                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                              October 19, 2011
                                                                   Report No.: AB6833

Operation Name                     Mali Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit
Region                             AFRICA
Country                            Mali
Sector                             General public administration sector (25%);General
                                   agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (25%);Public
                                   administration industry/trade (25%);Other social services
                                   (25%)
Operation ID                       P125866
Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                        THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
Implementing Agency                MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Date PID Prepared                  October 19, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal        January 18, 2012
Estimated Date of Board            April 30, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                   proceed with the preparation of the operation.
Other Decision {Optional}          Teams can add more if they wish or delete this row if no
                                   other decisions are added

I.     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Over the last 5 years the Malian economy has performed well, growing at an average 5 percent
per year. The country has benefited from strong economic management, a stable political
environment and a market-oriented policy framework. Poverty has fallen from 47.5 percent in
2006 and 43.6 percent in 2010, but the pace of growth and poverty reduction is not sufficient to
reach MDG goals, especially given the high rate of population growth. Furthermore, the
country remains vulnerable to internal and external shocks (global crisis, climatic, pests,
commodity prices, regional political instability) and its economic prospects are shadowed by a
poor investment climate and deficient infrastructure. Mali needs to redouble its efforts to
accelerate growth while providing more efficient and transparent services to its population. To
this end, the authorities are developing a third generation PRSP for 2012-2017.

The PRSC-6 will focus on supporting the new GPRSF of the country, with focus on
strengthening the regulatory and institutional environment for economic activity and
employment creation, mitigating vulnerability and improving service delivery to the population.
The government considers the Bank as a strong partner, and seeks its assistance to benefit from
the unique combination of technical and financial instruments to support its development goals.

This proposed PRSC series, including PRSC-6, is an integral part of the Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali as noted in the CAS Progress Report (CASPR) discussed at
the Board in April 2011. It contributes to the CAS objectives 1 (promote rapid and broad-based
growth) and 2 (strengthen public sector performance). It is also in line with CASPR’s mandate
that the third PRSC series focus on a limited set of multi-sectoral issues to catalyze policies for
faster growth, a more competitive economy with employment opportunities, better delivery of
basic services and protection of the vulnerable.

II.        Proposed Objective(s)

The development objectives of PRSC-6 are to:

       •   Improve the policy environment to promote competitiveness and employment
           opportunities, with an emphasis on improvement of business environment, support to
           diversify the agriculture sector, while finalizing cotton sector reforms; and to improve
           quality of service delivery at the university level.

       •   Strengthen institutional framework in health and social protection to mitigate the effects
           of and build resilience to internal and external shocks, with particular emphasis on
           strengthening the decentralization of resources to health districts and health centers;
           expanding health insurance coverage in the formal and informal sectors and provision of
           insurance coverage for the poor; and establishing an effective social safety net system.

       •   Strengthen the efficiency and transparency of public expenditures through improved
           internal controls at the country level, strengthened effectiveness of the supreme audit
           institution, and decentralization to improve budget performance and the quality of service
           delivery.

The overall objective of this third series of PRSCs, of which PRSC-6 is the first operation, is to
support implementation of Mali’s new GPRSF, expected to be adopted in December 2011 (2012-
2016). Specifically, the third PRSC series are expected to results in: (i) improved policy
environment to promote competitiveness and employment opportunities; and (ii) strengthened
basic social services to mitigate fragility and boost resilience. Improvements in public finance
management / governance are included as a transversal theme. The gender dimension of the
reform program is incorporated in the education and health / reproductive health reform series.

III.       Preliminary Description

The operation is the first of the third series of PRSCs. The operation includes 8 prior actions, of
which 5 target improvements in the policy environment for private sector activities (business
environment, agriculture diversification and educational training); 1 targets expansion of health
care insurance coverage and 2 target improvements in public finance management
(decentralization of the health sector budget and external control). The PRSC 6 program is in line
with the new GPRSF objectives and supports its policy objectives. It will be monitored and
evaluated within the framework of the Government’s program and as part of the framework of
the budget support group unified matrix.           Furthermore, its results matrix is selective and
contains indicators that can be obtained without additional costs to the authorities. Consultation
with other donors on the measures supported by the PRSC 6 has already been engaged.
IV.    Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts


The proposed PRSC-6 is expected to have a positive impact on poverty reduction. By improving
the business environment, supporting to agricultural diversification and improving quality of
service delivery and educational outcomes at the university level, PRSC-6 is expected to promote
opportunities for employment, income and poverty reduction. By expanding health insurance
coverage in the formal and informal sectors and provision of insurance coverage for the poor;
and establishing an effective social safety net system, PRSC-6 is expected to help build the
resilience of an important portion of the population to internal and external shocks. By
strengthening the decentralization of resources to health districts and health centers, the PRSC-6
is supporting better service delivery to the population. Finally, by supporting the strengthening
of the internal and external budget controls, PRSC-6 is working to ensure more transparent and
efficient use of public resources for public service delivery.

Environment Aspects

The specific reforms supported by the proposed PRSC series, and PRSC-6 specifically, are not
likely to have significant negative effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural
resources. The reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen institutional, regulatory and public
finance management at the national, regional and local government level. Nevertheless, the new
PRSC series cover certain aspects of improving the policy environment for agriculture (cotton,
irrigation). The overall Government reform agenda in this sector may have significant associated
environmental risks. Bank-supported investment projects in these areas are providing the
necessary support to enhance capacity to the address potential risks. Moreover, the Government
is establishing a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) procedure for ensuring
environmental mainstreaming in sectors.

V.     Tentative financing

Source:                                                                              ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                                                       0
International Development Association (IDA)                                            70
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specify)
                                                                      Total

VI.     Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Dorsati H. Madani
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-7925
Fax:
Email: Dmadani@worldbank.org
Borrower
Contact:
Title:
Tel:
Email:

VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
