                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00003170



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-52640)

                                ON A CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 33.4 MILLION
                       (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                    FOR A

                RECOVERY AND REFORM SUPPORT CREDIT




                                 June 25, 2014




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 4
Country Department AFCW3
Africa Region
                   GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2014)

                      Currency Unit = CFAF
                        US$1 = CFAF 482


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFDB      African Development Bank
AICE      Software for Integrated Public Accounting
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Data
BCEAO     Central Bank of West African States
CPPR      Country Portfolio Performance Review
CSCRP     Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
CDMT      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
CGSP      General Control Agency for Public Services
CREE      Electricity and Water Regulatory Commission
DP        Development Partners
DPO       Development Policy Operation
DNPD      National Directorate for Development Planning
ECF       Extended Credit Facility
ECOWAS    Economic Community of West African States
EDM       Electricity of Mali
ELIM      Integrated Light Household Survey
EU        European Union
FCFA      French CFA
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFS       Government Finance Statistics
GoM       Government of Mali
GPE       Global Partnership for Education
GPRSP     Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IDA       International Development Association
IFRS      International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF       International Monetary Fund
ISN       Interim Strategy Note
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
MEFB      Ministry of Economy, Finances and Budget
MISMA     African-led International Support Mission to Mali
MoA       Ministry of Agriculture
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
ODA       Official Development Assistance

                                ii
ON          Office of Niger
PAGAM-GFP   Action Plan for the Improvement and Modernization of Public
            Finance Management
PAP         Priority Action Plan
PAPAM       Fostering Agricultural Productivity Project
PAPU        Emergency Priority Action Plan
PEFA        Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PFM         Public Financial Management
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTF         Development Partners
RCF         Rapid Credit Facility
RRSC        Recovery and Reform Support Credit
SIGTAS      Standard Integrated Government Tax Administration System
SNA         System of National Accounts
SSN         Social Safety Nets
UEMOA       West African States Monetary Union
UN          United Nations
WAEMU       West African States Monetary Union (UEMOA)




                Vice President   :         Makhtar Diop
             Country Director    :         Paul Noumba Um
               Sector Director   :         Marcelo Giugale
              Sector Manager     :         Miria Pigato
            Task Team Leader     :         Sebastien Dessus
            ICR Team Leader      :         Cheikh Diop




                                     iii
                                                          REPUBLIC OF MALI

                                 RECOVERY AND REFORM SUPPORT CREDIT

                                                                  CONTENTS

DATA SHEET
A. BASIC INFORMATION ..................................................................................................................V
B. KEY DATES .................................................................................................................................V
C. RATINGS SUMMARY ...................................................................................................................V
D. SECTOR AND THEME CODES ......................................................................................................VI
E. BANK STAFF ...............................................................................................................................VI
F. RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS ........................................................................................... VII
G. RATINGS OF PROGRAM PERFORMANCE IN ISRS........................................................................IX
H. RESTRUCTURING (IF ANY) .........................................................................................................IX


1.   PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ................................................ 1
2.   KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES ................................................. 7
3.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES ..................................................................................................... 11
4.   ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME ................................................................ 20
5.   ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................... 20
6.   LESSONS LEARNED .................................................................................................................... 21
7.   COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES/PARTNERS .......... 22


ANNEX 1: BANK LENDING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT/SUPERVISION PROCESSES .............. 23
ANNEX 2: SELECTED ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS .................................................... 24
ANNEX 3: RESULTS FRAMEWORK .................................................................................................. 25
ANNEX 4: BENEFICIARY SURVEY RESULTS ................................................................................... 27
ANNEX 5: STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOP REPORT AND RESULTS ...................................................... 28
ANNEX 6: SUMMARY OF BORROWER’S ICR AND/OR COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR ........................ 29
ANNEX 7: COMMENTS OF COFINANCIERS AND OTHER PARTNERS/STAKEHOLDERS ..................... 31
ANNEX 8: LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ............................................................................... 32
ANNEX 9: MAP IBRD 133443 ....................................................................................................... 32




                                                                           iv
                                            DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                                 Mali: Recovery and Reform
Country                   Mali                        Program Name
                                                                                 Support Credit
Program ID                P125866                     L/C/TF Number(s)           IDA-52640
ICR Date                  1.26.2014                   ICR Type                   Core ICR
Lending Instrument        DPL                         Borrower                   GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Original Total Commitment XDR 33.40M                  Disbursed Amount           XDR 33.40M


Implementing Agencies
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners



B. Key Dates
                                                                                         Revised / Actual
       Process                Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review:           02/28/2013       Effectiveness:             12/04/2013             12/04/2013
Appraisal:                04/16/2013       Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 06/18/2013       Mid-term Review:
                                           Closing:                   12/31/2013             12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
 Overall Program Rating
Outcomes                                               Moderately satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                            Substantial
Bank Performance                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                                   Moderately satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
 Overall Program Rating
           Bank                   Ratings                 Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry                 Satisfactory      Government:                           Satisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Moderately Satisfactory                                  Moderately satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
                                                   Overall Borrower
Overall Bank Performance Moderately Satisfactory                                    Moderately satisfactory
                                                   Performance



                                                      v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
                                                 QAG Assessments (if
Implementation Performance           Indicators                               Rating:
                                                          any)
 Potential Problem Program at
                              No                Quality at Entry (QEA) None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any time                    Quality of Supervision
                              No                                       None
(Yes/No):                                       (QSA)
 DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status       Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                50                    50
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 13                    13
General industry and trade sector                                13                    13
Other social services                                            12                    12
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                     12                    12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public expenditure, financial management and procurement          44                   44
Other Private Sector Development                                  19                   19
Rural services and infrastructure                                 18                   18
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                           13                   13
Tax policy and administration                                      6                    6



E. Bank Staff
          Positions                                At ICR                At Approval
Vice President:                 Makhtar Diop                 Makhtar Diop
Country Director:               Paul Noumba Um               Ousmane Diagana
Sector Director:                Marcelo Giugale              Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                 Miria Pigato                 Miria Pigato
Task Team Leader:               Sebastien C. Dessus          Sebastien C. Dessus
ICR Team Leader:                Cheikh A. Diop
ICR Primary Author:             Cheikh A. Diop




                                                        vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Program Document)

The proposed stand-alone Development Policy Operation supports the authorities’ efforts to: (i)
deepen executive accountability; (ii) protect poverty reduction progress made in recent years;
and (iii) prepare for a rapid economic recovery as the political transition ends and the security
situation improves. While the credit would primarily translate into financing programs from the
Emergency Priority Action Plan 2013-14, particular attention is given to policy actions aimed at:
(i) strengthening controls on budget and transparency; (ii) protecting pro-poor expenditures; (iii)
restoring financial sustainability and investment capacity in power and irrigation sectors; and (iv)
improving public financial and investment management. The proposed operation fully shares the
objectives of the proposed World Bank Group’s Interim Strategy Note for FY14-15, and is
aligned with the World Bank’s Strategy for Africa.

PDO Indicators
                                                  Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                   Baseline         Values (from                           Achieved at
           Indicator                                                      Revised
                                    Value            approval                             Completion or
                                                                      Target Values
                                                    documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Quarterly budget execution reports produced using AICE
Value (number)     0                            2                                     3
Date achieved      12/31/2012                   12/31/2013                            12/31/2013
Comments           Budget execution repots for Q2, Q3 and Q4 were produced using the AICE
(incl. %           application.
achievement)
                   Internal audit reports in Ministries of Health and Education using a risk based
Indicator 2 :
                   approach
Value (number)     0                            2                                      4
Date achieved      12/31/2012                   12/31/2013                            12/31/2013
Comments
                   Audit reports were conducted using risk-based approach not only in Education and
(incl. %
                   Health sectors, but also in Agriculture sector and in Equipment and Transports.
achievement)
                   Compliance of procurement plans with budgetary allocations for health and
Indicator 3 :
                   education
Value (yes/no)     No                           yes                                   n.a
Date achieved      12/31/2012                   12/31/2014                            12/31/2013
Comments           The indicator was chosen from the result framework of the Government action plan
(incl. %           for Public finance reform (PAGAM). A mid-term evaluation of the PAGAM II was
achievement)       planned for 2013, but was not completed.
                   Certified year n-2 budget execution reports submitted to Parliament with Budget Law
Indicator 4 :
                   for year N
Value number)      0                            1                                     0
Date achieved      12/31/2012                   12/31/2013                            12/31/2013
Comments           This target will not be achieved; Failure stems from miscommunication between
(incl. %           authorities and staff. Staff was referring to N as the budget law year (in line with
achievement)       WAEMU directives) while authorities were referring to the year of submission to

                                                  vii
                    Parliament. In fact, Certified budget execution report for year 2011 was available at
                    end 2013.
                    Reports from national audit institutions published on the website of the national
Indicator 5 :
                    council of civil society organizations
Value (number)      0                           4                                     0
Date achieved       12/31/2012                  12/31/2013                            12/31/2013
                    The indicator was chosen from the result framework of the Government action plan
                    for Public finance reform (PAGAM). Most recent reports are not available on the
Comments
                    website of the National Council of Civil Society Organizations (CNSC). The CNSC
(incl. %
                    referred to logistical problems. Two reports are published on the respective websites
achievement)
                    of the two major external audit institutions (VEGAL, SCCS).

Indicator 6 :      Control of Corruption
Value (percentage) 32                          40                                      25
Date achieved      12/31/2011                  12/31/2014                              12/31/2012
                   The baseline was 36 in 2011. A p-rank of 40 is targeted for 2014 (corresponding to
                   the level observed in 2008). The latest available data indicate a p-rank of 25 as of
                   2012, suggesting a deterioration of the indicator. This deterioration in 2012 is not
Comments
                   surprising due to the military coup and subsequent institutional crises. Accounting for
(incl. %
                   policy actions undertaken to improve public finance management under the Brussels
achievement)
                   conference agenda, including the follow up at judiciary level of the reports from audit
                   institutions and the vote of the law on illicit enrichment, the indicator is likely to
                   improve in 2014.
Indicator 7 :      Share of priority pro-poor expenditure in GDP
Value
                   6                           6.5                                     6.4
(percentage)
Date achieved      12/31/2012                  12/31/2013                              12/31/2013
                   Based on most recent estimates of 2012 GDP, the baseline is 6.2. The target was not
Comments
                   fully met. However, it is important that the share of priority pro-poor expenditure in
(incl. %
                   GDP has increased accounting for the fact that GDP was especially low in 2012 due
achievement)
                   to the crisis.
Indicator 8 :      Share of pro-poor expenditure benefiting the two poorest quintiles
Value
                                               40
(percentage)
Date achieved                                  12/31/2015
Comments
                   The source of verification is a benefit incidence analysis to be based on forthcoming
(incl. %
                   ELIM survey.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      Share of investment projects in the PIP selected by the selection committee
Value (percentage) 0                           50%                                      100%
Date achieved      12/31/2012                  12/31/2013                              12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           As reported by the selection committee.
achievement)




                                                   viii
                   Share of investment project in the budget law submitted to Parliament selected by the
Indicator 10 :
                   selection committee
Value (percentage) 0                           100                                    n.a
Date achieved      12/31/2012                  12/31/2015                             12/30/2013
                   The target is on track to be met at end 2015. The selection Committee has been
Comments
                   formally set up in 2013 and a budget line was created in the 2014 budget law to
(incl. %
                   finance its activity. The Committee has endorsed the objective of reviewing a priori
achievement)
                   all the investment projects to be proposed for 2015 budget.
                   Land titles delivered to private entrepreneurs through the financial mechanism for
Indicator 11 :
                   irrigation in ONA
Value (number)     0                           1                                       0
Date achieved      12/31/2012                  12/31/2015                             12/31/2013
Comments           The extension of irrigated surfaces in the Office du Niger area is set as a priority in
(incl. %           the current government’s action plan. However, the financial mechanism is not yet
achievement)       operational.
Indicator 12 :     Irrigated surface by the financial mechanism for irrigation in ONA
Value (hectare(ha) 0                           2500 ha                                 0
Date achieved      12/31/2012                  12/31/2017                             12/31/2013
Comments
                   The government action plan sets the target at 100,000 ha by 2018. Hence, 2500 ha by
(incl. %
                   2017 may still be on track.
achievement)
Indicator 13 :     Operational subsidies to EDM over GDP
Value (percentage) 0.6                         0.4                                     1.1
Date achieved      12/31/2012                  12/31/2013                             12/31/2013
                   In 2013, direct subsidies to the state-owned electricity utility (EDM, Electricité du
Comments           Mali) amounted to FCFA 40 billion (or 0.7% of GDP). To this amount was added
(incl. %           FCFA 17.5 billion through the writing off of tax debts accumulated by EDM. These
achievement)       subsidies compensate for large operational losses (FCFA 38.6 billion in 2013) despite
                   the increase by 7% of electricity rates on average, as of February 1, 2013.
Indicator 14 :     Connections to electricity grid
Value (number)     261,000                     300,000                                303,920
Date achieved      12/31/2011                  12/31/2015                             12/31/2012
Comments
                   The target set for 2013 is already met. EDM plans about 25,000 connections per year
(incl. %
                   going forward.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

No.     Date ISR archived      DO                     IP                     Actual
                                                                             disbursements
                                                                             (US$ millions)
1       12/31/2013             Moderately             Moderately             0.0
                               satisfactory           satisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not applicable

                                                    ix
1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      In 2013, Mali was emerging from the most severe crisis of its history. Mali has
experienced conflict on a regular basis since independence in 1960. Yet, the northern rebellion
starting in January 2012 and the March coup have resulted in unprecedented levels of insecurity
and political and social fragility. The coup of March 22, 2012 took place in a country with a
strong democratic record in which two non-violent democratic transfers of power have taken
place during the past 20 years, and was ready to organize a third one. The crisis was triggered by
a combination of recent developments linked to the revolution in Libya and the associated return
of fighters and spreading of weapons, as well as growing social tensions, the presence of
criminal networks and terrorist groups, and the collapse of the army following the coup d’état.
Yet, it should primarily be seen as a manifestation of long-standing problems in Mali’s
governance and social structures, which were aggravated by a combination of internal and
external pressures.

2.      Prompted by a strong mobilization of the international community, constitutional
order was progressively restored. On April 2012, an agreement was reached with the military
Junta that resulted in the nomination of an interim President tasked to hold elections in 40 days.
Failure to achieve this objective (in the face of political disagreements) led to the formation of a
national unity government on August 20 2012. In January 2013, the Malian army benefited from
the support of an UN-mandated coalition of foreign troops to restore sovereignty over the entire
Malian territory. By end January 2013, Malian authorities adopted a roadmap that emphasizes
the two main goals of the government of transition: (i) to restore sovereignty over the entire
territory of Mali, and (ii) to organize fair and transparent national elections in 2013. The
adoption of the roadmap has made it possible to re-engage most bilateral development partners,
especially European Union (EU) member countries. By March 2013, major international
organizations – including the IMF, African Development Bank (AFDB) and UN bodies – had
resumed their operations and programs in Mali.

3.      The political and security crisis has had a severe economic and social impact,
through the strong reduction of ODA and the deterioration of the security situation. ODA
disbursements were cut by FCFA 300 billion in 2012 compared with 2011, strongly affecting
demand for investment goods and services, construction in particular. The deterioration of the
security situation mainly impacted tourism (both in Southern and Northern parts of the country)
and the livelihood of Northern populations. Tourism, which brought in foreign currency receipts
of FCFA 150 billion in 2011 (3 percent of GDP), was brought to a standstill after the coup of
March 2012. Besides tourism and administration, other economic activities (mainly trade,
livestock, and rice cultivation) in the North were severely disrupted with about 31 percent of the
northern population being displaced (including civil servants and their families redeployed to the
South). Fortunately the economy also benefited in 2012 from improved terms of trade and very
good climatic conditions. All in all, Mali’s real GDP was stable in 2012 through the combination
of positive and negative developments discussed above. But declining per capita incomes and




                                                 1
displacement of populations led the bank to estimate that, by end 2012, the poverty rate had
increased to 46% of the population, up from 44% a year before.

4.     Faced by the reduced financing opportunities, the government responded with fiscal
austerity. The government managed its budget in 2012 by offsetting the loss of revenue with
expenditure cuts, especially public investment. This fiscal austerity was maintained in the budget
law adopted for 2013, on which the operation under review was built. And while social
expenditures remained protected relative to fiscal revenues, they nonetheless also suffered in
absolute and per capita terms. Meanwhile, authorities continued to honor external debt service in
spite of the suspension of aid programs, with a view to facilitate a quick re-engagement of
donors when political conditions would allow. These efforts notwithstanding, the government
could not prevent emergence of external debt service arrears in an amount of $58 million by end-
 2012, as well as the accumulation of some domestic expenditure arrears (which were, by June
2014, still being audited).

5.      Prior to the crisis, Mali adopted its third Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (CSCRP-3), for the period 2012-17. The CSCRP-3 aims at promoting shared growth
and equitable access to quality social services, and at supporting institutional development, under
the prerequisites of peace, security and macro-economic stability. The Priority Action Plan
(PAP) listed the programs to be implemented in support of the CSRP-3 objectives, for a total
cost of FCFA 9,744 billion over the 6 year period.1 The implementation of the GCSRP-3 hardly
started in 2012 as the political and security crisis erupted. Accounting for limited available
financial resources in 2013-14, the transition Government selected from the PAP a subset of
programs initially envisaged to be implemented in 2012-13. This set of programs regrouped
under the Emergency Priority Action Plan 2013-14 (PAPU) aimed in priority at preventing the
deterioration of human development indicators. As such, sectors covered under the PAPU
included security, education, health, social protection, employment, rural development and
public financial management.

6.     The Bank continued to support the urgent needs of the Malian people throughout
the crisis. In accordance with the relevant Operational Policy (OP 7.30 on Dealing with De
Facto Governments), the Bank temporarily suspended disbursements and lending activities,
immediately following the military coup, until the reinstatement of an internationally recognized
government. A gradual re-engagement was initiated after an assessment mission in June 2012,
followed by a fiduciary assessment in August 2012. A Country Portfolio Performance Review
(CPPR) was also conducted in December 2012. The Portfolio Review helped identify gaps in the
ongoing program and activities to be restructured in light of the new country priorities. In the
course of FY13, four new operations have been prepared on a fast track basis for a total of
US$180 million including new operations in education, agriculture, safety nets and the budget
support operation under review. The Bank also launched the preparation of an Interim Strategy
Note (ISN) for FY14-15, which was presented to the Board along with the budget support
operation under review. The proposed ISN program aimed to both rapidly provide support to
meet the needs of populations across the country and initiate new activities to better address
long-term governance challenges.

1
 See Mali Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Third Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, World
Bank and International Monetary Fund, April 2013, Washington D.C.


                                                    2
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.      The objective of the one-tranche Recovery and Reform Support Credit (RRSC) was
to support the authorities’ efforts to (i) deepen executive accountability, (ii) protect poverty
reduction progress made in recent years, and (iii) prepare for a rapid economic recovery as
the political transition ends and the security situation improves. Particular attention was
given to the policy actions aimed at (i) strengthening controls on budget and transparency, (ii)
protecting pro-poor expenditures, (iii) restoring financial sustainability and investment capacity
in power and irrigation sectors, and (iv) improving public financial and investment management.

Key outcome indicators (as approved)

Four outcomes were expected from this operation, and they were captured through 6 medium
term outcome indicators completed by 8 intermediary output indicators in the results framework.

Outcome 1: controls on budget and transparency are strengthened

   (i) Compliance of procurement plans with budgetary allocations has improved in the Ministry of
       Health and the Ministry of Education;
   (ii) Control of corruption indicator has improved.


Outcome 2: pro-poor expenditures are protected

   (i) Share of priority pro-poor expenditure benefiting poorest quintiles has increased.

Outcome 3: financial sustainability and investment capacity in power and irrigation sectors
are being restored

   (i) Surface of irrigated land financed by the mechanism for irrigation for the office du Niger
       area has increased;
   (ii) Number of connections to the EDM grid has increased.
Outcome 4: public financial and investment management has improved

   (i) Share of public investment projects retained in the budget laws submitted to the National
       Assembly which were reviewed and selected by the unique selection committee for public
       investment has increased.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

N/A

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

Policy area 1: Deepening Executive Accountability


                                                   3
Accounting and Financial Reporting: In this area the objective of the RRSC was to encourage
the implementation of a computerized system to centralize fiscal data, from commitments to
accounting entries. This would improve the quality of internal controls and budget execution
reporting, reduce the time required to produce annual financial statements and balance sheets
and strengthen the role of the Budget Execution Law.

8.      PFM measures supported by the RRSC are part of the ongoing Action Plan for the
Improvement and Modernization of Public Finance Management (PAGAM/GFP II)2. As
part of PAGAM II, the need was stressed to integrate the accounting information system to allow
full automation of the expenditure cycle. Such a system would ensure reliability and integration
of an information system of budget execution. It would also allow exchanging real-time
information on the different stages of credit management, money orders and payments. As the
first phase of this reform, the Integrated Application of Accounting of the State – AICE – was
implemented at the Paymaster General of the Treasury, which handled 80% of state spending in
January 2011. The second phase of deployment of the application AICE concerns revenue
management and its accounting. The achievement of the interface of AICE with management
applications for tax revenues (SIGTAS) and customs (ASYCUDA), covering all transactions at
the central government level, was considered a prior action for the RRSC.

Internal audit controls: The objective in this area was to strengthen the effectiveness and
efficiency of the internal audit system in monitoring the budget execution trough improving audit
methods and risk assessment techniques, using education and health as pilot-sectors.

9.      In Mali, internal audit functions are carried out by several entities spread out in the
administrative framework. The most important are the Contrôleur General des Services Publics
(CGSP, General Control Agency for Public Services), operating under the authority of the Prime
Minister; the General Inspectorate of Finance and the Financial Control Directorate under the
authority of the Ministry of Finance. There are also various Internal Audit departments in Line
Ministries. The complexity of the institutional framework and the lack of formal coordination
and communication between internal audit bodies contributed to increase the redundancy risk
and undermined the effectiveness and efficiency of internal audit reviews. In the face of it, the
Government decided to strengthen the effectiveness of the internal audit spelled out in the
National strategy for internal controls. As part of this strategy, the CGSP adopted a risk- based
approach for internal controls and piloted its implementation in the Ministries of Health and
Education. The implementation of the pilot phase was a RRSC prior action.

External Audits and Parliamentary Oversight: The objective in this area was to strengthen the
external oversight of budget execution by improving the timeliness of budget execution reports
and Budget Review Acts (“Lois de Réglement”) to the Assembly and the legal opinions on it from
the Audit Section of the Supreme Court (“Section des Comptes”).
2
   The first action plan (PAGAM/GFP I) for the period 2007-10 was adopted in April 2005. It was intended to
improve and modernize its public financial management system. The plan was centered on (i) improving the quality
of budget preparation and execution; (ii) enhancing the effectiveness of tax and financial administrations; (iii)
incorporating external financing into national budgetary procedures; (iv) increasing the effectiveness and
transparency of public procurement procedures; and (v) strengthening governance through enhancing accountability,
transparency and participation.



                                                       4
10.      Like internal audits, external audits have remained weak as stressed in the different
PEFA reports. In Mali, external oversight is carried out by two major institutions: the Accounts
Section of the Supreme Court, which is rooted in the constitution, and the Office of Auditor
General (called Bureau du Verificateur General, BVG). The Accounts Section is Mali’s Supreme
Audit Institution and is the only one with the power to sanction acts of misuse of public funds.
The government has committed itself to transform the Accounts Section into an independent
Court of Accounts. But, such transformation could only be done through a referendum. In the
shorter run, the Government is committed to enhance the capacity of the Accounts Section to
accelerate the judgment of public accounts while improving the timeliness of budget execution
reports and Budget Review Acts (“Lois de Réglement”) to the Assembly. In this respect, the
RRSC prior action concerned the transmission to the National Assembly of the budget execution
reports for fiscal years 2010 and 2011, and the legal opinion on the budget execution report for
fiscal year 2010.

Transparency: The objective in this area was to improve budget transparency and strengthen
executive accountability, in conformity with WAEMU PFM regulations (“Directives”) to be
transposed in national legislations.

11.     Despite the progress reported by 2011 PEFA regarding budget transparency, much
remained to be done to meet international standards and conform to WAEMU guidelines.
As part of WAEMU’s guidelines to be translated in national legislations, the transparency code
notably clarifies the institutional responsibilities, format and frequency for the publication of
information related to budget preparation and execution (central and local levels), audits, public
contracts and procurement, and public private partnerships. The Transparency code also
stipulates legal obligations for officials to frequently declare their assets, and to denounce any
fraud in the management of public resources they could be made aware of by their official
functions. Submission to the National Assembly of the transparency code following its adoption
by Cabinet was considered a prior action for the RRSC.

Policy area 2: Protecting Poverty Reduction Gains

The objective in this area was to increase the share of priority pro-poor expenditure3 in the 2013
budget compared to the previous year, with a view to prioritize social spending and protect per
capita basic service delivery under the exceptional circumstances that called for an increase in
military spending while financial resources remained limited.

12.     Until 2011, the Malian government had maintained a concerted effort to improve
social sector expenditures in line with the priorities of its poverty reduction strategy. The
March 2012 coup d’état and its aftermath hurt the economy and added to the stress from the poor
2011 harvest which put close to 4 million people (or 27 percent of the population) in a situation
of food insecurity. In 2011 the pro-poor expenditure executed in Mali’s budget amounted to
FCFA 360 billion (7.2 percent of GDP, 28.9 percent of actual total expenditure). In 2012,
however, the Government was only able to spend FCFA 313 billion (6.0 percent of GDP and
29.8 percent of actual total expenditure). Through its Budget Law 2013, the Government

3
 Priority pro-poor public expenditures in Mali comprise all domestically-financed public expenditures for education
(basic, secondary and tertiary), health, and social sectors.


                                                        5
committed to increase the share of priority pro-poor expenditures to total expenditure in
comparison with the Budget Law 2012. This budget allocation was considered a prior action for
the RRSC.

Policy area 3: Preparing for the Economic Recovery

Public Investment Management: The objective in this area was to improve public investment
selection, implementation and evaluation by formally establishing a selection committee for
public investment projects.

13.     Recent PFM studies pointed out the weaknesses in projects preparation and
selection as a major obstacle not only to public investment effectiveness and efficiency, but
also to budget execution in Mali. A review of Mali’s public investment management conducted
in 2012 had recommended the formal establishment of a selection committee for public
investment projects as a first essential step in the improvement of the public investment
management framework. Further steps would include: (i) the creation of a fund to finance
feasibility studies and ex-post evaluations, and (ii) the constitution of a bank of projects to be
budgeted when financing becomes available. The formal establishment of the selection
committee would consolidate its institutional authority, mandate and capacity, and mainstream
the focus on project preparation. The ministerial instruction formally establishing the selection
committee was a prior action for the RRSC.

Irrigation financial Scheme: the objective in this area was to increase agricultural productivity
and reduce vulnerability to weather-related shocks by encouraging the exploitation of irrigable
lands under the control of Office du Niger.

14. Institutional reforms to enable increased private investments in the Office du Niger
area have long been delayed despite the crucial needs and donors’ support. A program and
cartography of public and private investments for the ON zone during the 2008-12 Plan was
approved by the ON Board in 2009. A participatory mid-term review of the plan was carried out
in 2010, to build a shared vision for the development of Mali irrigation resources among
government, large private investors, producers’ organizations and donors. As part of this strategy,
an irrigation funding mechanism for Office du Niger area was designed in order to attract private
investments, enhance focus on producer’s participation and co-financing including the
involvement of the banking sector. As a prior action, the RRSC supported the adoption by the
Government of this financial mechanism comprising the establishment of the land management
agency and the irrigation fund.

Electricity Tariffs: The objective in this area was to promote the recovery of the financial
equilibrium of the national electricity company (EDM), a prerequisite to revive investment in the
sector, ensuring access and the quality of electricity service supply.

15.    Nominal electricity tariffs were lower in January 2013 than in 2003, in spite of the
considerable inflation in costs over the period. This failure to pursue cost recovering tariffs
has put the finances of the sector in an unsustainable position. As a result, since 2006, new
investments have increasingly been financed with GoM support. This support has however



                                                6
become insufficient to prevent further deterioration of EDM’s cash position and short term debt
situation. A strategic vision note on tariffs and subsidies was adopted in March 2009, indicating
that EDM’s financial equilibrium could be reached in 2011. The Government also finalized a
restructuring plan for EDM, which would be implemented with support from a Bank-financed
project. Absent an effective implementation of the different plans and strategy, the GoM has
been subsidizing EDM operational expenses in order to allow the utility to purchase enough fuel
to run its plant and meet electricity demand. Aware of the heavy burden that subsidies impose to
the fiscal framework, the Government committed to have electricity operation costs and
investment plans increasingly financed by consumers. A first step in this respect was a tariff
adjustment that was considered a prior action for the RRSCC.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas: N/A

1.6 Other significant changes: N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

16.    The RRSC was designed as a stand-alone Development Policy Operation. It was
approved on June 18, 2013. The credit became effective on December 4, 2013 and was closed on
December, 31, 2013. There were 8 prior actions for the stand alone operation (see Table 1
below). All the prior actions were met before negotiations.




                                               7
                                         Table 1: Prior actions
                                       ACTIONS                                         STATUS
      Deepening Executive Accountability
      The Recipient’s Ministry of Economy, Finances and Budget installs the
      AICE software and its interface with management applications for tax
  1   revenues (SIGTAS) and customs data (ASYCUDA), covering all Central
      Government Transactions as to integrate the management of tax and customs         Met.
      revenues in the Recipient’s accounting information system.

      The Recipient, through the Contrôleur General des Services Publics, adopts a
  2   risk-based approach for internal controls in the Ministry of Health and the
                                                                                        Met.
      Ministry of Education.

      The Recipient adopts and transmits to the National Assembly the budget
  3   execution reports for fiscal years 2010 and 2011, and the legal opinion on the
                                                                                        Met.
      budget execution report for fiscal year 2010.

      The Recipient, through the Council of Ministers, adopts the Budget
  4
      Transparency Code and submits it to the National Assembly.                        Met.

      Protecting Poverty Reduction Gains

      The Recipient increases the share of priority pro-poor expenditures to total
  5   expenditure through the Budget Law 2013 in comparison with the Budget             Met.
      Law 2012.

      Preparing for the Economic Recovery

      The Recipient, through the Ministry of Economy, Finances and Budget
  6
      establishes a selection committee for public investment projects.                 Met.

      The Recipient, through the Council of Ministers, adopts a new financial
  7
      mechanism for irrigation for the office du Niger area.                            Met.

      The Recipient, through the Commission de Regulation de l’Electricité et de
  8   L’Eau, adopts and implements the automatic electricity tariff adjustment
                                                                                        Met.
      mechanism.



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:

17.     Adequacy of government’s commitment. The Government was strongly committed to
maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework and sound fiscal management. The transition
authorities were committed to pursuing the reform agenda in PFM, protecting the most
vulnerable populations and preparing economic recovery with the support of the donor
community. Despite the suspension of ODA, the framework for joint budget reviews was
maintained as well as the PRSP review. The increase of electricity tariffs in a crisis period was
the most emblematic illustration of the government’s commitment to move forward with reforms.



                                                      8
Notwithstanding the authorities commitment, presidential and legislatives elections were
scheduled to take place by mid and end 2013 respectively.

18.    Soundness of background analysis. Most of the analytical underpinnings were
undertaken before the political crisis and aimed at informing the preparation of the PRSP 2012-
2017. These include the Education (#59108-ML) and Health (#70614-ML) country status reports
of 2010 and 2011; the review (#53222-ML) of social safety nets of 2011, the Investment Climate
Assessment of 2011, and several PFM reviews designed to adjust the PAGAM/ GFP II. With the
impact of the crisis and a medium term outlook, various re-engagement notes had been prepared
by Bank staff in addition to continuous economic and poverty monitoring.

19.     Risk analysis. Given the fluidity of the political and security situation at appraisal, major
emphasis was put on risk analysis and mitigation. Beyond structural vulnerabilities related to
climatic conditions and commodity price shocks, the analysis insisted on security, political and
fiduciary risks. The military conflict in the North and the presence of extremist armed groups
could heighten security risks in the South, with potential negative implication on the focus and
time required for the Government to implement the reform program supported by the proposed
operation. As for political risk, opposition to reforms could be strengthened by the proximity of
elections while fiduciary risks stemmed from the exceptional circumstances of budget execution
with priorities shifted to Defense and Security. Implementation risks due to low government
capacity were assessed as moderate and such risks could be mitigated through the strong country
office presence and close dialogue with authorities, as well as the technical assistance in the
sectors of public financial management, energy, and agriculture provided by the World Bank and
other donors.

20.     Mali’s strong track record in macroeconomic management and the conclusion of a
program with IMF under the Rapid Credit Facility could mitigate the risk on economic and fiscal
management. More generally, continued macroeconomic monitoring and dialogue with
authorities (at the national and regional levels, through WAEMU in particular) would help
manage the impact of exogenous shocks on budget execution and service delivery. Fiduciary
risks would be mitigated through the measures supported by the operation in the area of PFM,
especially on audit and controls, budget execution and budget transparency. There was less
certainty on potential mitigation measures with respect to security and political risks.

21.     Almost all the above mention risks came to materialize and did affect the outcome of the
operation despite mitigation measures. With respect to structural vulnerabilities there were
severe exogenous shocks that affected the level of production and terms of trade, resulting in
lower growth and fiscal revenues than expected. The macroeconomic framework described as
mitigation mechanism did ensure sound budget execution and protection of service delivery (pro-
poor expenditures as a share of GDP has increased) with low fiscal deficit and inflation.
Security risks are still very important in relation to the military conflict in the North, with a
negative impact on the focus on long term development objectives. As for political risks,
opposition to reforms materialized in the electricity sector, translating into higher government
subsidies in 2013 and delayed tariffs adjustment in 2014. Fiduciary risks did also materialized
despite mitigation measures, as revealed by recent governance issues surrounding the purchase
of a presidential plane and other military expenditures. Implementation risks arose from higher



                                                 9
than expected government instability. Overall, the risks analysis was particularly accurate and is
still relevant, calling for enhanced mitigation measures.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

22.     M&E design. Experience from the implementation of previous operations was taken into
account to favor a streamlined but strong multi-sectoral monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
framework. The quality and reliability of data to measure outcomes are limited in Mali.
Therefore, the RRSC results framework attempted to focus on parsimony and criticality of
indicators. The operation used indicators and targets that were chosen and agreed to jointly with
the authorities, to ensure ownership and monitoring without imposing additional costs to the
Government. In the area of public financial management, most of the indicators were derived
from the PAGAM results framework. In the area concerned with the preparation for economic
recovery, however, the identification of results indicators measurable in the short term was more
difficult due to the fact that policy actions entailed structural reforms which would not translate
into immediate outcomes. Ex-post, the results framework may appear optimistic. Targets could
have been set at lower level. Given the major crisis that occurred in 2012, one could expect a
slow pace of recovery and weak government capacity to implement reforms. One the other hand,
the fact that a transition government was able to complete all prior actions including in the most
challenging areas was seen as a signal of a new momentum for reforms. Moderately
Satisfactory

23.    M&E implementation. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) was responsible
for overall coordination of program implementation and for overseeing progress in achieving
program objectives. The monitoring of outcomes was expected to be carried out within the M&E
framework of the PAGAM GFP II, the joint budget review and the PRSP review framework. In
addition to these reviews, a new M&E emerged to monitor the mutual commitment resulting
from the May, 2013 Brussels Conference4. However, these mechanisms still lack a solid results
framework for efficient monitoring. Moderately Satisfactory

24.     M&E utilization. The Bank monitored program implementation through supervision
missions and related aide-memoires, and the implementation status and results reports (ISR)
were issued in December 2013. The M&E system was successful in ensuring the achievements
of prior actions, but less effective with respect to the results framework.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall M&E: Moderately Satisfactory

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):

25.   In line with the ISN 2013-2015, a programmatic series of two DPOs is under
preparation as a follow-up to the RRSC stand-alone operation. The programmatic series will

4
 At the May 15, 2013 Brussels conference on Mali Reconstruction, donors pledged over 4 billion dollars in support
of the Sustainable Recovery Plan presented by Malian authorities. The Government of Mali and donors agreed to
organize a quarterly review of their mutual commitments.


                                                       10
support the authorities’ efforts to (i) strengthen executive accountability and transparency and (ii)
improve public expenditure efficiency as the political transition ends and the security situation
improves.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

       Relevance of objectives

26.     The objectives of the RRSC are relevant to the country’s needs and priorities as
translated in the different strategy documents adopted since 2011. In particular, the operation
was fully aligned and supported policy reform elements in at least two key objectives of the
Government’s growth and poverty reduction framework (GPRSF III) for 2012-2017: (i)
strengthening of the foundations for long-term development and equitable access to quality
social services and (ii) supporting institutional development and governance. Two prerequisites
for achieving these two objectives are the reinforcement of peace and security and a stable
macroeconomic framework, including sound public financial management. The operation was
also fully aligned with the objectives of the ISN to (i) lay the foundations for longer term
accountability and stability, (ii) protect human capital and build resilience, and (iii) prepare the
conditions for economic recovery. Recent developments discussed in the risks section suggest
that the reform areas supported by the operation are still very relevant. In the area of governance,
supporting policy actions to deepen executive accountability, promote transparency and fight
against corruption is essential. Protecting pro-poor budget allocations in the face of growing
military expenditures sounds like a necessity, while the recovery plan in the electricity sector
require a sustained attention to be completed. As illustrated by the volatility of rain-dependent
agricultural production scaling up the irrigation area is also key to building Mali’s economic
resilience.

Rating: Satisfactory

       Relevance of design

27.     The design of the RRSC took into account lessons drawn from the Implementation
Completion and Results Report (ICR) for the first (1-2) and second (3-5) PRSC series, in
particular the criticality of government commitment and the capacity constraints. Hence, greater
realism and selectivity guided the policy reforms targeted for support. In addition the RRSC was
designed as a stand-alone operation, which was the most appropriate formula given the post-
crisis and pre-electoral context that was prevailing. Yet, the operation has targeted structural
reforms in areas such as energy and irrigation that are crucial for the country’s long term
development, where critical reforms had been delayed for several years. Notwithstanding the
long term approach, a stand-alone operation looked appropriate to support the urgent need of
financial support while accounting for high uncertainty with respect to the political and security
situation.

Rating: Satisfactory


                                                 11
        Relevance of implementation

28.     The operation was prepared on a fast-track basis combined with strong donor
coordination, which provided very consistent support to the government facing multiple
priorities. It also helped reinvigorate the agenda of reform following a slowdown in 2012. From
the approval by the Board in May 2013, the implementation was however hampered due to
higher than expected government turnover including at the Ministry of finance, which resulted in
significant delays towards effectiveness.

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Relevance: Moderately Satisfactory

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives

Overall Achievement of the PDO:

                Table 2: Anticipated Results and Actual Outcomes of the PCRRG

    Anticipated result                     Intermediate output                  Medium term outcome
    Deepening Executive Accountability

    Intermediate output
    Increased number of quarterly          The Ministry of Finance published
    budget execution reports produced      quarterly budget execution reports
    using the AICE (2013). Baseline        (Q2, Q3, Q4) using AICE software
1
    (2012): 0; target (2013): 2 (Source:   and its interface with management
    MEFB).                                 applications for tax revenues
                                           (SIGTAS) and customs data
                                           (ASYCUDA). Met.


    Intermediate output
    Increased number of internal audit     Audit reports were conducted using
    reports in Ministries of Health and    risk-based approach not only in
    Education using the adopted risk-      Education and Health sectors, but
    based approach. Baseline (2012):       also in Agriculture sector and in
    0; target (2013): 2 (Source:           Equipment and Transports. Met.
    CGSP).

2
    Medium term outcome                                                         The indicator is not available, as
    Improved compliance of                                                      the mid-term evaluation of the
    procurement plans with budgetary                                            PAGAM II was not finalized.
    allocations in the Ministry of                                              As part of a reform package
    Health and the Ministry of                                                  supported by a proposed new DPO
    Education. Baseline (2012): n.a.;                                           series, the Government has adopted
    target (2014): 100% (Source:                                                in March, 2013 a number of
    PAGAM indicator).                                                           measures aimed at reducing
                                                                                procurement delays. These include



                                                         12
    Anticipated result                     Intermediate output                     Medium term outcome
                                                                                   the possibility to launch public
                                                                                   procurement plans from the
                                                                                   submission of the Budget Law to
                                                                                   the National Assembly and the
                                                                                   establishment of an inter-
                                                                                   ministerial monitoring and
                                                                                   evaluation mechanism for public
                                                                                   procurement. Such measures do
                                                                                   support the achievement of the
                                                                                   medium term outcome.

    Intermediate output
    Budget execution reports of Year       The draft budget execution law for
    N-2 certified by the audit section     2012 was adopted by the
    of the Supreme Court submitted to      Government in December 2013.
    National Assembly with Budget          Certification by the Audit Section
    Law for Year N.                        of the Supreme Court and
                                           submission to the National
                                           Assembly are planned for 2014. In
                                           November 2013, the Audit Section
3
                                           (Section des Comptes) published
                                           for the first time since creation its
                                           Annual Report, including its legal
                                           opinion on budget execution
                                           reports for 2005-2010. Certified
                                           budget execution report for year
                                           2011 was produced in 2013 and the
                                           corresponding law was adopted by
                                           the new Parliament in 2014.
                                           Partially met.

    Intermediate output
    Increased number of reports from       Most recent reports are not
    national audit entities (Bureau du     available on the website of the
    Vérificateur General, Section des      National Council of Civil Society
    Comptes de la Cour Suprême,            Organizations (CNSC). The CNSC
    Contrôle General des Services          referred to logistical problems.
    Publics, Inspection des Finances)      Two reports are published on the
    published on the website of the        respective websites of the two
    national council of civil society      major external audit institutions
    organizations (Conseil National de     (VEGAL, SCCS). Not met.
    la Société Civile). Baseline (2012):
4
    0 ;target (2013): 4 (source:
    PAGAM indicator)

    Medium term outcome
    Control of corruption improved as
    measured by a p-rank of 40                                                     The latest available data indicate a
    (2014).                                                                        p-rank of 25 as of 2012, suggesting
                                                                                   a deterioration of the indicator.
                                                                                   This deterioration in 2012 is not
                                                                                   surprising due to the military coup
                                                                                   and subsequent institutional crisis.
                                                                                   Accounting for policy actions


                                                          13
    Anticipated result                    Intermediate output                   Medium term outcome
                                                                                undertaken to improve public
                                                                                finance management under the
                                                                                Brussels conference agenda,
                                                                                including the follow up at judiciary
                                                                                level of the reports from audit
                                                                                institutions and the forthcoming
                                                                                vote of the law on illicit
                                                                                enrichment, the indicator was
                                                                                expected to improve in 2014.
                                                                                However, given recent governance
                                                                                issues raised by media, the outcome
                                                                                is uncertain.

    Protecting Poverty reduction gains


    Intermediate output
    Share of priority pro-poor            Share of priority pro-poor
    expenditure in GDP increased to       expenditure in GDP is slightly
    6.5 % in 2013.                        below the target. However, the
                                          government has managed to
                                          increase pro-poor expenditure in a
                                          context of budget constraints and
                                          rising military expenditure. From
                                          28.6% of total public expenditure
                                          in 2011, priority pro-poor
5
                                          expenditures increased to 31.4%
                                          and 32.9% in 2012 and 2013.
                                          Partially met.


    Medium term outcome                                                         The source of verification is a
    40% of priority pro poor                                                    benefit incidence analysis to be
    expenditure benefiting the two                                              based on forthcoming ELIM or
    poorest quintiles in 2015                                                   EMOP survey. The target is to be
                                                                                met in 2015.

    Preparing for the Economic Recovery

    Intermediate output
    Increased share of public             The Selection Committee reported
    investment projects retained in the   that it selected all the investment
    Public Investment Plan which          projects retained in the 3-year
    were reviewed and selected by the     public investment plan 2014-16. In
    unique selection committee for        the 2014 budget law, the
6   public investment. Baseline           government has provisioned an
    (2012): 0%; target (2013): 50%.       allocation to finance feasibility
    (Source: MEFB).                       studies and ex-post evaluations to
                                          be carried out by the selection
                                          Committee. Met




                                                        14
    Anticipated result                    Intermediate output                     Medium term outcome
    Medium term outcome
    Increased share of public                                                     In the 2014 budget law, the
    investment projects retained in the                                           government has provisioned an
    budget laws submitted to the                                                  allocation to finance feasibility
    National Assembly which were                                                  studies and ex-post evaluations to
    reviewed and selected by the                                                  be carried by the selection
    unique selection committee for                                                Committee. The indicator will be
    public investment. Baseline                                                   assessed with respect to the budget
    (2012): 0%; target (2015): 100%.                                              law 2015 to be adopted by end
    (Source: MEFB).                                                               2014.


    Intermediate output
    Land titles delivered to private      The extension of irrigated surfaces
    entrepreneurs by the structure in     in the Office du Niger area is set as
    charge of the financing               priority in the current government’s
    mechanism. Baseline (2013):0,         action plan. However, the financial
    target (2015): 1 (Source: MoA).       mechanism is not yet operational.
                                          Not met.



    Medium term outcome
    Increased surface of irrigated land                                           The Government’s Action Plan
    financed by the mechanism.                                                    adopted by the new Malian
    Baseline (2013): 0 ha; target                                                 Authorities have among other
    (2017): 2,500 ha (Source: MoA).                                               priorities making Mali an
                                                                                  agricultural exporting champion by
                                                                                  2018. To this end, the Plan sets as
                                                                                  target the doubling of irrigated
                                                                                  areas (from 98,531 ha) by 2018.
                                                                                  The target of 2500 ha is to be met
                                                                                  in 2017.


    Intermediate output
    Reduced Government Subsidies          Tariffs were increased on average
    for EDM current operations as a       by 6.5 percent in February 2013.
    percentage of GDP. Baseline:          Despite the tariff adjustment,
    0.6% (2012); target (2013): 0.4%.     operational subsidies to the
    (Source: MEFB).                       electricity company largely
                                          exceeded budgeted amounts.
                                          Transfers from the budget reached
                                          1.1 percent of GDP in 2013 from
7
                                          0.6 percent of GDP in 2012. Not
                                          met.


    Medium term outcome
    Increased number of connections                                               The number of clients connected to
    to the grid. Baseline (2011):                                                 EDM-SA network has increased to
    261,000; target (2015): 300,000.                                              303,920 in 2013. EDM plans about
    (Source: EDM).                                                                25,000 connections per year going
                                                                                  forward. Met.


                                                         15
29.     Mali has emerged from a challenging political transition. A successful presidential
election took place in July-August followed by parliamentary elections in December 2013. The
new parliament is in place, illustrating the full restoration of the constitutional order.
Improvements of the security conditions throughout the territory were achieved with the support
of the UN mission (MINUSMA) and other donors, though insecurity pockets remain in the
Northern provinces, particularly in rural areas. Mali has also continued its path to economic
recovery and was able to maintain macroeconomic stability despite its exposure to exogenous
shocks. In 2013, aid resumed massively, representing an additional external inflow of over 10%
of GDP compared with 2012, surely stimulating demand for domestic goods and services; but
agricultural output contracted, due to poor rains. Economic growth rebounded to 1.7% in 2013,
up from 0.0% in 2012. Benefiting from the abundant food supply produced in 2012, consumer
price inflation strongly decelerated to –0.6% in December 2013, down from 5.4% in 2012.
However, there still remains considerable uncertainty on the magnitude of the economic impact
of the political crisis in 2012 and its subsequent recovery as security conditions improved from
2013. First post-crisis household surveys suggest that per capita consumption decreased in
Southern regions between spring 2011 and 2013, except in Bamako.

Objective 1: Deepening Executive Accountability

30.     There were some improvements in 2013 as far as executive accountability is
concerned. A transparency code and a law against illicit enrichment were adopted by the
Government, to be implemented from 2014 (both have now been adopted by the National
Assembly). Out of the four intermediate outputs related to the objective, two were fully met and
one partially: (i) budget execution reports were delivered using AICE software and its interface
with management applications for tax revenues (SIGTAS) and customs data (ASYCUDA),
covering all transactions at the central government level; (ii) audit reports were conducted using
a risk-based approach not only in the Education and Health sectors, but also in the Agriculture
sector and in Equipment and Transports. However, annual Public Accounts are still prepared
with some delays. The draft budget execution review law for 2012 was adopted by the
Government in December 2013. In November 2013, the Audit Section (Section des Comptes)
published for the first time since its creation an Annual Report, including its legal opinion on
budget execution reports for 2005-2010. The target on public reports to be posted on the major
civil society organization’s website was not met. The reports are available but technical and
logistic issues prevented their publication on the designated website. Measure of the first
medium term outcome indicator referring to the compliance of procurement plan with budget
allocations is not available, although it was selected from a government results framework. The
rationale of the indicator is to measure improvement in budget execution through more realistic
planning and respect of the budget integrity. This outcome is consistent with progress related to
the budget execution monitoring using AICE, the strengthening of PFM systems in health and
education, and improvements the investment selection framework. As for the outcome related to
the control of corruption, the dialogue built with the international community around the follow
up of the 2013 Brussels Conference put strong emphasis on deepening accountability and
combatting corruption. This is likely to translate into tangible improvement once the new rules
are implemented. Overall, the legal framework has been strengthened to allow for improved
governance, even if the perception of corruption may not improve immediately.




                                               16
Component Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Objective 2: Protecting Poverty Reduction Gains

31.     The government reported an increase by 11 percent of budget allocations for social
sectors in 2013 compared to 2012. With respect to the intermediate output, the target in terms
of percentage of GDP was not fully met. But the government can be given credit for its efforts
and continuous commitment to protecting pro-poor expenditures. As the revised 2013 budget
benefited from the resumption of aid, the Government managed to exceed the level of pro-poor
expenditures budgeted and supported by RRSC and the IMF RCF. From 28.6% of total public
expenditure in 2011, priority pro-poor expenditures increased to 31.4% and 32.9% in 2012 and
2013. The medium term outcome would be measured through benefit incidence analysis based
on survey data. This innovation is meant to encourage a better utilization of survey data for more
targeted policy interventions. The ongoing analysis of the modular and permanent survey of
households (EMOP) surveys as compared to 2011 would provide information on the evolution of
private consumption and allow estimating the rate of poverty in Mali at the aggregate level.
Since 2011, the Malian National Institute of Statistics has launched the EMOP which is designed
to collect a wide range of indicators necessary for monitoring and evaluating the progress made
in the improvement of living conditions. These surveys were interrupted during April 2012-
March 2013 because of the crisis, and began again in April 2013, though the analysis may be
undermined by the fact that EMOP 2013 was not conducted in the North.

Component Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Objective 3: Preparing for the Economic Recovery

32.     The selection committee for public investment projects was formally established in
March, 2013. The committee is headed by the Direction for Development Planning (DNPD) and
comprises representatives of Ministry of Economy and Finance, including the directions of
Budget, Public Debt, Treasury, Public Procurement, Poverty Reduction Strategy, Local
Governments and Foreign Cooperation, as well as from the National Statistical Institute and the
Environment and Sustainable Development Agency. The Committee reported that it selected all
the investment projects retained in the 3-year public investment plan 2014-16. In the 2014
budget law, the government has provisioned a sizeable allocation to finance feasibility studies
and ex-post evaluations to be carried by the selection Committee. Hence the Selection
Committee might be able to review public investments projects to be included in the next budget
law as targeted.

33.      The Government, through its council of Ministers, adopted a new financial
mechanism for irrigation for the Office du Niger area. It was expected that the adoption of
the mechanism would translate into the establishment of the land management agency and the
irrigation fund. Both are included in the reform package. The agency would be made responsible
to lease irrigable land to private entrepreneurs on a long term basis, with a view to provide them
with the security needed to invest in irrigation infrastructure on a cost-sharing basis. To date,
however, follow-up actions were not undertaken to complete the reform process. The
Government’s Action Plan adopted by the new Malian authorities has among other priorities



                                               17
making Mali an agricultural exporting champion by 2018. To this end, the Plan sets as a target
the doubling of irrigated areas by 2018. The Plan provides for the creation of a land management
agency. In this respect there is continuity in the design of reforms. However, a faster pace of
implementation is needed to achieve the planned results.

34.      Tariffs were increased on average by 6.5 percent in February 2013. This tariff
increase resulted from the implementation of the automatic electricity tariff adjustment
mechanism by the Electricity and Water Regulatory Commission electricity. Although limited,
this tariff increase was an important step towards reducing the gap between the unit cost and the
nominal price paid by consumers. Despite the tariff adjustment, operational subsidies to the
electricity company largely exceeded budgeted amounts due partially to a rising demand and to
repeatedly low investment and maintenance, resulting in inefficient production system. Transfers
from the budget reached 1.1 percent of GDP in 2013 from 0.6 percent of GDP in 2012. Besides,
the target of 300,000 connections to electricity grids originally set for 2015 is already met and
the situation is likely to improve since EDM plans about 25,000 connections per year going
forward. The assumption behind the medium term outcome indicator is that restoring the
financial equilibrium of EDM would allow the company to increase its investment capacity and
be able to satisfy a higher demand for connections without additional government subsidies. In
this respect, the outcome is mixed. In November 2013, the new government created a task force
to review options to restore financial sustainability of the electricity sector. With technical
support from the Bank, the task force drafted a financial recovery plan that foresees a
combination of annual tariff increases for industrial and residential consumers from 2014, as well
as investments to expand capacity and lower average generation costs, notably through the
conversion of thermal plants to heavy fuel and natural gas (imported from Mauritania, with
World Bank support). It also includes actions to reduce technical and commercial losses through
greater network maintenance and the development of pre-paid meters. By 2018, the plan foresees
that the elimination of subsidies needed to cover operational losses. The plan was adopted in
May by the Malian Cabinet and is being implemented. A tariff increase is already announced for
2014.

Component Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

35.    The overall outcome rating is a combination of the relevance and the achievement of
the objectives. Relevance of objectives and design are assessed as satisfactory, even if delays in
implementation due to the particular political context caused the overall rating of the design to be
moderately satisfactory.

36.     The outcome of the first component of the program, deepening executive
accountability, is moderately satisfactory. The prior actions were met, and most of the
intermediate outputs were at least partially met. The medium term outcome may take more time
to capture in terms of improved budget execution or corruption indicators.




                                                18
37.    The outcome of the second component, protecting poverty reduction gain, is
moderately satisfactory. Efforts were made to ensure budget allocations and support service
delivery. The government managed to increase pro-poor expenditure in a context of budget
constraints and rising military expenditure. As the economic outlook is favorable the medium
term outcome is likely to be met. Prior to the 2012 crisis, Mali had had a strong record of pro-
poor growth and this is expected not to change over the medium term.

38.     The outcome of the third component, preparing for the economic recovery, is
moderately satisfactory. It is satisfactory concerning the public investment selection committee,
moderately unsatisfactory with respect to the irrigation financing mechanism, and moderately
satisfactory in the electricity sector.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   a. Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

39.     Measures supported by the proposed operation were expected to have a significant
positive and direct effect on poverty reduction, though through various degrees. As short
term measure, the protection of priority pro-poor expenditures has ensured the financing of basic
service delivery during the transition. From 28.6% of total public expenditure in 2011, priority
pro-poor expenditures increased to 31.4% and 32.9% in 2012 and 2013. In addition to the
rehabilitation of infrastructures, the government has taken incentive measures to encourage civil
servants’ return to the Northern regions. A gradual return of refugees and displaced persons was
observed, as well as gradual redeployment of the administration in the northern regions. For
instance, estimated 75-80% children are back to school in the north as compared to pre-crisis
situation. On the other hand, the Poverty and Social Impact Assessment of electricity tariff
increases in 2013 suggests an insignificant impact on poverty. Micro simulations run using
household data from 2010 suggest that a 6.5 percent average tariff increase could induce a
marginal increase of 0.05 percentage point of the poverty rate.

   b. Institutional Change/Strengthening

40.    One main raison for the quick resumption of budget support in Mali was to support
the objective of peaceful policy transition and institutional normalization. The Malian
Government was rather successful in conducting the institutional normalization process, which
should be completed with the organization of local elections to be held before the end-year 2014.
Furthermore, important steps have been taken with a view to improving governance and public
finance management. This is reflected in the recent vote by the National Assembly of the law
against illicit enrichment, the transcription in Malian legislation and regulations of major
WAEMU guidelines related to transparency code, budget laws and public accounting, inter alia.
The reform package was supported not only by the Bank operation (transparency code), but also
EU budget support (institutional normalization) and the IMF program (law against illicit
enrichment and other WAEMU guidelines.

   c. Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
      N/A



                                               19
3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

41.     Though positive, Mali’s macro-economic outlook remains subject to a number of
downside risks. In years to come, Mali will continue to be highly exposed to exogenous climatic
and commodity price shocks, which could reduce its investment capacity, (in human capital and
infrastructure for capacity, national and regional connectivity, and resilience) perpetuating a
vicious circle of slow per capita growth and high vulnerability. It will also remain exposed to
security threats, originating from within Mali and from neighboring countries, which could
prevent the full resumption of ODA and distract Government resources and attention from its
governance reform agenda. Nonetheless, if these events would negatively affect Mali’s social
and economic development prospects, it is quite unlikely that they would be accompanied with a
macro-economic crisis, in the form of a fiscal, financial or Balance of Payments crisis. Indeed,
Mali’s fiscal situation and management remained sound during the crisis and should continue to
do so given the WAEMU environment, PFM reforms undertaken in recent years and continued
economic and financial surveillance from the IMF. The financial sector continues to be highly
liquid and Mali benefits from the pooling of WAEMU foreign currency reserves to cover its BoP
needs in bad times, including debt service obligations.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

42.     The quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory. The design of the RRSC was aligned
with the government program focusing on PFM reforms and resilience. The operation was
designed in consultation with other development partners, through various meetings held at the
local and international levels. All the prior actions were completed without delay.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

43.    The supervision of the RRSC is rated moderately satisfactory. Through several
supervision missions and review meetings, the team has maintained a strong focus on the results
framework. However, this regular supervision was not used to adjust the results framework
based on a revealed misunderstanding concerning one indicator (budget execution reports).
Information is also lacking on some key results indicators. The delay towards effectiveness was


                                              20
substantial, resulting in delayed disbursement for a fast track operation. This delay was mainly
imputable to political change at the highest executive level, and to the electoral agenda.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

44.   As Quality at Entry was rated Satisfactory and Quality of Supervision was rated
Moderately Satisfactory, the overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(d) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

45.    The performance of the borrower is rated moderately satisfactory. The government
was successful in maintaining macroeconomic stability and creating the condition for aid
resumption. It managed to protect social expenditures and launched important reforms in the area
of governance. However, critical actions such as improving the financial situation of EDM and
implementing the irrigation financial mechanism were not achieved.

(e) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

46.      The Ministry of Economy and Finance demonstrated strong leadership and coordination
to fulfill the prior actions. Less attention was dedicated to monitoring the results framework. The
performance is also undermined by the delay in providing the legal documents for effectiveness
declaration.

(f)   Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory (as explained above).

6. Lessons Learned

47.     The preparation and supervision of the RRSC benefitted from lessons learned from
previous operations for improved design and supervision. The reform agenda supported by
the operation was focused on areas such as governance and PFM with high strategic relevance,
sound analytical underpinnings, and strong government commitment. The government
ownership and readiness translated into prior actions being fully completed at negotiations stage.
However some major structural reforms entailing adoption of new laws or implementation of a
tariff mechanism may take more time to translate into tangible outcome, all the more so as the
country is hardly emerging from a deep political institutional and security crisis. In this respect, a
stand-alone operation, while justified under the exceptional circumstances that Mali faced in



                                                 21
2013, needs to be accompanied by strong follow up actions through other Bank’s operations to
ensure effectiveness and sustainability of reforms. Moreover, capacity constraints are a structural
feature of Mali’s administration and will still require much realism with the design of operations,
close monitoring, and a permanent dialogue with authorities.

48.     Notwithstanding improvements in the quality of design and supervision, the
outcome is still mixed. Opposition to key structural reforms impacting influential groups
remains a major issue, particularly in sensitive areas, such as agriculture, electricity and fiscal
policy. Despite the unprecedented crisis in 2012, vested interests seem to still be operating in
Mali, opposing resistance to any reform that would reduce its privileges, even if it would benefit
a large part of the population. In the electricity sector for instance, the reform agenda is
implemented with important delays and require a very strong supervision and focused policy
dialogue to move on. Hence, communication actions need to be undertaken during preparation to
raise awareness of the major public actors (parliamentarians, civil society organizations, unions)
of the true challenges in order to mitigate the influence of vested interests.

49.     Borrowers and implementing agencies have a tendency to focus on the realization of
prior actions, dedicating less attention to the results framework. This emphasis has to be
expected in view of the nature of the Bank‘s instrument. Yet, it can be detrimental to progress
over time. In this respect, attention should be paid to the quality of outcome indicators at the
outset, making sure that these indicators are relevant to the objectives, that they can be measured
at every step of implementation, and that the authorities fully own them.

50.    There is a potential for the World Bank to build on his leadership on donors’
coordination to support a more consolidated reform program while leveraging stronger
financial support. Dialogue conducted by the Bank and the IMF in 2012 on budget
developments was instrumental to the resumption of budget support from the European
Commission, African Development Bank and France in 2013. The momentum for coordinated
support to resume assistance to Mali culminated with the May 15, 2013 “Together for a New
Mali” conference. This momentum is still alive among donors as illustrated by the follow-up
conference held in February, 2014 in Brussels. Building on this momentum would favor the
focus on limited crucial reform measures and consolidated results matrix, accounting for weak
capacity of the government. Recent developments in Mali also suggest that a strong and
coordinated donors’ presence is necessary to fill the gap in terms of institutional locks for
improved governance.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(g) Borrower/Implementing agencies

Borrower’s comments indicated agreement on the document including the ratings.

(h) Cofinanciers: N/A

(i) Other partners and stakeholders: N/A
    (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



                                                22
        Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

Supervision
Names                              Title                                  Unit
Sebastien C. Dessus                Lead Economist and Sector Leader,      AFTP4
                                   PREM
Boulel Toure                       Senior Economist                       AFTP4
Siobhan McInerney-Lankford         Senior Counsel                         LEGAM
Fabrice Karl Bertholet             Senior Financial Analyst               AFTG2
Ruxandra Costache                  Counsel                                LEGAM
Francois Onimus                    Senior Water Resources Spec.           AFTA3
Maimouna Mbow Fam                  Senior Financial Management            AFTMW
                                   Specialist
Cheikh Ahmed Diop                  Senior Economist                       AFTP4
Yele Maweki Batana                 Senior Economist                       AFTP4
Wolfgang M. T. Chadab              Senior Finance Officer                 CTRLA
Mariama Daifour Ba                 Program Assistant                      AFTPM
Judite Fernandes                   Language Program Assistant             AFTP4
Bleoue Nicaise Ehoue               Senior Agriculture Economist           AFTA1
Jose C. Janeiro                    Senior Finance Officer                 CTRLA


(b) Staff Time and Cost

            Stage            Staff Time and Cost (Bank
                                    Budget Only)
                                 No. of staff weeks         US$ Thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant
                                                                      costs)
 Lending
            FY13                      55.40                         357,800

 Supervision/ ICR
           FY14                         3.0                         16,501

    Total for 2013-2014               58.40                         374,301



                                              23
                         Annex 2: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators

                                                           2011     2012     2013    2014      2015       2016

                                                        (annual percentage change, unless otherwise specified)
 National income and prices
   Real GDP                                                 2.7       0.0      1.7     6.5       6.4          5.5
   Real GDP per capita                                     -0.3      -2.1     -1.0     3.1       3.1          2.1
   Consumer price inflation (average)                       3.1       5.3     -0.6     3.5       2.5          2.2

 Money and credit
  Credit to government (a/)                                 5.1       10      -2.7     4.1       1.8          1.5
  Credit to the economy (a/)                               15.8      3.3       7.7     3.1       4.4          6.2
  Broad money (M2)                                         15.3     15.2       6.0    12.0      10.0         10.4

                                                           (percentage of GDP, unless otherwise specified)
 Investment and saving
   Public investment                                        8.7       3.2     7.5     10.9       9.1          9.1
   Private investment                                      11.7      11.9    11.0     11.8      13.7         13.1
   Public savings                                           2.1       2.2     3.3      3.2       3.4          3.4
   Private savings                                         13.8       9.6    11.7     12.5      13.6         13.5
   Foreign savings                                          4.5       3.3     3.4      6.9       5.8          5.2

 Central government finance
   Revenue                                                 15.4      15.2    15.4     15.8      16.4         16.9
   Grants                                                   3.8       0.2     3.7      4.1       4.0          3.7
   Total expenditure                                       22.9      16.8    21.7     24.4      23.3         23.4
   Overall balance (cash basis)                            -3.7      -1.2    -2.9     -5.1      -3.0         -2.8
  Basic fiscal balance (WAEMU def.)                        -1.1      -0.8    -0.6     -0.5       0.0          0.0

 External sector
   Current external balance                                -6.2     -2.6     -5.2     -6.8      -5.8         -5.3
   Exports of goods and services                           26.2     31.2     28.1     24.4      23.5         22.6
   Imports of goods and services                           36.1     37.9     48.3     47.6      37.2         35.4
   Public debt (end of period)                             29.1     30.1     30.0     31.1      31.1         31.0

 Memorandum items:
 Nominal GDP (FCFA billion)                              5,038      5,328 5,467 5,966         6,394      6,860
 Overall balance of payments (US$ million)                  45      -96.9 -174.3 -80.6          4.1      -27.5
 External debt (end of period)                            24.4       25.9      25.8   27.3     27.6       27.7
 Gross Int. Reserves (imputed, months of imports)           6.6        5.4      5.0    4.6       4.4        4.6
 Terms of trade (annual percentage change)                15.8       15.2     -20.9   -0.7       2.3        2.5
Source: IMF and World Bank Staff calculations, March 2013. a/ contribution to money supply growth




                                                      24
                                    Annex 3: Results Framework

                                                           Expected Outputs, Outcomes and Related
                     Prior Action
                                                                         Indicators
    Deepening Executive Accountability
  The Recipient’s Ministry of Economy,                   Intermediate output: Increased number of
  Finances and Budget installs the AICE                  quarterly budget execution reports produced
  software and its interface with management             using the AICE. Baseline (2012): 0; target
  applications for tax revenues (SIGTAS) and             (2013): 2 (Source: MEFB).
  customs data (ASYCUDA), covering all
1
  Central Government Transactions as to
  integrate the management of tax and customs
  revenues in the Recipient’s accounting
  information system.

    The Recipient, through the Contrôleur General        Intermediate output: Increased number of
    des Services Publics, adopts a risk-based            internal audit reports in Ministries of Health and
    approach for internal controls in the Ministry of    Education using the adopted risk-based
    Health and the Ministry of Education.                approach. Baseline (2012): 0; target (2013): 2
                                                         (Source: CGSP).
2                                                        Medium term outcome: Improved compliance of
                                                         procurement plans with budgetary allocations in
                                                         the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of
                                                         Education. Baseline (2012): n.a.; target (2014):
                                                         100% (Source: PAGAM indicator).

  The Recipient adopts and transmits to the              Intermediate output: Increased number of budget
  National Assembly the budget execution                 execution reports of Year N-2 certified by the
  reports for fiscal years 2010 and 2011, and the        audit section of the Supreme Court submitted to
3 legal opinion on the budget execution report for       National Assembly with Budget Law for Year
  fiscal year 2010.                                      N. Baseline: 0 (2012); target 2013: 1. (Source:
                                                         MEFB).

    The Recipient, through the Council of                Increased number of reports from national audit
    Ministers, adopts the Budget Transparency            entities (Bureau du Vérificateur General, Section
    Code and submits it to the National Assembly.        des Comptes de la Cour Suprême, Contrôle
                                                         General des Services Publics, Inspection des
                                                         Finances) published on the website of the
                                                         national council of civil society organizations
4
                                                         (Conseil National de la Société Civile). Baseline
                                                         (2012): 0 ;target (2013): 4 (source: PAGAM
                                                         indicator)
                                                         Medium term outcome: improved control of
                                                         corruption. Baseline 2011: 32%; target (2014):
                                                         40% (Source: Governance Indicators).




                                                    25
                                                             Expected Outputs, Outcomes and Related
                     Prior Action
                                                                           Indicators
    Protecting Poverty Reduction Gains
    The Recipient increases the share of priority          Intermediate output: Increased share of priority
    pro-poor expenditures to total expenditure             pro-poor expenditure in GDP. Baseline: 6.0%
    through the 2013 Budget Law 2013 in                    (2012); target (2013): 6.5% of GDP. (Source:
    comparison with the Budget Law 2012.                   MEFB).
                                                           Medium term outcome: increased share of
5
                                                           priority pro poor expenditure benefiting the two
                                                           poorest quintiles: baseline (2010): n.a.; target
                                                           (2015): 40%. (Source: benefit incidence analysis
                                                           from ELIM, CSLP).

    Preparing for the Economic Recovery
    The Recipient, through the Ministry of                 Intermediate output: Increased share of public
    Economy, Finances and Budget establishes a             investment projects retained in the Public
    selection committee for public investment              Investment Plan which were reviewed and
    projects.                                              selected by the unique selection committee for
                                                           public investment. Baseline (2012): 0%; target
                                                           (2013): 50%. (Source: MEFB).
                                                           Medium term outcome: Increased share of
6
                                                           public investment projects retained in the budget
                                                           laws submitted to the National Assembly which
                                                           were reviewed and selected by the unique
                                                           selection committee for public investment.
                                                           Baseline (2012): 0%; target (2015): 100%.
                                                           (Source: MEFB).

    The Recipient, through the Council of                  Intermediate output: Land titles delivered to
    Ministers, adopts a new financial mechanism            private entrepreneurs by the structure in charge
    for irrigation for the office du Niger area.           of the financing mechanism. Baseline (2013):0,
                                                           target (2015): 1 (Source: MoA).
7                                                          Medium term outcome: Increased surface of
                                                           irrigated land financed by the mechanism.
                                                           Baseline (2013): 0 ha; target (2017): 2,500 ha
                                                           (Source: MoA).

    The Recipient, through the Commission de               Intermediate output: Reduced Government
    Regulation de l’Electricité et de L’Eau, adopts        Subsidies for EDM current operations as a
    and implements the automatic electricity tariff        percentage of GDP. Baseline: 0.6% (2012);
    adjustment mechanism.                                  target (2013): 0.4%. (Source: MEFB).
8                                                          Medium term outcome: increased number of
                                                           connections to the grid. Baseline (2011):
                                                           261,000; target (2015): 300,000. (Source:
                                                           EDM).




                                                      26
      Annex 4: Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                      27
      Annex 5: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                            28
Annex 6: Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              29
                                 Unofficial English Translation


REPUBLIC OF MALI
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE



                                                               TO
                                                               World Bank Country Director
                                                               Mali
                                                               Bamako



Dear Country Director,

 Comments on the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) of the Mali
Reform and Recovery Support Credit: Your letter Ref: N° PNU/st/183-14 of June 12, 2014

I have the honor to acknowledge receipt of the above referred letter concerning the transmission
of the Implementation and Completion Results Report on the Mali Reform and Recovery
Support Credit (P125856).

In response, I would like to let you know that the report calls no specific comments on our part.

I would also like to assure you that action will be taken to address the weaknesses identified in
the report with respect to implementation and supervision for the next budget support operations.

Sincerely,

Signed


Ibrahim Traoré
Acting Secretary General
Ministry of Economy and Finance




                                                30
Annex 7: Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                              N/A




                               31
                           Annex 8: List of Supporting Documents



Memorandum of the Operations Committee (OC) Review Meeting, “Mali Recovery and Reform
Support Credit (RRSC)”

Decision Note of Operations Committee (OC), “Mali Recovery and Reform Support Credit
(RRSC)”

Program Document, “Mali Recovery and Reform Support Credit (RRSC)”, (Report No. 67541-
ML)

Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Mali for the period FY14-15, Report No. 76233-ML

Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, “Mali Recovery and Reform Support Credit”

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP), “Mali Recovery and Reform
Support Credit”

Project Information Document (PID), Concept Stage and Appraisal Stage, “Mali Recovery and
Reform Support Credit”

Aide-mémoire for Preparation Mission

Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR)

Letter of Declaration of Effectiveness




                                 Annex 9: MAP IBRD 133443


                                             32
33
