Documentl of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
XA ;5>'3- SC
Report No. P-4228-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$8.5 MILLION
TO THE
ECUADORIAN ELECTRIFICATION INSTITUTE (INECEL)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
POWER SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 12, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Sucre (SI.)
February 1986
(Unified Rate)
US$1       = S/.110.0
S/. 1      = US$.009
S/. 1,000  = US$9.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND HEASURES
Whenever possible, the SI (International System) was used in this
report. Exceptions are:
kgoe       =  kilogram of oil equivalent = 42.2.106 J
toe       =  tons of oil equivalent       = 42.2.109 J
I barrel       =  0.159 cubic meter (petroleum)
bd       =  barrels per day
Wh       =  Watt-hour =3.6.103 j
AEBREVIATIONS
k (kilo)        =  103 (thousand)
M (Mega)        =  106 (million)
G (Giga)        =  109 (billion)
CEPE           =  Corporacion Estatal Petrolera Ecuatoriana
(State Petroleum Company)
CONADE         =  Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
IDB            =  Inter-American Development Bank
INE            =  Instituto Nacional de Energia
(National Institute of Energy)
INECEL          =  Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion
(Ecuadorian Electrification Institute)
MEM             =  Ministerio de Energia y Minas
(Ministry of Energy and Mines)
PRONAF          =  Programa Nacional Forestal
(National Forestry Program)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
POER SECTOR IMPROVENENT PROJECr
LOAN AND PROJECT SJNAY
Borrower:        Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion (INECEL).
Guarantor:       Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:          US$8.5 million equivalent.
Terms:           Repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate and charges.
Projec
Description:     The project would help improve INECEL's overall performance
in the country's power sector. This would be achieved
through: (i) an institutional development program, con-
sisting of studies and implementation of institutional
reforms in INECEL; (ii) studies to undertake a comprehensive
evaluation of the present power tariff structure and formu-
late a plan for implementating necessary adjustments; (iii)
studies on ways to optimize power system operations; (iv)
training for INECEL's staff; and (v) provision of equipment
and vehicles in support of the above activities.
Benefits:        The proposed loan would help improve operational efficiency
and financial performance in the power sector by:
(i)   identifying and addressing key organizational and
functional problems, including implementation of
modern management systems within INECEL;
(ii)   developing a tariff framework to form the basis for
implementing electricity pricing reform;
(iii)  improving the economics of power system operation and
the quality and reliability of power supply; and
(iv)  increasing the competence of managers and technical
and administrative staff through a comprehensive per-
sonnel training program in INECEL.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheirofficial duties. 16 contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risks:           Successful implementation of the proposed project depends on
INECEL's continued commitment to (i) improve its overall
efficiency; and (ii) make timely arrangements to contract
necessary consultant services. The risk that the necessary
commitment to improve efficiency will not materialize is
judged to be minimal, since both INECEL's high-level manage-
ment and Government officials are committed to the proposed
technical assistance and institutional reforms. Con-
sultations with key personnel during project preparation
have helped to obtain commitment to reforms from INECEL's
middle-level staff as well. The risk of delays in
contracting of consultants will be minimized because the
process will have been begun under the Public Sector
Management Project (Loan 2516-EC), and the staff and
performance of the four organizational units set up by
INECEL to implement this project will be closely monitored
by the Bank, and will receive Bank assistance during project
implementation. The project does not pose environmental
risks.



- iii -
Estimated Costs
Local      Foreig        Total
(US$000)
Estlmted Costs:
Studies
- Institutional Development Program
Part A                                 430        1,320       1,750
Part B                                              790         790
- Tariffs                                  450          475         925
- System Operation Management              670        1,140       1,810
- Training Planning                         70          120         190
- Computing Equipment                       -           460         460
- Metering Equipment                                    515         515
- Power System Simulators                   -         1,200       1,200
- Training Equipment                        90          720         810
- Vehicles                                  -            95          95
TrainiLg
- On-the-job and courses abroad            130          390         520
- Experts                                   -           285         285
Total Base Cost                        1,840        7,510       9,350
Physical Contiugencies                   184          751         935
Price Contingencies                      306        1,239       1,545
Total Project Costs 1/                 2,330        9,500      11,830
n 4  Plan
INECEL                                     2,330           -        2,330
Loan 2516-EC                                  -         1,000       1,000
Proposed Loan                                 -         8,500       8,500
2,330       9,500       11'830
Estimated Disbursemts
1987     1988     1989    1990
-(US$ millions by Bank FY)--
Annual                   2.8      3.5      1.7      0.5
Cumulative               2.8      6.3      8.0      8.5
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  None
1/ The tax content of this project would be negligible.



INlTUNTIONAL BANK FOM                 AND DEEJlOPUhT
REPORT AND *          10  OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE lEDN
TO TUB EXECJTrIE DIRECrORS OR A PROPOSED LOM TO
INEE  FOI A POI   SEC IR               PROJE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Ecuadorian EJectrificatioc Inutitute (IECEL), with the Guarantee of
the Republic of Ecuador, for the equivalent of US$8.5 million, to help
finance studies to improve its organization and operations, and prepare the
ground for possible future Bank projects in the power sector. The loan would
be repayable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and charges.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 5676-EC
entitled "Ecuador: Public Investment Review.' was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 16, 1985. An earlier general economic
memorandum, Report No. 5094-EC entitled "Ecuador:  An Andmfa for Recovery and
Sustained Growth," was distributed on October 5, 1984. The subsequent
paragraphs reflect those reports as well as the findings of a March 1986
economic mission to Ecuador. Annex I provides the main social and economic
indicators.
3.        While Ecuador began the 1970s as one of the least developed Latin
American countries, the discovery, exploitation and subsequent world price
hikes of oil placed it firmly among the middle-income countries of the
hemisphere by the end of the decade. Oil changed Ecuador's economy
dramatically. Two-thirds of 1970 export revenues were from agriculture; by
1980, nearly two-thirds were from petroleum and only a quarter was from
traditional agricultural crops. Real GDP grew an average 9 percent a year in
the 1970s. With this rapid income growth, much social progress was made in
spite of rapid population growth (2.8 percent). Significant increases in
education enrollment were achieved, infant mortality was halved, and life
expectancy increased by 15 years.
4.        Resources generated from oil exploitation were, in general, used to
improve priority physical infrastructure needed for development: trunk
roads, pipelines, airports, seaports, power generation. In addition to
financing much of public sector investment, these oil revenues were channeled
through Central Bank credit to the private sector. However, the Government's
role grew: total public expenditures rose from 24 percent of GDP in 1973 to
34 percent in 1982. Government subsidies-to urban consumers, fuel and



- 2 -
electricity users, import-substituting industries, exporters--grew in
importance. The public sector's use of external borrowing also grew; medium-
and long-term debt outstanding rose from around US$600 million in 1977 to
US$7.1 billion in 1985. Nevertheless, the country's institutions remained
weak. Moreover, the benefits of growth not only created severe structural
problems, they were also unevenly distributed: a sizeable middle class
emerged but about 40 percent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural
population still live in poverty.
5.        By 1984 over half of fiscal revenues came from petroleum.  Since
much of the oil revenues were earmarked, only 60 percent of General
Government current revenues were channeled through the budget. Furthermore,
the non-oil revenue effort was seriously weakened: income taxes represented
less than 2 percent of GDP, while income and import taxes collected
represented less than a quarter of their theoretical yield. Low internal
energy prices created distortions in consumption and investment patterns.
6.        Further structural problems developed as a result of the trade and
exchange rate policies followed since the 1960s, which gave high protection
to the industrial sector and permitted a steady real appreciation of the
exchange rate. These policies allowed real manufacturing output to rise 150
percent during 1972-1982, virtually all based on import-substitution. But
with one or two exceptions, Ecuador's non-oil exports stagnated, and by 1982
two-thirds of foreign exchange came from oil exports. These underlying
problems made Ecuador's economy very vulnerable to world petroleum prices and
to the availability of foreign credit lines, and helped bring the period of
prosperity to an end by 1982-1983.
Economic Performance in Recent Years
7.        A recession developed when oil prices ended their real rise in
1981, foreign credit lines were reduced drastically in 1982, and natural
disasters occurred in 1983. GDP dropped by 3 percent in the Latter year.
The Authorities initially borrowed heavily abroad to counteract the fall in
oil prices, but as Ecuador's access to external funds dwindled, an
IMF-supported stabilization program became necessary. This program adjusted
the exchange rate, introduced mini-devaluations, and placed temporary
restrictions on imports. Ecuador also undertook a debt rescheduling and
initiated a fiscal austerity program. Inflation, however, surged to 50
percent in 1983 owing to flood-related output disruptions and the short-term
effects of the adjustment measures. By 1984, economic growth resumed (4.1
percent of GDP), the public sector deficit was virtually eliminated, and
inflation was halved. With new petroleum fields coming on stream, the volume
of oil produced rose 18 percent between 1983 and 1985. Non-oil exports,
responding to improved exchange rates and better weather, also rebounded.
8.        Following a close election, a new Administration took office in
August 1984. Its economic philosophy is very much market-oriented. The new
Government took a number of significant measures aimed at consolidating
economic recovery and initiating structural reforms: further devaluations;



-3-
increases in domestic fuel prices, electricity tariffs, and interest rates;
removal of those emergency import controls introduced in 1982; promotion of
direct foreign investment; and elimination of most administered prices in
agriculture. It also negotiated a new IMF Stand-by, which focussed on
achieving balance of payments equilibrium and a reduction in inflation.
Supported by the Stand-by, Ecuador unified two official exchange rates 1/,
introduced a new financial savings instrument-certificates of deposit--with
market-determined interest rates, generated a public sector surplus,
eliminated some prior import deposits, and tightened monetary control. The
results of all the above measures, together with continued recovery from the
1983 disasters, allowed 1985 GDP to grow by 3 percent, inflation to decline
to a 22 percent annual rate, export volume to grow by 8 percent, net reserves
to improve to nearly US$200 million (equivalent to one month of imports), and
private savings mobilization to increase significantly, mostly through the
new certificate of deposit.
9.        A prime target of the Government's program was its external debt,
servicing of which would have consumed three-fourths of export earnings had
further reschedulings not been arranged. The Government's multi-year debt
rescheduling was finalized in December 1985. All principal falling due to
commercial banks between 1985-1989 (about US$4.2 billion) was rescheduled,
but virtually no fresh money was provided. Similarly, a multi-year
arrangement was worked out with the Paris Club in April 1985, dealing with
1984 arrears and principal falling due in 1985-87 (about US$400 million).
Assuming world petroleum prices had remained about constant in real terms,
the Authorities-and Bank staff-believed Ecuador could have achieved GDP
growth of 5-6 percent p.a. with a modest level of additional external
financing restricted to official sources.
10.       The precipitous fall in oil prices in early 1986, however, has
significantly changed Ecuador's prospects. Petroleum revenues stand to
decline by over US$850 million in 1986 alone (29 percent of 1985 merchandise
exports), while fiscal revenues from oil could fall by US$460 million (5
percent of GDP). Partly offsetting the oil export losses, agricultural
exports are expected to bring in an additional US$250 million because of
higher coffee prices and Ecuador's good policies during 1984-1985.
Nevertheless, these net losses now mean that over a quarter of Ecuador's 1986
domestic savings and 28 percent of its exports will be needed for foreign
interest payments.
Outlook
11.       Given the recent enormous loss of oil income, Ecuador is likely to
suffer a recession in 1986. While the economic performance of Ecuador is
highly sensitive to world petroleum prices, its prospects also depend on its
ability to accelerate the implementation of structural reforms.
12.       The country is, especially in its new petroleum fields, a rather
low-cost producer, so low that six private oil firms have signed exploration
1/ There still remains a legal floating rate used for certain invisible
transactions.



- 4.-
contracts since 1985; one has found new oil and is testing its commercial
feasibility. Staff projections indicate that if the oil price were to
increase to a level of US$15/bbl for 1987 and beyond (at 1987 prices) GDP
growth could be above population growth after 1987, even if the current
account deficit were restricted to about 3 percent of GDP. The debt-service
ratio would be about 30 percent of exports of goods and services, assuming
that the new borrowings were provided by official and commercial sources at
attractive terms. At this relatively low oil pzice the Ecuadorian economy
could begin only a slow recovery if the Government desired to improve its
creditworthiness and maintain private consumption per capita at about the
1985 level. If oil prices reach a level around US$17/bbl in 1987 and
thereafter (at 1987 prices), the economy could achieve higher GDP growth
rates-4 to 5 percent-even if the current account deficit were restricted to
2 percent of GDP.
13.       After oil prices, the greatest effect on Ecuador's recovery and
creditworthiness will stem from the Administration's ability to aggressively
implement adjustment policies already begun. These include a steady
liberalization of many factor and product prices, reduction of industrial
protection, divestiture of inefficient state enterprises, maintenance of an
attractive exchange rate for exporters, increased utility tariffs and
domestic petroleum prices, increased exploration for oil by both public and
foreign private companies, and enhancing and diversifying sources of fiscal
revenue. A new challenge, which partly stems from the new oil price
prospects, will require greater efforts to restrict the growth of public
expenditures, both current and capital.
14.       As of end-April 1986, the Government of Ecuador was negotiating
with the IMF for a new Stand-by arrangement. The Bank is also assisting the
Authorities in developing a medium-term growth strategy as a possible vehicle
to mobilize additional resources for Ecuador's development. Because of
Ecuador's past determined efforts to adjust its economy, the likelihood that
petroleum prices will rise from present (end-April 1986) levels, and the
Government's positive policy responses, we believe the country remains
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BDAK GOUP OPERhIIONS IN ECADCR
15.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. The Bank and IDA have extended 36 loans
and 6 credits to Ecuador totalling US$872.6 million net of cancellations. As
of March 31, 1986, US$498.7 million of this amount had been disbursed. The
IFC has invested in five firms in Ecuador, including a large textile company,
a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise and a development ftnance
company. As of March 31, 1986, commitments for these operations amounted to
US$28 million, of which IFC held US$5.2 million. Annex II contains a suamary
statement of Bank loane, IDA credits and IFC operations as of March 31, 1986.
16.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the insuffi-
ciency of the country's public sector managerial and technical resources-a
constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic and social
development. In recent years, the Goverrment and Bank staff have worked



together to step up disbursement of Bank loans. Among other initiatives, a
Special Action Program for the country provided for revolving funds in five
projects. As a result of these general efforts, disbursements rose from
US$26 million in FY83 to US$42 million in FY85. The country has set up a
monitoring committee for all externally financed projects which should rein-
force efforts to accelerate disbursements. The Bank plans annual portfolio
implementation reviews to detect and resolve specific obstacles to execution
of Bank-financed projects; the first took place in November 1985.
17.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be over-
come. To date, approximately 22 percent of Bank Group lending has been for
infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two were to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Three power operations aimed at
improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first live-
stock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a diversi-
fication in the Bank Group's lending program away from infrastructure. Since
then, the Bank Group has made ten other loans and credits for agriculture and
fisheries, nine loans to support industrial development, and two for
pre-investment studies. These productive sector loans comprise 65 percent of
total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group support for social
sectors-education, water supply and urban development-now accounts for
about 13 percent of total Bank lending.
18.       Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to support Government
initiatives in macroeconomic and sector reforms over the medium term. This
will be achieved through a series of sector and project loans aimed princi-
pally at supporting policy improvements in energy, agriculture, and industry,
and developing social and economic infrastructure. In addition to the design
and adoption of adequate sector policies, Bank lending will emphasize the
generation of exports and employment. Besides the Power Sector Improvement
Project recommended in this report, for the near term the Bank is preparing
agricultural credit and water supply operations. In addition to Bank
lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible operations in agribusiness,
fisheries, petroleum refining, hotels and merchant banking.
19.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources. IDB
haa been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Loans outstanding (including
undisbursed) from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1985, totalled about
US$1.2 billion equivalent. Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the
power, agriculture, industry and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to
the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry
concessional terms.  It is likely that IDB will remain Ecuador's major
development lender in the immediate future with power, agriculture and
socially-oriented projects continuing to account for a large share of its
lending program. By December 1985, USAID had about US$158 million in
outstanding loans to Ecuador (including undisbursed). Its program
concentrates on irban development, agriculture, health and the private
sector. In addition to maintaining close contact with USAID, IDB and other
aid agencies to assure compatibility of programs, Bank staff have undertaken
a full public sector investment review which could serve as the basis for a
Consultative Group Meeting of Ecuador's creditors, possibly by end-1986.



-6-
20.       As of December 31, 1985, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt of Ecuador totaled about US$7.1 billion. Of the
former sum, the Bank group was owed 4.4 percent and the IDB 8 percent.
Through 1990, the IBRD share of Ecuador's outstanding and disbursed public
foreign debt is expected to remain below 10 percent, and the IBRD share of
total public foreign debt service is projected to remain about 11 percent.
PART III - TE ETNOM,Y SECTOE
21.       In 1984/85 the Bank undertook a thorough assessment of Ecuador's
energy sector. The results of this assessment were published in December
1985 as Report No. 5865-EC entitled 'Ecuador: Issues and Options Ln the
Energy Sector."   The findings of this report have served as the basis for
dialogue between the Bank and the Government on sector issues, including
those to be treated by the proposed project.
Energy Sources and Balance
22.       Ecuador has diverse and abundant energy resources, largely
untapped, consisting of hydroelectric power, oil, natural gas and renewable
resources, such as firewood and bagasse. Hydroelectric potential, of which
less than 4 percent (725 MW) is presently exploited, is estimated at about
21,000 MW. Oil reserves are estimated at about 1.5 billion barrels, and
natural gas at about 550 billion cubic feet. Although hot water springs
exist in the country, the Government has not yet started to study these
potential geothermal sources. The country has abundant forests, most of them
located in the sparsely populated Amazonian region, but fuelwood is scarcer
in the densely populated areas.
23.       In 1984 Ecuador consumed about 4.5 million tons oil equivalent
(toe) of energy, rerFilting in a low per caput consumption of about 500 kg of
oil equivalent (kgoe), compared with a world average of about 1,500 kgoe and
' Latin America average of 1,000 kgoe. Petroleum products accounted for a
very high share (72 percent) of energy consumption, with firewood (22
percent) and hydroelectricity (6 percent) completing the picture.
24.       The transportation sector is the largest energy coeisumer (39
percent), followed by households (33 percent), industry (17 percent),
agriculture (3 percent), and others (8 percent). Petroleum products are the
main energy source for industry, agriculture and transportation, accounting
for 69 percent, 100 percent and 100 percent respectively of consumption in
these sectors.
25.       Petroleum is of crucial importance for the colintry.  Crude oil
accounts for over half of total exports, and whatever happens to the volume
of oil production or oil prices overshadows developments elsewhere in the
economy. The country started producing 3,700 barrels of oil per day (bd) in
1971 and attained 209,000 bd in 1973. After that, production remained
relatively static at about 267,000 bd. Oil production between 1986-88 is
predicted to average about 300,000 bd. However, since past exploration



-7-
efforts were insufficient, petroleum reserves declined by almost 30 percent
between 1973 and 1984. As a result, projections indicate that after 1988,
production from existing fields will be unable to maintain crude oil exports
at the 1984 levels and serve continually increasing internal demand. Since
this would severely aggravate the country's economic situation, especially
given oil price declines, the Government has acted to incre£se exploration
activities, including changes in the Hydrocarbons Law to attract private
investors. As a result, new exploracion service contracts have recently been
signed with six foreign companies.
Energy Sector OrganIzation and Planning
26.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for formula-
ting energy policy and coordinating all energy planning activities in the
country. It regulates the exploration and exploitation of all energy sources
except forests, which are the responsibility of PRONAF, the National Forestry
Program. MEM establishes consumer prices for petroleum products. The opera-
tional responsibility of the energy sector is delegated to various public
sector corporations which report to MEM. Corporacion Estatal Petrolera
Ecuatoriana (CEPE) is responsible for the petroleum and gas subsector, and
Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificacion (INECEL) and its associated regional
power companies, for the power subsector.
27.       The Government attaches a high priority to developing the energy
sector. In 1978 the National Energy Institute (INE) was created, as the
national energy planning center. In addition, the National Hydrocarbons
Directorate (DNH) is the technical-administrative branch of MEM that controls
all hydrocarbons operations. The legal framework of the sector is based on
the Hydrocarbon Law, the Law of CEPE, and the 1961 Electricity Law, supported
by various public sector laws and regulations for procurement, personnel, et
al.
The Electric Power Subsector
28.       At end-December 1985, the Ecuadorian power sector had an installed
capacity of 1938 MW, of which 45 percent was hydro. In 1984 peak demand was
810 MW, total generation was 4,220 GWh, and the sector had about 954,000 con-
sumers. About 61 percent of the population has access to electricity. Per
capita consumption increased from 110 kWh in 1970 to 311 kWh in 1980, and is
estimated at 500 kWh in 1985.
29.       The power sector is now organized around INECEL, which was created
in 1961. In the 1960s, 22 regional power compauLes operated either
independently or with minimal interconnections, and the system was mainly
thermal. INECEL acted mainly as a Government regulatory agency, with the
power to set tariffs. In the 1970's, Ecuador's oil boom endowed INECEL with
abundant resources from petroleum royalties. This resulted in INECEL
consolidating its control over the regional utilities and becoming itself a
generation and transmission enterprise. Additionally, INECEL started
building its own large hydroplants. As a result, in the 1980's there has
been a complete switchover from isolated thermal stations to hydro stations,



-8-
with an interconnected transmission system covering the country's main
consuming centers. INECEL has become the major supplier of bulk power, and
today it operates as a planning agency as well as a bulk generation and
transmission utility. Additionally, INECEL has majority control in 16 of the
17 regional power companies responsible for distribution. These companies
are organized as corporations, and the balance of their shares are owned
mainly by the respective local municipalities, with a few cases of :ndividual
private shareholders.
30.       INECEL is governed by a Board of Directors chaired by the Minister
of Energy and Mines or his deputy. Other Board members are the Ministers of
Finance and Industry, a representative from CONADE (the Planning Board), the
Chief of the Joint Command of the Armed Forces, and one representative from
each of the regional power companies, the Association of Engineers, and power
sector workers. Responsibility for day-to-day operations is delegated to a
General Manager who is assisted by six operating managers.
31.       The largest market of the country, the city of Guayaquil (1.5
million inhabitants) has been served since 1926 by Empresa Electrica
Ecuatoriana (EMELEC), a privately-owned utility. EMELEC's concession
expired in October 1985. A decision on the future organizational status of
EMELEC is expected to be taken by the Government by mid-1986.  In the mean-
while, the company continues to generate and sell power to its consumers
under an interim contract, buying the bulk of its needs from INECEL.
32.       Total system losses in Ecuador are about 22 percent.  They are con-
centrated in the distribution systems managed by INECEL's subsidiaries and
vary among them. Transmission losses sustained by INECEL are about
5 percent. INECEL is arranging for a study of distribution losses to be
carried out during 1986-87 under Belgian Technical Assistance.
Institutionl Issues
33.       Though overall coordination of the energy sector by MEM is sound,
much improvement is required to increase the efficiency of the major sector
institutions. In the power subsector, INECEL faces institutional problems,
both internally and externally. The organization is headed by a Board with
the features of a Council of Ministers; its decisions tend to be slow and
political. Furthermore, the current Electricity Law vests much power in the
Board and little in the Managing Directors. Board meetings therefore tend to
have an overcrowded agenda and little efficiency, since many items are sent
back to be analyzed by informal study groups. Internally, INECEL has coordi-
nation and communication problems among its six Directoretes. The Quito
offices are spread in 13 different locations and each Directorate tends to
have its own administrative and financial staff. As a result, the informa-
tion flux is slow. In its relations with the regional power companies, des-
pite the fact that INECEL holds the voting majority in the subsidiaries'
Boards, the minority Board members representing the local municipalities
often assert a disproportionate weight in decision making, sometimes
introducing political corsiderations. As a result, control of these
subsidiaries is weak. Under the proposed project, an organizational study of
Ecuador's power sector would be performed with the help of consultants, and
recommendations for the managerial and administrative restructuring of the
INECEL group would be prepared (para. 52).



- 9 -
34.       A second sector problem is that the country has shifted in the last
five years from isolated thermal systems to an Integrated and interconnected
system fed mainly by hydro plants, and the operational and managerial pro-
blems that this new configuration entails have not been totally mastered.
Under the proposed project INECEL whould therefore prepare a study with the
assistance of consultants, to improve its operational efficiency and to plan
and operate Its future system using modern criteria (para. 54). For this
purpose, a System Operations Unit has been established within INECEL.
35.       A third sector problem is human resources management.  Although
INECEL has an active Training Department, which has developed a generally
good training system, training deficiencies remain in several areas, includ-
ing operations, administration and finance. The proposed project would
finance an extensive training program for managers and staff in these areas
(para. 55). The training program would support expected managerial and
administrative reforms, and take into account the recommendations of the
organization study (para. 33).
Tariff Policy
36.       Electricity tariffs are approved by INECEL's Board.   The present
tariff regulation was approved in December 1983, and its main objective is to
establish a tariff that provides the utilities with an adequate contribution
to investment, such percentage being determined annually for each utility by
INECEL's Board. The tariff structure is based entirely on accounting costs,
and cost of service relates to past investment and present cost levels.
While similar accounting cost principles are frequently used for utility
tariff-setting in Latin America, marginal cost principles would yield more
economically efficient tariffs. Details of the present tariff are shown in
Annex V. Because tariff levels have not been adjusted frequently enough to
.fully reflect even accounting costs, tariffs have decreased in real terms
since 1970 (see Table). Moreover, the average consumer rate in 1985 (US$
cents 3.2 kWh) was much lower than marginal costs, estimated by a recent Bank
mission to vary between US$ cents 9.7/kWh and US$ cents 5.7/kWh, depending on
voltage level.
Current               Constant
Year                  US$ cents/kWh         1970 USS cents/kWh
1970                         2.7                    2.7
1975                         3.1                    2.3
1980                         5.1                   2.3
1984                         3.4                    1.2
1985                         3.2                   1.1
37.       The current policy to remedy inadequate tariffs is to implement
small nominal monthly increases, which started in September 1983 at an
effective rate of 1.8 percent p.m.  In November 1985, average tariff
increases of 3 percent p.m. (equivalent to 42 percent p.a.) to final
consumers and 2 percent p.m. (equivalent to 27 percert p.a.) to INECEL for
bulk sales were introduced. These tariff increases are expected to improve
sector finances in the medium-term (para. 43).



- 10 -
38.       In order to help develop a more rational tariff policy, the
proposed project would include a thorough study of electricity tariffs (para.
53) and INECEL haa established a new Tariff Unit within its organization for
this purpose.
Sector Filances
39.       INECEL and Its subsidiaries have faced serious financial problems
for a number of years. However, these problems only became evident in the
early 19809, following initiation of INECEL's ambitious investment program
designed to substitute thermal by hydroelectric generation and to intercon-
nect the country's regional systems to a national power grid. In the 1970s,
with the onset of the oil boom, it was decided to fund INECEL's investment
program from oil revenues, instead of from consumers through tariffs. This
was done through earmarked petroleum revenues contributed to the newly-crea-
ted National Electrification Fund. However, the subsequent decline in oil
prices and resultant debt crisis found the sector ill-prepared to face
financial realities.
40.       As a result of the above funding policy and insufficient tariff
levels, the sector experienced negative operating incomes for 1983 and 1984,
with a net Ions of US$20 million equivalent in 1984. Net internal cash
generation has also become increasingly negative. In 1984 it was about minus
US$65 million, and would have been more negative but for the rescheduling of
a portion of INECEL's then due debt.
41.       Despite its poor financial evolution, the financial structure of
the sector is good, as capital contributions from the National
Electrification Fund have allowed it to limit reliance on borrowings as a
source of funding. The sector's debt/equity ratio at end-1984 was around
30/70, which is satisfactory.
42.       As a result of these developments, and the overall shift in
Ecuador's macroeconomic situation as oil revenues have declined and the
debt crisis has evolved, the Government has adopted a development strategy
for the sector aimed at minimizing investments and increasing net internal
cash generation.
43.       Consistent with this approach, in November 1985, tariff increases
of 3 percent per month to final consumers were introduced. The financial
projections shown In Annex IV for 1986-1990 reflect these increases, which
are expected to result in average real annual tariff increases of 15 percent
in 1986, and about 30 percent in each of 1987, 1988 and 1989, to reach an
average level of about 8.3 USS cents/kWh in that year. 2/ This is expected
to result in average sector rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in
operation of minus 0.8 percent in 1986, 0.5 percent in 1987, 2.4 percent in
1988, 4.6 percent in 1989 and 5.6 percent in 1990. Under the assumptions
used, by the end of 1990 average tariffs would be close to the long-run
marginal cost and sector finances would have improved. Capital contributions
from the National Electrification Fund could be gradually reduced,
practically disappearing by 1990. Net internal cash generation of the sector
would slowly improve from minus US$78 million in 1985 to about US$200 million
in 1990. Further treatment of financial policies should flow from the
results of the tariff studies (para. 53).
2/ These projections assume internal inflation of 21 percent in 1986,
decreasing to 15 percent by 1989, and nominal yearly tariff increases (in
sucres) of 42 percent from 1986 to 1989.



- 11 -
44.       IRECEL's Finances.  INECEL's financial situation is very similar to
that of the sector, since INECEL holds about 75 percent of the sector's total
assets and executes the bulk of investments. In the past, INECEL has
provided considerable financial support through loans and equity
contributions to its subsidiaries; in 1985 these contributions amounted to
US$17 million equivalent. The differential in the monthly rates of tariff
increase (para. 37) will allow the regional companies to gradually become
financially independent from INECEL, besides increasing their rates of
return. When this is achieved, INECEL has indicated that the pace of
increase of bulk rates would be reviewed.
Power Demand and Sector Investaent
45.       Electricity consumption in 1985 was about 3,800 GWh, and is
expected to grow at an average annual rate of 6.5 percent, i.e. to about
7,100 GWh in 1995. Peak demand in 1984 was 810 NW, and is expected to reach
about 1,600 MW in 1995. INECEL is one of the few public sector institutions
with a comprehensive Master Plan (prepared with financing under Loan
S-006-EC). Projects implemented since the late 1970s have generally been
well-conceived least-cost solutions, and would allow INECEL to cope with
projected demand growth by raising the present installed capacity of 1,638 ffW
to about 2,600 MW by 1995. The large reserve margin is a result of existing
thermal plant capacity, much of which has been substituted by hydroelectri-
city (para. 29). The best allocation for the large thermal plant reserve is
expected to be determined through the power system operation studies (para.
54). Given the recent collapse of world oil prices, consequential reductions
in forecast demand growth, and siltation problems which have become evident
with the Paute hydrogeneration complex, both the composition and timing of
proposed additions to the power system are presently being scrutinized by
INECEL, the Government, and the Bank, in the context of its ongoing public
investment review. Results of such scrutiny would be reflected in the
updated Master Electrification Plan which INECEL is currently preparing, and
would be carefully considered when formulating proposals for further Bank
lending for investments in the power sector. For the time being, however,
INECEL is considering the following projects:
Ci) the Agoyan hydroelectric plant, (156 MW), in construction, to be
commissioned in 1988;
(ii)  the multipurpose Daule Peripa project, which consists of an irriga-
tion component and a 130 MW power plant;
(iii) the Paute C hydroelectric plant (500 MW), to be commissioned about
1990 and for which the civil works have already been contracted;
and
(iv)  the Paute-Mazar hydroelectric plant (174 MW), still under study,
intended for commissioning after 1990.
The existing Master Electrification Plan also includes: (i) the transmission
lines conne ting the generation plants to the main grid; (ii) the
transmission lines Paute-Ambato-Quito to complete the country's 230 kV ring;



- 12 -
(iii) several 138 kV radial lines to link new regions to the system; and (iv)
a number of 69 kV lines to provide electric service Co the transformer
stations which feed the distribution networks.
46.       The investment needs of the existing Master Electrification Plan
during the period 1984-1993 are estimated at about US$2,000 million
equivalent (constant 1984 prices). Approximately 50 percent of this
investment would be required to complete the works under execution through
1990.
Experience with Past Lending
47.       The Bank has made three loans to the power sector in Ecuador.  The
Quito Electric Company (EEQ, now a subsidiary of INECEL), has been the
recipient of Bank funds. The first two Bank operations (in 1956 and 1957)
helped to finance the 40 MW Cumbaya hydroelectric project, several diesel
plants and distribution systems. These works were completed in 1961 and have
been operating satisfactorily. In 1972 IDA credit 286-EC for US$6.8 million
was approved, for the 30 MW Nayon hydroplant. The Project Performance Audit
Report No. 3003 for this project, issued in May 1980, concluded that although
the physical objectives of the project had been met, progress in financial
and institutional targets had been disappointing. A Bank loan (No. 2045-EC)
for US$100 million to INECEL was approved in 1981; at that time, however, the
Government felt unable to undertake the tariff actions that had been agreed,
and therefore requested termination of the loan before it became effective.
A Bank loan (No. 2516-EC) for US$8 mill.on for a Public Sector Management
Project was approved in 1985. This loan includes a US$1 million allocation
to INECEL to help finance its institutional development program (para. 52).
Bank Strategy
48.       Bank strategy for the sector focuses on (1) strengthening sector
organization and management; (ii) promoting improvement of sector finances
and the introduction of rational tariff policies; and (iii) reducing system
losses. The proposed project would promote the first two of these
objectives, while the third objective would be handled directly by INECEL
through the engagement of consultants (para. 32) and through possible future
Bank lending to the sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECI
Background
49.       The project was identified in June 1985 and was prepared by INECEL
with the help of Bank staff. It was appraised in November 1985. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington from April 14 to 16, 1986. The Ecuadorian
Delegation was led by Mr. Victor Salgado, Assistant to the General Manager of
INECEL. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the
project.



- 13 -
Project Objecties
50.       The main objective of the proposed project is to improve the effi-
ciency of the sector by assisting INECEL in those areas where it faces the
most pressing problems, viz: inadequate institutional structure; poor
management Information systems; inadequate tariff structure; inefficiencies
in power system operation, planning and programming; and personnel training
at all levels. The project would also help establish an enhanced dialogue
between the Bank and the power sector authorities which could possibly lead
to a greater Bank role In the sector.
Project Description
51.       The project would include components for Institutional development,
tariff studies, a power system operations study, and staff training for
INECEL.
52.       Institutional Development Program. INECEL has started a survey to
identify institutional problems within its functional structure and the power
sector as a whole. Preliminary terms of reference, cost estimate and timing
for an Institutional Development Program (IDP) were prepared in June 1985,
with technical assistance from Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S. A.,
(ENDESA), Spain. The Program would include not only INECEL, but also its
subsidiary companies. It would be divided into three parts: (i) Part A
would be financed under the proposed loan, and would address INECEL
directly. It would provide for: (a) analysis of the power sector in the
context of the energy sector; (b) formulation of an emergency plan for
improving INECEL's present organization and information systems; (c)
definition and plan for INECEL's restructuring; (d) implementation of items
(b) and (c) above; (e) purchase and installation of priority
equipment-mainly personal computers and office machines; (f) training of
personnel; and (g) preparation of preliminary designs for information systems
and terms of reference to be implemented under Part C. The above tasks would
lead to a critical analysis of the existing energy and power sector
organization, and would identify the changes required for more efficient
coordination within these sectors and with the HEM. INECEL's present
organization and institutional setting would be thoroughly reviewed, and
alternative structures for INECEL and Its subsidiaries would be proposed to
improve sector efficiency. Since the preparation, selection and
implementation of the final organizational structure is expected to take more
than 12 months, it is envisaged that an 'emergency plan' would deal with the
most urgent problems of the present organization and systems. A consulting
firm would be required for the tasks described above. Its counterpart in
INECEL would be the Institutional Development Unit, which would be staffed as
necessary. This unit would receive occasional technical assistance from
ENDESA within the framework of the existing bilateral technical assistance
agreement. (ii) Part B would be financed under Loan No. 2516-EC (Public
Sector Management Project) and would be conducted for INECEL's subsidiaries-
mainly EMELEC (para. 31) and EEQ (para. 47), but would be directly contracted
and supervised by INECEL. The studies for Part B would include: (a)
identification of major problems In the subsidiaries' structures and
operations; (b) emergency plan for improvements in their present



- 14 -
organization; (c) purchase of priority equipment for item (b); (d) training
of personnel; and (e) preparation of preliminary designs for information
systems and terms of reference to be implemented under Part C. There would
be a close relationship between Parts A and B of the Program, and the same
consultant selected for Part A would also be engaged for Part B. (iii) Part
C of the institutional development program would remain for future action and
would encompass the development and implementation of the information systems
designed under Parts A and B.
53.       Tariff Studies.  Tariff studies would constitute the second project
component and have two major objectives: (i) to provide the sector's
management with a sounder basis for tariff decisions; and (ii) to review the
structure and level of current tariffs in view of the longer term expansion
needs of the power system. Since there are pressing needs for the results of
these studies, INECEL's staff would begin them as a matter of priority with
assistance from consultants as needed. The studies would assemble data on
power demand from different categories of consumers at various voltage levels
to derive typical daily load curves, their seasonal evolution, and their
respective participation in the peak system demand. A data base would be
designed to store the load information, and adequate computer programs would
be implemented to process it. A study of generation, transmission and
distribution costs, using both marginal and accounting cost approaches, would
determine the costs of service to different categories of consumers at
various voltage levels. The results of these studies would enable INECEL, as
an interim measure, to reform its tariffs based on more accurate accounting
costs in the period to 1988, while providing the analytical basis for INECEL
to begin to implement tariffs based on marginal costs after 1988. Both sets
of tariff actions would assist INECEL to reduce its dependence on capital
transfers from the National Electrification Fund (para. 39). The studies
would be carried out by the Tariff Unit, assisted by individual consultants.
Metering equipment, computers and necessary vehicles would be procured to
support the studies. Training in data collection and processing, and
analytical methods, would be provided to INECEL staff working in the Tariff
unit.
54.       Power System Operation Study.  This study would be the third
project component. It would review the current operating practices and
resources available to INECEL and their adequacy for the management of the
present and future National Interconnected System (NIS). Based on the
present configuration of the NIS and the requirements of its future evolution
as defined by the Master Electrification Plan, the study would define the
scope of the various management functions for successful power system
operation within INECEL, and would define the type, amount and quality of the
resources required for their implementation. Immediate implementation of
this study would be carried out to determine how to allocate best the present
capacity of thermal power plants within the NIS. The study would last about
two years, and be carried out by INECEL's System Operation Unit with the
assistance of consultants. Consultants would also be employed for on-the-job
training of INECEL's power system operation personnel, both in the field and
at headquarters. Full implementation of the power system operation study
would require a large amount of equipment and infrastructure works. Within
the scope of this project, financing would be provided for procuring and
installing priority metering, computing and simulating equipment.



- 15 -
55.       Training Program.  The final project component would be a
personnel training program to cover the period 1986-89. It would be based on
the Master Electrification Plan, and would reflect training needs for the
future systems operation including the traluLng requirements for the
activities mentioned in paras (52), (53), and (54) above. The program would
have remedial and developmental objectives: it would refurbish and expand
facilities at INECEL's existing training centers, and would increase the
participation of mid-level technical personnel in training programs geared to
system operation and maintenance. The project training component would
provide additional training opportunities for about 22 percent of the staff
of INECEL and the regional power companies, and would cover the needs of
managers, professional, administrative and support staff, and field
personnel. The training program would include about 225 events in the form
of courses, seminars, fellowships abroad and on-the-job training. Courses
and seminars would be developed using INECEL's own facilities and external
institutions, such as SECAP (Vocational Training Institute) and
universities. It is expected that about 35 percent of the training
opportunities would be provided on-the-job. Thus, trainees would upgrade
their knowledge under real working conditions while performing maintenance
and operation tasks. The training program would be administered by INECEL's
training department. The present training advisory committee would be
expanded to include representatives of the operations, tariff, planning and
institutional development units.
56.       The terms of reference for the above components are in the final
stage of revision, and INECEL expects to have the final versions available by
mid-1986.
ProJect Cost and Financing
57.       Total project costs are estimated at US$11.8 million, of which
US$9.5 million or 80 percent, represent foreign exchange. The tax content of
the project would be negligible. Base costs have been estimated as of
December 1985. Since the base cost estimates were made conservatively, a 10
percent allowance for physical contingencies appears adequate. Price
contingencies are based on estimates for international inflation as follows:
7.2 percent for 1986; 6.8 percent for each of 1987 and 1988; 7 percent for
1989; and 7.1 percent for 1990. It has been assumed that local base costs
converted to US dollar equivalents would alsc increase at these rates, since
the Government's foreign exchange policy is to keep the value of the sucre
approximately in line with the dollar. The proposed Bank loan of US$8.5
million, together with the US$1 million to be provided for INECEL under Loan
2516-EC (para. 47) would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the
project. INECEL would finance the equivalent of US$2.3 million in local
costs. In order to permit work on the various studies to start
expeditiously, retroactive financing for up to US$850,000 (10 percent of the
proposed loan) would be provided for consultants' services and supporting
equipment and vehicles contracted in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank after January 1, 1986.
Procurement
58.       The services and goods to be procured under this project comprise
studies and equipment and vehicles, each contract for which would be of



- 16 -
relatively small value. Studies related to institutional development would
be carried out by consulting firms selected through a short list. Studies
related to tariffs, power system operation, and training would be carried ont
by individual consultants. All consultants would be contracted in accordance
with Bank Guidelines.
59.       Procurement of goods would be mainly through limited international
bidding (LIB) for lots not exceeding US$360,000 equivalent, up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.9 million. International shopping or direct
contracting would be used for procurement of off-the-shelf items individually
valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
$500,000 equivalent. Procurement arrangements for goods and services under
the project are summarized in Annex VIII.
Disbursements
60.       Disbursements would be made to finance up to:  (i) 100 percent of
expenditures for consultant's services; (ii) 100 percent of direct foreign
expenditures for imported goods; and (iii) 70 percent of direct local
expenditures for goods procured locally. Disbursements for contracts with a
value of up to US$100,000 would be carried out against statements of
expenditure (SOEs). These would be certified by INECEL, which would retain
them and make them available to Bank missions for review. Other
disbursements would be fully documented. To facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account of US$1 million equivalent would be established in the
Central Bank. The Special Account and SOEs would be subject to annual audits
carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. There are no
disbursement profiles available for loans similar to the one proposed;
disbursement estimates have, therefore, been based upon the experience in the
Region.  It is expected that the project will be completed by December 31,
1989, and the Closing Date would be set at June 30, 1990.
61.       To ensure satisfactory execution of the various project components,
a condition for loan disbursements for each project component would be that
the organizational unit within INECEL responsible for such project component
be staffed with personnel satisfactory to the Bank.
cuxnPltinmg *d Anditing
62.       INECEL would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank. INECEL would have these accounts and its
financial statements audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The audited accounts and financial statements would be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the close of INECEL's fiscal year.
Project aneefits and Risks
63.       The proposed project would contribute to development of the power
sector by assisting INECEL to:
(a) identify and address some key organizational and functional pro-
blems and implement modern management systems;



- 17 -
(b) develop a tariff framework as the basis for electricity pricing
reform;
(c) improve both the economics of operation of the power system and the
quality and reliability of supply; and
td) increase the skills of managers and technical and administrative
staff through a comprehensive personnel training program.
64.       Successful implementation of the proposed project would depend on
INECEL's continued commitment to: (i) improve its overall efficiency; and
(ii) make timely arrangements to contract necessary consultant services. The
risk that the necessary commitment to improve efficiency will not materialize
is judged to be minimal, since both INECEL's high-level management, and
Government officials are committed to the proposed technical assistance and
institutional reforms. Consultations with key personnel during project
preparation have helped to obtain commitment to reforms from INECEL's
middle-level staff as well. The risk of delays in contracting of consultants
would be minimized because the process would have been begun under the Public
Sector Management Project (Loan 2516-EC) and the staff and performance of the
four organizational units set up by INECEL to implement this project would be
closely monitored by the Bank, and would receive Bank assistance during
project implementation. The project does not pose environmental risks.
PART V - RECC"hEDATION
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 12, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-7
'I l



- 19 -
ANNEX I
S A.LJO L 7                                    Page  1 of  6
110sT                    (MM  Uc(  t UnDATE)   C
i.alk.    1siatk  umauL            LA2. AaRInCa A CAa             av
amu C'mm. no
TOTAL                              283.6       213.6       232.6
AARIlLTIUL                          47 .a      43.6        65.3
inI mCar  CoUn)                         ..          *-      1420.0             1875.9                   2144.2
-1         1PTION ma coi
CMLoGmSL  o0r OIL UUALuS           151.0      223.0       571.0              U35.6                   1119.0
-           -  ViUL STzI!
IPOPULATIU,NID-TZ   CT|UO DI)   4422.0       5564.0      8216.0
UA POPULATIONS (10O  TOAL           3.4        39.5        66.6               67.7                     47.5
POMUATIUM PRO3EOTIOI
POUATION IN TS. 2000 (HILL)                              12.6.
=STATISM  PoPULATION  tCMrLQ                             25.0
POPULATION USNINM                                         1.9
voMALTIO amDT
131 sq. Lt.                       15.6        20.7       29.0               48.0                     86.7
PS SQ. M. AM. LAN                 94.1       120.3       122.3              91.1                    166.9
POPULATION A*33 STRUCTOUR CZ)
0-14 TU                          46.4        45.3       43.3               39.5                     31.2
15-6  iS                          S1.9       90.3        52.7               57.1                     61.5
65M IAM  30                        3.5        3.3        32                  4.2                      7.2
POPULATION GVOV11 Kam CZ)
TOTAL                              2.9         2.3         2.6               2.4                      1.6
URA                                4*.         4.2        3.3                3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BUM LATZ CP  TONS)            66.6        43.2       37.0               30.9                     23.4
con uslA=  AT (PE  DUV)             16.6        12.9         6.1               8.0                      8.9
GROSS rWOCTOU aE                     3.4         3.2        2.6                2.0                      1.5
FAMILY PLAIUIJI
ACCRIS. AOLIAL (UB)                ..         9.0        32.2 3
UssS ( or 1 1    ON)               ..          ..        40.0               45.2
vom An Emium
1533z 0o 100  noD. PU CITA
(1969-71-100)                      104.0      101.0        62.0              109.6                    109.1
PU CAPITA SUPLT 07
CAWRSU (C 0 URQUIUZIUU)          76.0       89.0        97.0              113.2                    131.5
P3mRDIS (CGRA   PU DBA)           45.0       92.0        50.0               69.6                     92.4
OF WI   ASDAL AND PU             25.0        27.0       26.0  j            36.2                     34.5
CUM CAS 1-4) D0K  RAZ               26.2        17.8         7.0       *        .8                      4.7
LIN ZP5T. AT SIRU (CTRS)            50.7       55.9        62.3               64.8                     67.2
-:1N  mm. IATZ (PU flS)            140.0       107.5       76.0               59.7                     53.3
A!SS TO SAIX VA-.R (230P)
OTAL                              1:.3 rL   346.0        U5.0 Jb            65.3                     70.2
UBN"                              32.5       76.0        a2.0               76.5                     89.4
RURAL                              1.9        7.0        16.0               " 46.2                   57.0
A=9 TO hXZCRTA DISPOSL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TODAL                              ..         22.4       25.0 1             56.3                     59.6
URBA                               ..          ..         9.0 7i            73.6                     65.9
URAL                               ..          ..       O16.0               25.5                     67.6
POULATIO PU PTBCIA                2670.0      2320.0      760.0             1909.7                   1070.6
PoP. PUD tSIN P23505              2360.0 L   1580.0       570.0              608.2                    769.5
POP. PU WUPWTAL NM
TOTAL                            530.0      420.0       500.0              362.0                    328.3
U41N                             300.0 f    300.0         ..               422.0                    201.9
RURAL                              ..      440.0          ..              2716.7                   4519.7
ANIsIoSS PnR MOSPrAL UD              ..         17.1        ..                27.5                     20.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSLD
TOL                                5.1 /t     5.2
mAN                                ..          ..          .                  ..
AVERAGE NO. 0 PESNSRU
TOTAL                              2.5 3      2.3
otom                      2.1         1.9         ....
RURAL                              2.         2.6.
PERCEIT       OF DiCLDG  WITS ELET.
TOTAL                             32.3 If     ..         65.0
78.5       ..
RMRAL                              8.5        ..



- 20 -
ANNEX I
T A 8 L C !A                                     Page  2  of  6
ECUAWR                 -  OAL ISICATOS DATA SNEIT
ECUADOR                              REFRENCE GROUPS (WElGHTED AVuRAGES)
MOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) l
bg6oLk  197O~k RECW             MIDDLE INCOM            MIDDL INCOME
196tlL     1970oL! CSTIIMATEF       LAT. AMERICA * CAR           zUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTZD ZNROLUIENT RATIOS
PRIMARYa  TOTAL                   83.0        97.0       114.0              106.7                    101.9
HALE                   67.0        99.0       116.0              108.5                    106.2
FEMALE                 79.0        95.0       112.0              104.6                     97.5
SECONDARYI TOTAL                  12.0        22.0        56.0              44.2                      57.5
MALI                   13.0        21.0        56.0               42.7                     64.9
MIALU                 1OC         23.0        56.0               44.9                     50.0
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         29.0        11.1        12.3               13.3                     21.0
PUPIL-TRAOCER RATIO
PRDUIRY                           39.0        38.0        36.0              29.9                      25.1
SEC0DARY                          11.0        14.0        15.0               16.7                     19.1
coUElNIrFI
PASSIOENR CARS/THOUSAND POP          2.1         4.6        8.5 .L            46.0                      54.2
RADIO RECEIVERS/TWOUSAND POP        38.4       289.9       356.8              328.3                    170.7
TV REGEIVIRSJTHOUSAND POP            0.5        25.6       68.9               112.4                    149.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOSAND POPULATXON             51.1        42.6       71.4               61.1                      97.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA      .           3.8          .                2.4                       2.7
LAUM room
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THNOS)         146.0       1888.0      2661.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.3        19.1        22.0              23.6                      36.3
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4        51.0        51.6 /a            31.4                     40.8
INDUSTRY (PECENT)                 19.4        22.2        17.1 7-           24.3                      23.3
PAARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOML                              32.7        32.2        32.4               33.5                     43.1
MALE                              55.0        52.1        50.5               51.3                     55.1
FEMALE                            10.6        12.3       14.1               15.9                      31.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.5         1.5         1.5                1.3                      0.9
f-1  DISYZUTX
PIRCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED SY
-IHEST SS OF HOUSEHOLDS                        ..
HIGHEST 20S OF HOU8E011S            ..         .
LOuIST 20S OF  SEOLDS              ..          ....S..
LOST 40S OF HOUSEROLDS             .           .
--rX TACT QDIIP
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA
URBAN                               .                    470.0 1f           288.3
RURAL                                                    320.0 1/          185.3
ESTMED RELATIV  P0ERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAnPTA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        553.0 /a          519.8
RURAL                                          2. 428.07                   3 39.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBA                                .                    40.0 /a
RURAL                              5. .6.D 
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLe
/a  The group averagea for each indicator are population-weighted arithmtic meat.. Coverage of countriem
among the indicators dtpends on availability of data and In not uniform.
/b   Unless otherviae noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Date for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Moet Recant tetimte' betwon 1981 and 1983.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /a 1980; /f 1962; LL Percentag  computed on the baesi of total number of occupied
housing units; Ih1978.
JUNE. 1985



-21-                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFNmMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notw: Altoug the data are drawn from aouoa gerlly juded the moat authoritative and reliable it should also be noted that they may not be mntcmutwmnlly
compaale beue of tae cIw of sanrdized deRintions and concepts used by different countries in colleting the data. The dota amr nonetheles. useful to
describe orden or1 magnitude, indicate trends, and charcerime cerain major difference betwnen countrie.
The refernce group are (1) the me cowttry group od tie subject country and (2) a country goup with somewhat higher avenge income than the country
group of the subjet county (except for 'High Income Oil Exponhs group where -Middle Intome North Africa nd Middle Eat- ib chsen beause o strnger
socio.cultural affinities). In the reference group data tde av*age are popuation weighted aritunetic mean for each indicator and shown only when majunty
or theo ttoi in a group ha data for that indicator. Since the coverae ofcountries among the indiacton depends on the availability of data and mi not uniforn.
cauton must be exercied in relating averages done indicator to another. Thbe avers are only useful in comparing the value of one indicator at a ume among
tde country nd reference goups.
AREA (thousaud sq.km.)                                             Crude rB    Rate (per thoasad)-Number of live hirths in the year
Ted--Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;    per thousand ormid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crude Death Rate (per thousnd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrkuwal--Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or        per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repreodwon Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current           in 1960, 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       Famly PIaadag-Acceprers, Annual (rhoasaudr)--Annual num-
Rank Atlam (I1981483 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices or national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commnercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Faily Pansuiu-Users (peren of waren womeaJ--The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Womcn
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Tetal Pepuatim. Mid- Year (housands) -As of July 1; 1960. 1 970.   FOOD AND NUTRMON
an 1983 data.
uldex of f Prodtawon Per Capit (1969-71 = 100)-Index of per
poulatiopn;        (perent ofdefinitions of urban areas 'ay affect  ompar-  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
Population; different definitions                                  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.         include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Thpaatiau P1-nz m                                                  which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.     excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
madc for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on     vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parametcrs    on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gencralized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Spply of Caloies fpecear ofreqniremsenrs)-Comput-
Stosionary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have sinultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction ratc= I). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculturc, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing, and losses in distribution. Requiremerts were
constant, and the grov th rRtc ss zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activitv
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and hcalth considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monmn:um-Is the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita Supy of Protein (grans per day) - Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all counxnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of iotal protemn per
a ratio of the ultimatc stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward, 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Ibpu-Jato  Desity                                                  average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-       Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Cata Piroein Supply  orom Animal and Plse-Protein supply
Per .sqk. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only, 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Populadon Age Structure (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-     Chl (ages 1-4 Death Rate (per rhouszad)-- Number ofdcaths of
ing agc (15-64 ycars), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousa-nd children in the same age
of mid-ycar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. For mos deve. aping countrics data derived
Popladon  Growh Rate (percent)-total-Annual growth rates of        from lift tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 19783.         HEALTH
Popublan Growt Rae (percemt)D-uarban-Annual growth rates           Life Expertanc  at Birth Qj'arfs-- Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.        infant wouid live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 22-                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life:  Pupl-seacher Ratin - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lIfant Morta   Rate (per thousand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year 1960. 1970 and 19S3 data.                                  CONSUMPTION
Access oa Safe Witer (pfeet of populaqio)-totel, wtt, and       PossenWer Car (per thoand poplation J-Passenger cars corn-
rura--Number of people (total. urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Recivers (per thousandpopulab t )-All types of receivers
boreholes. springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive po.ulations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and iin years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect: data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas   be comparabine  most countresabolishedlicensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVReceiers (per rhousdpqpuhatinj-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the famnily's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Exerta Disposal (percen of populataon)-toral, urban,  in effect.
ad rwral-Number of people (total, urban. an d rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Afspaper Circuation (per thousandpopuaionJ-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instalati. ns.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at le st four times a week.
Populaion per Physicden-Population divided by number of prac-   Cinma Annuao Attendance per Capta per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  numbe.- of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Population per Nursing Person-Topulation divided by number of   drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
Populaion per Hospiad lBe-oalta  urbwan, and rura-Population    Total Labor Force (thousands)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and privcte. general and specialized  students, etc.. covering population Of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countnes are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femae (perceno- Fmale labor force as perenmage or total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricute (percent)---Labor force in farmning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient aceommodation and provide a limited range  data.
o'r edical facilities.                                          Industry (percear-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Admissions per Hospital hi-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Participatio Rate (percent-toral. male, k dfumae-PArtiCipation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as total. male, and female labor force
Average Size of Houehold (pers  per household)-rotal, urban,    as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
and rra-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofr 'x population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Nunber of Persons per Room-total, urban. and rural-     Economc Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-641.
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Peraentage of Dwellings wth Eleatriiy--toal. urban. and rua-    Percentage of Total Dsposabk Incom  (beth in cesh and kindj-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percent ile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted Enrollmnwt Ratios                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures ol povertN
Prtimary school - sotal male and female-Gross total. male and  levers. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
femaak enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimted Absolute Poverty income Level ( USS per capita -urban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and raral-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
a.: reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relative Poerty Income Level fUSS per capita)l-urban
education. gross enrollmnent may exceed 100 percent since some  and rarel--Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the countr). Urhan level is
age.                                                            derived from th- rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
SecondarY school - tocaL male and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Efimated Popatidon Below Absolute Poverty Incne Level {per-
mary instruction: provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cent)-urban and rural- Percent Olf population turhan and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrolbneni (percent oJ secondnryj-Vocational institu-         C(omparative Analvsis and Data Division
tions indude technical. industriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections l)epartment
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



-23-                                               AN    I
ICUlKA i ICOUIC  .A lE      n                               Iag  of .  &
Pepslatana  9.1 lnd 114, mllionsl
W Pr Capital 11.150 119511
... ___................................._......  ...........................
beet             Anirage An l liren I II   Ihre ofdIV  at akrket Pricn  Ill
ledAcaLer                                             illll" 106 At       lit nstant 1915 pricnl
Cerrnt Primesl  --------------           ------                         ................
Ji9             1l9i-70  1971104   19103         297        1915      000       95
Na415512 kacmnts
.................
Brmo  Ieetic Preact At                             11,7 9                  5.1       9.1       2.3      10n.0     10.0      10.0       10.0
Arltt.re                                          1,.0                   4.0       2.5        1.2      23.       17.9      1:.1      13.4
Industry & Rising                                 3,553.6                7.3      12.:        .9       19.1      27.6      29        32.9
karvn                                             6,310.1                6.3       9.1        1.0      56.3      54.5      9.0       13.1
Causptll                                            1,133.4                5.0       5.1       2.2       0.6       79.7      14.1      15.3
krms lsentet                                        2,273.9               II.?       11.6     -3.9       11.2      26.1      5.1       19.4
Expert. of Un  h/                                   3,39. 1                2.7       12.2       4.4      16.I       U.S      24.4      21.2
lepro   ef WIt  h I                                 2,652.3              1.9       10.9      -3.2      21.1       30.0      24.9      32.9
krm    Matinal SavIng.                              2,101.2                N.A.     13.1        0.6      12.4      19.0      21.2      17.9
....... ......_._.... ___............... ..__........ _... .. _................ _......  ___.........................
Cumpltl0n  ef ftrchalee Trade 11)
let cnrrc t pricul                  Estmated
190       J911      1902       19        1934      195
.... ...... _.....____. ..__..............
IIEDIK  EIPII                                                              1001.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0
Prism                                                                     7.1.3     76.7       1 7.5     03.0      02        11.6
Crude Pdtrale                                                           55.3      hI.7      51.6       t9.1      64.0      63.6
othes                                                                   17.5      15.0       17.9      13.2      16.2      11.2
nhfuactern                                                                27.2      S3.3       22.5      17.0      19.I       11.2
Ptrel. le ratins                                                         .7        5.S       5.2        4.0       6.0       3.5
FrWAS.a  Cmae                                                            7.1       4.2       2.4        1.1       1.9       2.6
Fis, ad Safood                                                           2.6       3.2       5.5        7.1       6.3       5.7
Othtrs                                                                  20.0      20.0       9.4        4.3       5.6       6.4
3uW IISE Itm:S                                                             100.0     100.0      100.0     10.0 200.0 100.         0
Fed                                                                        6.3       5.1       5.6       I1.5      10.1      n.e.
PFrel.                                                                     3.9       9.6       10.1      11.I       3.2       9.0
Nlachiery sad E4slpet                                                     39.9      01.1       34.7      27.1      33.4      29.6
Otles                                                                     44.9      62.9       4.        43.2      4.4       *.a.
PRICES      - ttlS OF ItVE 119759100I
lop  dialetr                                                             ISE.7     227.2      267.7     369.2     31.1      649.5
Eidegam   late tlcr   Wr dollar)                                          23.0      250        30.0      44.1      12.5      69.1
Expert Price linde                                                       244.0     240.0      2.3       23.2      MA.       221.0
14.t Prl.e Index                                                         164.2      MIS1     154.1     13.1       157.1     1.7
*.r    of    r ad, lid                                                      .E     ; 7.9      14.2      14L5      243.9     139.3
As a Iof BIP
I71       1900      1913      2934       1955
PULIC FIu=
Lurrat Rent enue                                                                    27.2       27.1      26.       29.0      30.0
Currnt Epemdltsrn                                                                   20.3      21.6       21.1      20.3      21.4
Sapin 1t1  r lweficat I-1                                                          -2.1      -4.5      -1.0        2.0       1.4
Capital Eapedsttre                                                                   9.1       10.0       6.7       6.7       1.0
Freaipn Flatmit                                                                      1.4       5.4        0.1      s.a.      e.a.
1960-70   1970-B0   190-E    19 
OME  ImIrITIK
SLP trmth Rab  171                                                                   5.0       9.1        2.3       3.1
ClP Pee Capita  remo  lRat                                                           2.4       6.5       -0.0       0.6
Enrgy Ceusen atlea Croeth lat  Ici l                                                 9.3   I13.6         x.A.       4.9 di
[CM                                                                                  0.1       3.0       13.0       7.1
Ieiual Saving  late                                                                4-.4        0.2       -0.4       0.2
lepert Elasticity                                                                    1.        0.3       4.5        0.1
s.c.- itfreratima mat available.
a/ - lerlrect tsn  are sncledd at Servaen.
hU  - Fre  latiesl Accents iat.  IlL  et mk tc  bla  ml PyFaets x.i.s.
cl - Figren are frr I95-f ad 1973-9E. Sutr  1E5 Iheld ldlmlet Rnpt.
di - Fag   for 3135. Semac     held lak  eprt t511,Et
4/211IL



-24- -NN!
ccm~   nuaci      raves, ENtRS. cm  TaO        i ur
ECUSCtj   U        ItK    DF  VNENIS, MUNEI. CAPITAL ZD KM13
Ilillmrn of at to at prieni
Ptlalron  *1  .n-and 114. utlltmnmi
Sid rPs Comic.i tl1,5 II*48
ktal                         Es7luts              PntjKtlu4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ............ __... ..__,,_____...... _........  ........  .........................
3l90     IW1       3902      1ISI      1j1t        1w       ama         19       3991
SAL41CE ;F P,9t4ET1
hut Gtaf.rts o4  oals 3 Sur.acn                         -671.4  -:W21.4  -1:14.4    -150.1    -2d.0.    -165.        -625.0    -251.3    -591.3
ws irts 0i lou     s Sew,cos                         2,.4  2. .1i" 2.734.a   Z6137.9   2,971.1   3,271.9   2,594.9   3,211.    1,3113.0
bsmts4 of os I S Se.acn                              2,611.1  4,03.2  3,949.0   2I,[i.O   :,240.0   1,t47.5   3,2139.0    ,732.7   4,64.3
hot Translers                                              0.   C     .      2C0 30.0  240         t0.0      20.4      25.G      :5.0       45.0
Csr'eaI k1ost 3m a cm                                   -N1.4  -IC2t.4  -1194.4    -13.1    -261.2    -I45.d         -O0.t0t   -t41.      -54.
DirCt Private 3s.usrntvt                                  70.0     d0.0      40.0      50.0       50.0       75.0      70.0     350.0      215.1
Offisicl krast aid                                        so.:       25         e    0               0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
RL toast lmt-                                            702.:    933.0   -241.:       114.0     317.9    13.        4*0.S     4St.C      t47.7
oflficial                                              2.6   4*20.7   -125.9         93.2    :12.9        183.9     32.0      2t9.1       49.3
Prin,t.                                               4*.:    510.3  -141.2           16.4    -75.0         2.4     122.3     159.!      297.9
7ttw  Captal 111.4   -201..  1004.5                                                   -97.5       30.3     -90.1       30.0      49.I       P.,
hatr is Ofliaial blsw,n  i-amcreasw                     -320.Z    294.0    a5.0        54.9      -20.0     -25.0 t      0.0   -354.3       -.&
6rou IlalrtatfiaSl Off3EI.0 t onars                      057.0    561-.    210.0      :7- 0      413.0     547.0      497.0     775.1      931.2
0#'ic.l Rwe.us lur-uf                                      2.0.      1.7      0.6        1.6       1,3        1.9       1.1       2.5        2.3
ci5 alIt ir ofnlwtsi
Actual                         Peolo..
2130     1tt3    392         353t      1090       09K
GIE DI#RSEOmNs
SrOss Dnursuuts, oaLt  Lcii                              972.9  :.412.5    27m.:      271.39     30.5      417.2
C ucnuoul                                               14.7     20.5      15.4      25.0      7n.0       13.3
IuI cteal                                                7      1.5       3.7        .4        7.9      u.a.
IDA                                                   ----      0.5   _                  _       _ 
Ilte  flaltilatrcl                                    11.0     21.5    13.7        :.4        49.3      s..
Ka-ecacnslunal                                         95.2  1,384.'    20:1.       251.1      112.5     133.'
1iicial E.lport  credits                               M.6    .21.      5.7      134.2      2W t1.3      5.0
Ing                                                   34.0     54.1      41.2      47.2      "6.7       11.9
_tbr IbIlilaltral                                     4a.;     47.7      72.5      26.3:       3.1      307.1
"tis                                                 627.2    156.0      39.4      4_.4       37.4      119.9
Elltk DETXg
BOb! 2tstsnlcgq and SnsruId                            3,300.4  4,392.2  .O5.t   *,261.9 i .62.4   7, -'.7
Otlmciul                                             t,;t.G   1,705.2  1,544.8               :.SS;.E   1.733.t
lOU                                                  0I9.4    151.3    373.4      201.4      247.3     2S11.
3It                                                   34.3     70.3      3i.2      25.0      :3.' 3a.a
0th,u  official                                    1.17f.:  1,517.4  1,35.C    1.494.:   1.134.1   1,410.1
Ot1er                                                1,981.4  2,417.0  2,340.:   4,537.9   4.7!3.L   3.40.9
Usdsisbrsw. t0ht                                       3.039.     310.0  1.t12.E   1,404.3   3.034.'        u.c.
DoEBT   ICE
3Otal Dull  ars. ct Pasts                                539.,    92.5  1,104.9       5 7.7        I.4 *093.5
Iitersit                                               217.9    441.4    562.2      Z.         7 0. 7    717.6
Aortl::aaltn                                           71.5   t4:.l    544.7        1.7.1     201.7     230.9
Odt Smrvice  i a   e @4 Eaprts                            ILI      .0.9      *0.5      14.7        Z.1      30.2
BN E^Vi EIPll5"J@
:Olt 301ttotal t3                                          3.       3.6       4.3        .         :.        :.'
ISRD flhbursattotstl  eross dlordnums                      3.5      3.3      14.0      17.4       12.1      14.0
IOU det uer.ircevttal d1.1 s,vr:cv                          .        .5       2.0        .L        J.C       s e
1;1 Dotot&l DOD                                            3.1      0.9        M        0.6        0.5       0. t.
1;0 disbm snwtsltotal  gross diaasurns ts                 ----       .4  ----          ----
3Tin ec shr.ucelMal ddlt Sr,eC.                            0.2      ^.3       0.1       E.1 I       .1       to
.. - araforst: w  ll wavc:aue.
19-04 fern il!: 2l 5 fern bCtral Jtac
'i3CiN



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANt GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A. STATErENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986)
-US$ million---
Amount
Loan or                                                 (less cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
Number     Year    Borrower    Purpose                 Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
22 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                 277.3  37.5      -
1429      1977     Ecuador      Highways                17.5   -        4.4
1644      1978     Ecuador      Rural Development       18.0   -       12.7
1776      1980     Ecuador      Guayaquil Urban
Development            31.0   -      17.9
1882      1980     Ecuador      Highways                55.0   -       32.1
1991      1981     Ecuador      Rural Development       16.9   -       14.8
2044      1982     Ecuador      Rural Development       16.1   -       14.2
2096      1982     Ecuador      DFC                     60.0   -        3.0
2135      1982     Ecuador      Housing                 35.7   -       25.8
2171      1982     Ecuador      Education               16.0   -       14.6
2221      1983     Ecuador      Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit           40.6    -      3.4
2516 1I   1985     Ecuador      Public Sector
Management              6.0 2/        6.0
2626      1986     Ecuador      Agriculture Sector    100.0            80.0
2672 1/   1986     Ecuador      Industrial Finance    115.0           115.0
2673 _/   1986     Ecuador      Third Small-Scale
Enterprise Credit      30.0          30.0
Total                                      835.1  37.5
of which has been repaid                 175.8   2.9
Total now outstanding                      659.3  34.4
Amount sold                     3.2
of which has been repaid      3.2         -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA             659.3  34.4
Total undisbursed                                        373.9
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ US$8 million originally approved. Amount subsequently reduced at
Government's request.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATMlEN OF IFC INVESTMMETS (as of March 31, 1986)
Type of      (amount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year                                Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.       Textiles      3.7       0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982     S.A. (COFIEC)               DFC           -         0.5       0.5
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0         -         5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984          Cemento Nacional (CEM)       Cement       12.0       1.0      13.0
1980          Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/       Pulp and
Paper        3.3      1.0       4.3
1981          Compania Minera Toachi,
S.A.                       Mining         1.0      0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                  25.0       3.0      28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    21.1       1.7      22.8
Tota± commitments now held by IFC          3.9      1.3       5.2
Total undisbursed                         -         -         -
1/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



- 27
ANNEX III
POWER SECTrM INPROVKHKN PROJECT
SOPPLUKUTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: about 5 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Bank staff, with the assistance of INECEL.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1985
Cd) Appraisal mission: November 1985
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 16, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1986
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Terms of reference for the various project components were drafted with
the help of Bank staff during project preparation.
Section III - Special Condition
As a condition for disbursement of each corresponding project
component, INECEL would staff the Institutional Development Unit,
the Tariff Unit, the System Operation Unit and the Training Unit in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 28                                             ANNEX IV
Pafe 1-of 2
ECUADOR
POWER SECTOR IMPROVE4ENT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS FOR THE POWER SECTOR
(Millions of Current US$)
Footnote  ----Actual------- --Est--  ---------------- Forcst-----------------
Reference  1913      1964      1995     1996      1917      1989     1969      1990
Sales I6SSI
Buk to ENELEC                           (al        1079.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Retail Sales                                       199.0   3288.0   3539.0   3741.0   3992.0   4206.0   4491.0   4942.0
Total Sales                                    2948.0   3298.0   3S39.0   3741.0   3982.0   4206.0   4491.0   4942.0
Averae Tariff (UCrcnts/kWhl
as  to EINELEC                          (AD           2.5
Retail Sales                                          5.7       3.4      3.2       3.7       4.7      6.2       6.3      8.9
Total Average Tariff                 (1h           4.5      3.4       3.2       3.7      4.7       6.2      6.3       1.9
Operating Revenues
Iblk  o ENELEC                          (a)          27.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Retail Sales                                        105.7    111.4    113.6    13B.1    119.1    261.0    371.2    440.9
Other Revonues                                        3.0       2.2      1.5       1.6      2.5       3.4       4.8      5.3
Total Operating Revenues                               135.7    113 6    115.1    139.9    191.6    264.4    376.0    446.2
Operating Expenses
Fual and Lubrication                                    28.0      11.4      17.4     16.0      13.3      2.0       8.4       7.0
Operation and Naintnance                                71.9      34.2     46.6      49.0      58.5     63.1      71.5      92.0
ieneral I AdmisistratiIn                     (c)         0.0       9.9       3.0      3.0       3.3      3.9       4.5       4.7
Other                                        (c)         0.0       5.9       3.3      3.5       3.8      4.0       4.4       4.7
Depreciation                                            39.1      72.2     82.2      87.6      99.2    117.0    129.7    143.5
Total Operating Expenses                               138.9    133.6    152.S    159.2    179.1    190.0    216.5    241.9
perating Inco                                           -3.2    -20.0    -17.4    -19.3        13.5     74.4    157.5    204.3
Non-Operating IncOe  (netl                               0.2      -7.7     -2. t     -2.3      -2.5     -2.6      -3.1      -3.4
let Incoa  before Interest                              -3.0    -27.7    -39.5    -21.6        11.0     71.      154.4    200.9
Interest Charge                                         30.2      57.0     74.5      76.7     76.1      71.5      64.2     56.7
Less: Interest lring Construction                        5.0       5.2       6.0     11.6      10.6     11.9      12.6      13.7
Interest Charged to Operation                           25.2      52.6     69.5      65.1      65.5     59.7      51.6      43.0
Net Incoa                                              -29.2    -80.3   -100.0    -86.7    -54.5        11.9    102.8    157.9
:::::: 2. = :           = s:- =-- ..:s.=   =:-==  --   --.   , =   =
Rate Base                                             1077.0   1515.0   2274.0   2486.0   2725.0   3143.0   3433.0   3639.0
Rate of Return IXI                                      -0.3      -1.3     -1.6      -0.9       0.5      2.4       4.6       5.6
s= 322   32222U   333223 332332   332232   52232   523 ==-   = 2   me
(a)  Since 1984 total retail sales in the country have been considered, including
the EMELEC concession area.
(b)  Tariffs shown assume monthly nominal increases of 3% in Sucres starting December
1985. Local inflation considered was 21% in 1986, 19% in 1987, 16% in 1988 and
15% thereafter.
(c)  Figures for 1983 are included in Operation and Maintenance.



-29-
ANN= IV
Page 2 of 2
ECUADOR
POW  SECTOR IMPROVEMT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED SOURCES AND APPLICATiONS OF FUDS STATEMES FOR TIE POWE SECTOR
(Millions of Current US$)
-m iL-  -Et.-                              IW§tut                      Thta   I
£ 0 U NC £ I                      1963    1914~~~~~~~~~i  191  1916    1937    1U     13       1990    1M930  19111-90
cm   hu     trit                                 -.0    -7.7   -39.5   -21.1    l1.3    71.6   154.4   2.9   16.3              2.0
Klatiu                                          39.1.   n.2    12.2        7.       9.2   117.0   129.7   t43.   3177.        44.U
Uwr n-uea   npn                                   0        0.0                       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Ormui lteal Call   eratim                           1.     4.       42        .0   110.2        .    23.1    34.4       .       7J.4
wetItitm                                        21.0    51.0    51.9    56.4    60.2    15.1   109.2    96.7   401.X   31.4
lntirut Onn                                     30.2    57.       74.5    76.7    76.1    71.5    14.2    57    34.2   2Z.5
Tota Beat srvice                               51.2   113.3   1214        3.1   136.3   157.3   1734    153.4   75.5    S.0
L" Ea uto    Wring Cmnituctinm                  ao0      3.2      b.0     I.6    10.1    11.1    12.6    1S.7 Jo.3            4
(et hot Sevice                                 11.2   101.6   120.4   121.1   125.7   145.5   160.1   139.7   693.2    4.4
.t Intenal Cub       atiU                        -15.1   -6.1    -77.7   -`5.5   -t.S    43.1   12L3    204.7   300.2    22.1
rpnad [lo  Lou                                    0.0      0.0      0.0     1.5      3.e      2.7     1.1      0.2      3.5     0.7
RhEr mw stiq Lams                                40.5    39.3    60.5    03.1        3.3    26.6      0.0      0.0 e 213.4     1.3
Fitwv Lsu                                         LO       0.0      0.0    10.      30.0    20.0    47.0    92.1   199.1   1S
rea   rrmuip                                   401    Of.3    60 .  0.1 115.0   22         49.     41    92.    421.         3S
iktiuil Eectrificatiou  Pad                     211.0   135.3   132.3   132.3   139.1    17.4   203.L    10.7   54.1    41.7
Bseoreuint Cutrtbticii                           33.2    25.0    20.1    31.4        0.0      0.e     O.O.    0.0    Sl.4       2.4
W. v wcu                                          16.3     02       5.4     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.O      0.o
TOTI. Sa111!                                   2.2   209.7   161.3   2432    244.9   229.3   27            30J.7   2300.2   0L.o
APPL I C  TI IDNS
Cestructim   Pre
thquzq  U  =ur Vwts                            214.5   174.4   1M.0  2M.2   244.5   219.5   219   230.0  1204.1                2.
P ned Frajct                                     0.0      0.0      0.0     2.1      4.2      3.7      1.5     0.3    11.5      L.
Sub totaL                                    214.5   174.4    11.0    m.s    24.7   223.2  20.5   210.3  121L.o    93.
intrst Cwitag Construction                       3.0      5.2     6.0    1l.4      10.6    11.D    12.6    13.7    10.3        4.6
Totat Castubon Proram                        Z19.5   179.1   204.0   244.9   259.3   2L0    243.1   294.0  12713    91.
Vanatla  in Uarylq Coital                         7S.7    30.1   -43.0    -L        -14.3    -52    31.3    I3.7    Z.9          1.1
rOTAL WPLICA T                               2932      09.7     6.0   24.2   244.9   229.            4   307.7   10.1 l100.0
Supumm m (eitm eoM .o                        .o  .mml Mt .0                  .
Surplus   (deficit)                             0.0.     .0      0.3       .0      .0       .0      0.1      .0       .0



- 30 -
ANNEX V
ECUADOR
POWER SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TARIFF INFORMATION
Final consumer tariffs are structured by blocks and each of INECEL's
subsidiaries has a different tariff level. The main difference is regional,
the utilities of the coastal plain having average higher levels than those of
the Sierra. Except for kWh (energy) and kW (demand) charges for block
deliveries and some industrial users, all tariffs are on a straight kWh basis
with no allowance for peak/off peak costs. Consumers are divided into
residential (category Rl up to 60 kWh/month and R2 between 60 and 200
kWh/month), commercial (3 different levels), industrial (3 different levels)
public lighting, official services, non-profit organizations and others
(water pumping for official services and irrigation for agriculture). The
table that follows shows tariff values for November 1985.
Number of       Average          Total        Average
Tariff Group*         Subscribers    Consumption    Comsumption    Tariff
(000)         (kWh/mo)        (GWh/mo)       (USc/kWh)
R-1                 393.7                39          15.4           1.5
R-2                 209.7               257          54.0           3.3
c-1                  50.6                40           2.0           2.1
C-2                  50.1               380          19.0           3.4
C-3                   0.6            9,417            6.0           3.8
I-I                   7.6               463           3.5           3.3
i-2                   7.6               817          34.7           3.6
I-3                  0.003       1,543,666            4.6           3.2
Other                 6.8             2,617          17.8           3.0
Total               726.9               216         157.0           3.2
(without EMELEC)
* R= residential
C= commercial
I= industrial



- 31 -
ANNEX VI
ECUADOR
POWER SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
List of Goods and Studies to be Financed
(Proposed Loan and Loan 2516-EC)
(in US$'000 of December 1985)
1.   Studies
1.1  Institutional Development                                   2,110   1/
1.2  Tariffs                                                       475
1.3  Power System Operation                                       1,140
1.4  Training Planning                                              120
Subtotal                                                    3,845
2.   Equipment
2.1  Computer Sets                                                  460
2.2  Metering and Telemetering                                      515
2.3  Power System Simulators                                      1,200
2.4  Training Elements                                              720
2.5  Vehicles                                                        95
Sub-Total                                                   2,990
3.   Training
3.1  On-the-Job and Courses abroad                                  390
3.2  Technical Assistance                                           285
Sub-Total                                                      675
Total Base Line Cost                                              7,510
Physical Contingencies                                              751
Cost with Physical Contingencies                                  8,261
Price Contingencies                                               1,239
Total with Contingencies                                          9,500
1/ Loan 2516-EC would finance US$790,000 plus contingencies, up to a
maximum of US$1 million.



- 32 -
ANNE VII
POER S3=  DED WrX
PimeCt Tnplltem  Sdde
aE of    Prqosui  Prnpoa    antat   Sart of    Thterlm    TuItirl
l eef        ,PaWst     0       s4pIg       Sl        PPMs      of Sba I
A. Sbt
A.1 Istdwal D         t         Ju  86    Jum  86    g. 86    ort. 86  tbv. 86  oCt. 87    Dc  89
(Parts A ad B)                                                                   Oct. 8B
A.2  arff Sm=r                  My  86    My  86   Ji=e86    Iiiy 86   kg. 86   Jily 87    July 88
A.3     n      tslem qomdm  wnWmmt    May  86   Ih   86   Jum86    Jiy 86   Ag. 86   liy 87    Jd   88
A.4 fra gplIadzg                Juoe 86    Jily 86   Jily86    Ag. 86   kg. 86  Jix  87    Ja.88
1rdtsl   Bid Dx.   Pups1l    Bid   l At   Idtiatimi                  l
B.1 a=__ 
- M= amp       aad         Apil 86    -          Apr. 86   KW  86   Jm   86   Sept 86    Oct  86
OM  F
-MnFz     Ew sir           Jm  86    -           Jul  86   SEPt 86   tb' 86   Feb  87    Apr  87
B.2  ters are TaIaiarg
EwipoEm                    iy  86    -           M3y  86   J.L 86   Ag. 86   lbv. 86    Feb 87
B.3 Per Systemn Slak 
- berlmats( ICB)            S    8pt   CkO  86  Ok   86   Dr  86   Feb  87   Feb  87    Apr  88
-birSystem IB)              NN  86    Ir  86   ec  86   Feb  87   Apr  87   Apr  88    Ja  88
BA 1mirnig Elsat
- Fist It
- Ltlot
B.5 Vlicl             Ecdstixg    -                   M4y  86   J.ue 86   July 86   Sept 86       t  86



- 33 -
ANNEX VIII
ECUADOR
POWER SECTOR IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$' 000)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element      ICB        LIB    OTHER3/  Consultants  Training4/        Cost
Studies                                             6750          150         6900
(4695)2/     (150)       (4845)1/
Computers                       408       175                                  583
(408)    (175)                                (583)
Metering
Equipment                     464       200                                 664
(464)    (200)                                (664)
Power System
Simulators         1535                                                     1535
(1535)                                                  (1535)
Training
Elements                      778       125                     115         1018
(778)    (125)                     -          (903)
Training                                                         1010         1010
(850)       (850)
Vehicles                        120                                            120
(120)                                         (120)
TOTAL             1535      1770       500       6750          1275       11830
(1535)    (1770)    (500)      (4695)        (1000)     (9500)
1/     Figures in parenthesis are the respective amount to be financed by the
Bank.
2/     To be contracted through short list of consultants or with individual
consultants.
3/     Direct purchasing for off-the-shelf items of less than USS20,000.
4/     On-the-Job training courses and experts will be arranged following ad-hoc
procedures.



IBRD 19042
C O L O M  B I A
ECUADOR                           .S
NATIONAL INTERCONNECTED
SYSTEM
230 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
_ 131 kV TRANSWSSION LINES
-+        DOUBLE ORCUIT LINES                                                                                     0 
HYDRO POWER PLANTS
* THERMAL POWER PLANTS                                                                      IMW
*   SUBSTATIONS                                                                             66 M.W.
MAIN ROADS                 a"                                     I 
IVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
mtOM!1~~~~~\  °5  ....... "0 //,x4 0 2    M.W
O .15    20 ,  1 40 ,J    °,m > \3w     
3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
mmso    io 'g a      o        /    \               
PACIFIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6*b
P A C I f / C              E              
0 C   fA N                                                II                            gwona 7r
Gulf of               t              -{/cnt yArAKD
-3.A                                                                                                          OCEA
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGS 1985 
,vr        L                s.1   <  ~~~~~~~~~s o u r H 
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M_ E R. I C A  7-' .I,
---- / ~~P E R U :#/ON
AUGUST 1985






