Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22936
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-441 10)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR A
REGIONAL INITIATIVES FUND
NOVEMBER 5,2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 25, 2001)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev, plural Leva (BGN)
BGN I = US$ 0.45
US$ 1 = BGN 2.20
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALMPs Active Labor Market Programs
BIA           Beneficiary Impact Assessments
BSOs          Business Support Organizations
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
EU            European Union
GEF           Global Environmental Facility
ICB           Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMPs          Innovative Micro-Projects
LGI           Local Govermnent Initiative
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MOLSP         Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGOs          Non-Government Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PLEDGE        Partners in Local Economic Development and Government Effectiveness
PMU           Project Management Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RIF           Regional Initiatives Fund
SMEs          Small and Medium Enterprises
TEP           Temporary Employment Prograam
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:    Michal Rutkowski
_         ~~~~Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Peter Pojarski



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BULGARIA
REGIONAL INITIATIVES FUND
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     6
6. Sustainability                                                                         7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        8
9. Partner Comments                                                                      17
10. Additional Information                                                               18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                      28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                    32
Annex 10. Sample Social Assessment of a RIF Micro-project                                33
Annex 11. Government Comments on the ICR                                                 46
Annex 12. Analysis of the Achievement of Outputs                                          47
Annex 13. List of Micro-projects Funded by RIF from the World Bank LIL, by Region        55
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P055156                                       Project Name. REGIONAL INITIATIVES FUND
Team Leader: Peter Ivanov Pojarski                        TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Tvpe: Intensive Learning Model ILAM) of ICR           Report Date. November 5 2001
1. Project Data
Name: REGIONAL INITIATIVES FUND                      L/C/TFNumber. SCL-44110
Country/Department: BULGARIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: SA - Social Assistance; SE - Labor Markets &
Employment; US - Urban Environment
KEY DATES
Original           Rev ised/Actual
PCD:  03/27/1998                              Effective: 02/17/1999          02/17/1999
Appraisal:  04/15/1998                                MTR: 08/01/1999            11/09/1999
Approval:  11/20/1998                              Closing: 04/30/2001          04/30/2001
Borrower/Implemnenting Agency.  GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA/Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP)
Other Partners: UNDP, USAID
STAFF                Cuirent                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country AManager:    Andrew N. Vorkink                          Kenneth Lay
Sector Manager:      Michal Rutkowski                           Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:   Peter Pojarski                            Mary Beth Schmidt
ICR Prima7y Auithor:   Peter Pojarski
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Oultcoine: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Perjbrmance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Timie: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
In 1998, Bulgaria was one of the poorest countries in Central and Eastern Europe (Project
Appraisal Document, hereafter "PAD", p. 2). In addition to unemployment among low-skilled poor



minorities, labor market developments in the 1990s contributed to swelling unemployment among more
skilled workers in the state sector. While refonns were expected to have a positive impact on growth, which
would improve living standards over the medium terrn, there was a need to protect the poor and vulnerable
from the heavy and inevitable social burden associated with economic restructuring and privatization. In
response to these challenges, the Government requested Bank assistance for a Social Investment Fund
Project to help the population deal with the social costs of transition. The World Bank team proposed that
a US$ 5 million equivalent Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) be extended to the Government of Bulgaria
to enable the Government to test and promote different approaches to temporary and longer-term
employment through the pilot Regional Initiatives Fund (RIF), to be followed by a larger loan based on the
lessons leamed under the LIL. The Bank proposed the LIL because it enabled the Bank to respond more
quickly to the Government's urgent request than a traditional investment loan. Moreover, the World Bank
team wanted key stakeholders and the public to ascertain what a social fund mechanism could and could
not accomplish in Bulgaria so that expectations of a proposed Social Investment Fund (SIF) Project would
be realistic. The two-year leaming phase would also allow the Government to build consensus for the
objectives and delivery mechanisms for the SIF.
Development Objective
The projects development objective was to test the social fund mechanism as a means of improving
the standard of living among the poor and unemployed during the economic transition. Specifically, the
project would test the cost and benefits of using micro-projects as a means to transfer income to the poor
and vulnerable groups through temporary employment creation, while at the same time using poor labor to
build infrastructure for development. The results were expected to justify creation of a SIF as an
autonomous Government agency with a particular social protection mandate and regulations to enable it to
capitalize on local initiatives in a cost-effective manner.
3 2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3 3 Original Components:
Component                         Cost                         Rating
1. Micro Projects                      $4,700,000.00                       HS
2. Labor Market Analysis                $400,000.00                         S
3. Project Management                  $1,200,000.00                        S
3.4 Revised Components:
None
5 Quality at Entry:
There was no QAG review at entry. The ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory because: (a)
the design was consistent with the CAS and addressed the pressing issues; (b) there was excellent
collaboration between the Bank, the Government and other stakeholders including NGOs and potential
beneficiaries; (c) there was optimal use of country office resources and extensive donor participation; and
(d) the loan produced satisfactory outcomes based on the stated development objectives.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Ouitcome/achievement of objective:
The Project outcome is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS).
-2 -



The data from the project analyzed at different stages of project implementation (initial, mid-term,
closing) show consistently that the project is effectively reaching the poor and unemployed, and creating
tangible benefits for the local communities, including temporary and long-term employment, improved
social services and small infrastructure. The project is achieving the goal of rehabilitating socially
important infrastructure and raising the standards of living of vulnerable populations and geographically
and economically disadvantaged communities. Small municipalities with high unemployment have been the
major RIF partners, with micro projects largely reaching the poorest and most disadvantaged areas.
The outcome with respect to temporary employment creation and income generation, although
somewhat below initial expectations, was satisfactory overall. (The level of technology in the Bulgarian
construction industry has a high level of mechanization where lowest costs are achieved through a high
capital to labor ratio. The parameters used to forecast labor contents at appraisal proved to be somewhat
higher than the actual values in the industry.)
A nurnber of non-infrastructure projects were also implemented by RIF, creating longer-term jobs
and building the capacity of local NGOs to implement community-driven projects. These included
initiatives to assist  ethnic-minority communities and regions particularly hard hit by enterprise
restructuring. The RIF's social mandate and flexible procedures proved efficient in reaching these areas
and communities.
Last but not least, the project has created an administrative unit with an excellent level of technical
capacity, performing well in terms of timeliness and quality of output. The project has established a model
that the Government is eager to institutionalize and use for channeling funds to the social sectors.
Accordingly, a SIF law, satisfactory to the Bank, was approved by Parliament on March 22, 2001.
The RIF project was very successful in catalyzing resources from other aid agencies as well as the
Government's budget. Government and other donors who have contributed to the project and to the efforts
for its sustainability. The US Agency for Intemational Development granted US$ 8 million to the
Government for RIF activities and RIF/SIF (Social Investment Fund) transition, as well as two regional
micro-credit guarantee schemes. The Government itself also added another BGN 16 million to finance
more infrastructure micro-projects. The Bank-financed project eventually leveraged three times the original
loan amount.
Finally, the results with respect to sustainability were also very good. In March 2001, Parliament
passed the SIF Law mentioned above, which created the SIF as an autonomous Govemment agency with a
particular social protection mandate and regulations that enable it to capitalize on local community
initiatives.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The RIF Project successfully built capacity in the MOLSP to efficiently and rapidly channel
resources to municipalities with high rates of unemployment and poverty. It demonstrated that grants can
simultaneously create short term jobs and improve infrastructure and facilities that are critical to preserving
access to education, healthcare, water, sanitation and efficient transport. The Project's achievements
resulted in the creation of the SIF to pursue poverty reduction objectives through temporary job creation,
restoration and preservation of basic services, strengthening of local governments, and promotion of small
enterprises. A detailed presentation and analysis of the achievements of outputs and targets are presented
in Annex 12.
-3 -



As indicated by the monitoring indicators (Table A below), the RIF Project exceeded some output
goals that were critical to achieving the development objectives. These included the nwnber of
microprojects proposed, the number of microprojects implemented, average cost sharing by municipalities,
number of microprojects implemented in municipalities with high unemployment, and percentage of
long-term unemployed hired. It fell short, however, of its aims for 45 percent labor content and 280,000
labor days created.
Table A. RIF Project Monitoring Indicators (Components I and 3)
Project Development Objective: Improve standards of living among poor and unemployed groups
during transition
1     Target: 70 percent of microproject resources devoted to municipalities with unemployment rate
higher than average
Actual: 100 percent; municipalities with microprojects averaged 28.34 percent unemployment
2.    Target:    [higher] percent of microproject resources devoted to municipalities with
lower-than-average level of social and economic development
Actual: 95 percent for first 49 micro-projects (MPs) (this indicator was dropped subsequently
because data became unavailable
Project Output 1:  Temporary employment and associated increase in earnings and skills
maintenance
I     Target: 280,000 labor days of employment generated
Actual:  154,000 (at loan closing date - number will increase as micro-projects funded by
additionally leveraged sources proceed)
2     Target: Average wage in microprojects as percent of national average wage
Actual: 101 percent according to contractors; 93 percent according to workers; monthly wage of
newly hired laborers averaged 95 percent of national average according to contractors; averaged 86
percent of national average according to workers
3.    Target: 20 percent of laborers hired from lists of long-tenn (>6 months) unemployed
Actual: 53 percent hired from unemployed >12 months
Project Output 2: Improved quality and availability of basic social and economic services in localities
receiving microprojects
1.    Target: 75 percent level of satisfaction among the beneficiaries for assets created or rehabilitated
by microprojects
Actual: 90 percent
Project Output 3: Enhanced prospects for employment through developing skills among private
firms and public institutions to plan and execute microprojects
I     Target: 5 bidders per tender on average
Actual: 5 bidders average for small works/minimum 3 quotations; 15 average for NCB
2.    Target: Increasing responsiveness of bids to announced tenders over time
Actual: not available
3.    Target: 100 percent intermediaries participate in bid evaluation
Actual: 100 percent
Project Output 4: Creation of RIF as a new, innovative and cost-effective mechanism for social
protection that capitalizes on local initiative
1.    Target: Cost per person day of employment created (no target cost given)
Actual: 67-76 Lev
-4 -



2.     Target: 45 percent average labor content for microprojects
Actual: 24 percent
3.     Target:  percent of microproject wage payments going to unskilled laborers (no target percent
given)
Actual: more than 16%
4.     Target: 250 initial microproject proposals submitted
Actual: over 2000
5.     Target: 80 percent of initial microproject proposals submitted with cost sharing greater than 10
percent
Actual: 100 percent; average cost sharing 16 percent
Component 1: Microprojects: Implementation of about 100 microprojects in accordance with
Operations Manual
1.    Target: 10 microprojects specifically create employment opportunities for women
Actual:  0 infrastructure microprojects and 3 innovative microprojects can be defined as
specifically creating employment opportunities for women
2.     Target: 10 microprojects specifically create employment opportunities for disadvantaged ethnic
minorities
Actual: 6 (this refers only to micro-projects from the Innovative category, which were specifically
designed to target minorities; in addition to that, minorities comprise 54 percent of workers hired
for all other microprojects.)
3.     Target: 80 percent of microprojects completed on schedule and within budget
Actual: no schedule data available; 44 percent of contracts have budget change orders, averaging
+4.3 percent of original contract value
4.     Target: US$45,000 is average cost of microprojects
Actual: US$67,700
Component 3: Project Management: Supervision of microprojects and development of SIF by PMU
1.    Target: Evaluations, financial reports and audits delivered on time
Actual: 100%
2.     Target: PMU makes recommendations to the Steering Committee on SIF design and regulations by
September 30, 1999
Actual: PMU made recommendations on draft SIF bill by September 30, 1999; SIF bill became
law in March 2001
3.     Target: Government submits SIF plan to the World Bank by November 30, 1999
Actual: Regulations and ordinance for SIF drafted in May-June 2001; pending revision by new
Bulgarian Government;
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of r eturn:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had high institutional development impact on several levels.
On the central level the project has created an administrative unit at the Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy (MOLSP) with an excellent level of technical capacity, performing well in terms of timeliness
- 5 -



and quality of output. More importantly, at the end of the project (March 2001), the Bulgarian Parliament
passed a Law for the Social Investment Fund (SIF) that legally created a larger social fund to expand the
work of the pilot RIF.
On the local level, local governments gained significant experience in project identification,
preparation and implementation. The RIF strengthened the municipalities' approach to community-driven
development as well as their capacity to conduct public procurement and implement and supervise projects.
The RIF project also indirectly strengthened local firms which had to meet set standards and abide
by established procedures for extemally funded -projects, which are to become the standard in public
procurement as well.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Donor coordination
Donor coordination under the RIF Project was an excellent example of best practice. The RIF was
an effective mechanism for diverse government agencies and donors to work together. The project
attacted and managed funds from the World Bank and two other international donors - USAID and
UNDP, as well as significant additional financing from the Bulgarian Government. RIF activities did not
conflict with existing Bulgarian legislation and regulations, while donors agreed to the use of one commnon
set of procurement procedures and documents.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government managed the factors under its control satisfactorily. More specifically:
-   The Steering Committee's diverse representation from tripartite partners encouraged consultation
and consensus building, but it would benefit from greater transparency and input from more diverse
partners. A more diverse oversight board would reduce perceptions that political influence determines
microproject prioritization and approval. Greater transparency is key.
*  A large portfolio of infrastructure microprojects can be managed with a small, centrally-located
team using contracted firms and individuals to perform routine tasks. PMU staff had an incentive to
perform well because they had good remuneration, renewable contracts, and regular performance
evaluations.
* Studies were essential for assessing impacts, but more efforts are needed to transform lessons into
policy and procedural revisions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Implementing Agency's performance was satisfactory throughout the project, and the rating at
the ICR-stage is highly satisfactory. The RIF's minimum bureaucratic features, which ensured rapid
response to proposals, was one of its most important characteristics that need to be preserved under the
SIF.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was US$ 6.3 million (DEM 9.09 million) equivalent. Financing included a
Bank Loan of US$ 5.0 million, Government contribution of US$ 0.3 million, UNDP contribution of US$
0.4 million and contributions from municipalities and NGOs totalling US$ 0.6 million. In addition, USAID
provided US$ 8 million, and the Government - BGN 16 million to extend the project.
- 6 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Sustainability of the project is assessed as Highly Likely for the following reasons:
*   It resulted in the creation of a larger Social Investment Fund (SIF). SIF was created with an Act of the
Parliament (the Law for the Social Investment Fund). Shortly after the passage of the SIF Law, the
SIF Steering Committee (defined by the law) was constituted and had its first meetings. The Steering
Committee is now working on the secondary legislation (sub-regulations) that will make SIF
operational.
*   The micro-projects funded under the project were in most cases implemented by partnerships involving
beneficiaries and community administrations (municipalities), and were backed up by municipal
budgets. It can be expected that the created assets will continue to be maintained by the recipient
community.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The RIF has been managed by the Govemment of Bulgaria with technical assistance from UNDP.
By the end of 2001, UNDP will phase out of RIF, and RIF will transfer all its assets and active project
portfolio to the new SIF. The Steering Committee of the SIF has already been constituted, and is now in
the process of drafting intemal regulations for its operations. These regulations will also address the
transfer of assets and portfolio from RIF to SIF.
In addition, the Bank is in the process of discussion with the Government of a new Country
Assistance Strategy, where a new operation in support of the SIF is envisaged.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance is assessed as Highly Satisfactory. There were no issues with procurement
or disbursement on the side of the Bank resulting in problems with project performance. The single request
by the Govemment for an Amendment to the Loan Agreement was processed in due time and without
delays.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's intensive and continuous supervision is rated Highly Satisfactory. The RIF was also
one of the first operations with task management delegated to the field.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on the Highly Satisfactory Lending and Supervision performance, overall Bank performance
is rated Highly Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The participation of the Government in the preparation of the project has been Highly Satisfactory
at all levels.
7.5 Government implementation perfnrmance:
The Government's implementation performance has been Satisfactory. The Government promoted
and supported transparent selection procedures based on a "tripartite" Steering Committee - a
decision-making body consisting of representatives of different government agencies, and independent labor
- 7 -



and employer organizations. Thus RIF has become a largely "consensus" organization, able to balance and
avoid to a reasonable extent any distorting influences to its selection and implementation procedures.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. The Regional Initiatives
Fund administration (unit) under the supervision of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MOLSP) was
the implementing agency. Assisted by UNDP technical assistance, MOLSP created the RIF administration
during the project preparation stage. Bank, UNDP and external reviews recognize the RIF administration
as a technically skilled and experienced institution, able to allocate the funding according to the set criteria
of the social fund.
Project management was rated Highly Satisfactory or Satisfactory by the World Bank throughout
the Project. This was mainly due to the strength and professionalism of the RIF administration (PMU),
supported by UNDP technical assistance. Procurement, financial management, and contract management
were areas of particular strength while prioritization of project applications (by municipalities and NGOs)
and appraisal of social aspects of these applications were areas needing improvement.
Regular reports and data on project management, procurement, disbursements, and
financial status of micro-projects were made available to the Bank. The audit reports were also
provided on time.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower has been pro-active and results-oriented in project preparation and implementation -
through the involved Government agencies, other stakeholders, and the Implementing Agency. Based on
the assessment of all aspects of the Borrower performance, overall performance is rated Highly
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Accumulating experience and lessons learned was a main goal of the Regional Initiatives Fund
Project financed by a Bank LIL.
The implementing Government unit (the RIF) presented its views on the achievements and lessons
learned. To consolidate and systematize lessons learned from the RIF Project, the Government and the
World Bank also conducted a series of seminars with stakeholders.
8.1. Summary of Lessons Learned
As expected, the three-year RIF pilot produced important lessons for improving and expanding the
social fund model in Bulgaria. The major lessons are presented below in three categories: (i) policy level;
(ii) management and administration level; and (iii) at the level of social fund operations. While there were
many lessons learned from the RIF, the list below is limited to those that have the greatest bearing on the
imnediate evolution of the project into a full-fledged social fund.
Policy-Level Lessons Learned
1. Microprojects can simultaneously create short-term jobs and improve infrastructure and
facilities that are critical to preserving Bulgaria's human resources and expanding private sector
employment and growth. They protect and create vital public assets and have a positive impact on local
- 8 -



service availability and labor market extemalities.  While microprojects may not be cost-effective
alternatives to cash transfers to the poor, both the employment in well-targeted micro-projects and the
public goods they create can reduce poverty.
2. Microprojects can contribute to Bulgaria's broader efforts to decentralize the provision of
public goods and services to local governments in a way that also helps local governments fight poverty.
The experience of social funds around the world suggests that delegation of microproject preparation and
implementation tasks to local governments bodes well for greater benefits in terms of local govemance,
accountability, local capacity building and sustainability of local services. The SIF could contribute more
to effective decentralization by investing in training and capacity building activities directly or through
other government programs, and by improving its methodologies and capacity to appraise institutional
capacity of local governments during microproject appraisal.
3. The RIF Steering Committee composition and its operation raised some questions of bias and
political favoritism. To reduce perceptions of bias and discretionary approval of microprojects, the SIF
oversight board will need to be more open and transparent.
4. Microprojects create tension between maximizing labor content and increasing social impacts.
The RIF's emphasis on labor content resulted in minimization of equipment (e.g. boilers and desks) and
limited the RIF's efforts to give a more effective and complete solution to problems. The challenge for the
SIF is to maximize the impact of its investments by using its leverage to attract (and help communities
attract) other sources of funding including volunteer or in-kind support from community members, and to
apply the best technical expertise to optimize every investment dollar. The SIF also will need to do a better
job of monitoring whether intended vulnerable groups are benefiting from microprojects, so that policies
and procedures can be considered to make microprojects more pro-poor.
Lessons from RIF Management and Administration
1. Keeping bureaucracy at a minimum is essential to ensure rapid response to proposals. This is
one of the most important characteristics of the RIF that needs to be preserved under the SIF.
2. A social fund can be an effective mechanism for diverse government agencies and external aid
agencies to work together so long as they agree on and adhere to a common set of hiring, procurement,
financial management, and reporting guidelines. Microprojects can and should be aligned with existing
Bulgarian legislation and regulations.
3. The Steering Committee's tripartite representation encourages consultation and consensus
building but would benefit from greater transparency and input from more diverse partners. A more
diverse SIF oversight board would help reduce perceptions that political influence determines microproject
prioritization and approval. Transparency is key.
4. Municipalities have the potential to conduct procurement in accordance with World Bank
guidelines provided training and oversight are available in a timely fashion.
5. A larger portfolio of infrastructure microprojects can be managed with a small,
centrally-located staff using contracted firms and individuals to perform routine tasks. PMU staff had an
incentive to perform well because they had good remuneration, one-year renewable contracts, regular
performance evaluations, and access to computers, telecommunications, cars and other equipment to
perform their functions. RIF staff represent a well-trained pool of candidates to be considered for SIF
-9-



employees. However, with foreign direct investment picking up in Bulgaria, it might be difficult to retain
for SIF experienced and well trained staff from RIF. The RIF experience also revealed the difficulty in
attracting excellent managerial skills. Experience from other social funds in the region suggest that it takes
12-18 months for top managers to grow into their positions and to become advocates for social fund
objectives and policies and leaders/mentors of their staff.
6. Bulgaria's construction industry was tested and produced good quality designs and bill of
quantities (BoQs) and conducted efficient and effective inspection. However, local capacity to conduct
social analysis, community organizing and social impact evaluations will need to be strengthened. As
social analysis and impact evaluation were a weaker side of the RIF process, staffing and training of the
SIF will need to place greater emphasis on creating a capacity that could assist municipalities in this area
as well.
7. The Technical review, beneficiary assessments and the poverty assessment conducted for RIF
were useful for assessing impacts but would have been more useful with better methodologies, quality
control and repetition. More efforts will be needed under the SIF to transform lessons into policy
altematives and procedural revisions.
8. The social fund infrastructure-type policies, procedures and human resources are not fully
appropriate for preparing, appraising, monitoring and evaluating non-infrastructure micro-projects (e.g.
business support activities) and active labor market policy measures. More specialized human resources
will have to be tapped to prepare any business support and credit component of the SIF and to develop
policies and an operations manual and advise on management structure and skills mix. With a broader
prc,file, SIF management will need to build daily operational links with the functional branches of MOLSP.
These operational links cannot be fully substituted by more frequent meetings of the Steering Committee.
Lessons from RIF Operating Procedures
1. The Government's desire to rapidly implement microprojects created a distortion in the
filtering of microproject applications. Together with the objective-related prioritization criteria,
microprojects were also prioritized according to readiness of designs and BoQ. The schedule and deadlines
for processing applications should be to more flexible to allow municipalities sufficient time to prepare
applications and the PMU time for verification, desk review and field appraisal in accordance with the
Operations Manual.
2. "Exclusive" and "ranking" criteria for micro-project proposals need to be revisited to ensure
they are simple, reflect the priorities and objectives of the SIF, and perform their intendedfunction.
8.2. Implementing Agency Input: Results and Lessons Learned
(This section presents the views of the implementing agency - the regional Initiatives Fund at the
Ministry of Labor and Social Policy)
8.2.1. Target strategy, objective setting and impact on the lives of vulnerable
In numeric terms the short-term (S/T) employment generation objective has not been fully
achieved. The RIF experience showed that the indicator of 45 percent average and 30 percent minimum
labor content was hardly achievable, because of the nature of the construction practices in the country. The
construction business in the country has achieved a high level of capital intensity, mechanization and
- 10-



vertical and horizontal integration. That implies that the initial targets for labor content were unrealistic.
Linked to that, the lower-than-planned S/T employment effect may be considered as reasonable in this
context.
As regards the perception of RIF by ethnic minorities and prospective beneficiaries the project is
rather successful - with 90.5 percent level of satisfaction among the RIF beneficiaries; and with 63 percent
ethnic minority members among those employed under the micro-projects.
The project proved successful as regards the number and quality of tangible assets rehabilitated
and newly built. In view of the huge expectations raised in the RIF beginning it was important that RIF
was not limited geographically, despite the limited funds available under the project.
Therefore, as regards the target strategy, objective setting and impact on the lives of vulnerable, it can
be concluded that:
*   Like other Social funds operating worldwide, the RIF faced a fundamental dilemma: whether the
primary goal in the long run is to deliver social infrastructure to vulnerable groups and
municipalities, or to help the communities and their representative bodies develop themselves in
terms of defining their needs and their own capacity to meet them. With regard to this, it is
essential to look for relevant alternatives in the scope of the investment portfolio.  When
infrastructure works are concerned it is more important to deliver them, to construct them as a
prerequisite of economic growth and improving living conditions.  On the contrary, when
innovative or credit projects are concerned it is obvious that the stress is on building capacity and
entrepreneurial skills. However, these objectives, though different, are not mutually exclusive.
*   Employment generation, and specifically S/T employment generation, should not be seen as an
exclusive goal. This goal should go hand in hand with the goals of improving the living conditions,
stimulating private business, capacity building with regard to technical skills, economic and
financial skills, market articulation of individuals and institutions.
*   Investment in public utilities is largely recognized as a factor of economic growth. Attaining
sustainable growth is a strategic goal to Bulgaria, and therefore, the investment strategy of a future
larger Social Investment Fund (SIF) should take it into account. Infrastructure investment should
be better targeted and better coordinated so as to approach both the goal of reducing unemployment
and the goal of economic growth. Therefore the infrastructure investment program should be
aligned with the respective government development programs officially adopted on central,
regional and local levels.
8.2.2. Institutional relationships, management, sustainability
Cooperation with Government Agencies (Ministries) and International Institutions
International cooperation (World Bank, UNDP, and USAID) on RIF proved beneficial with regard
to RIF's autonomy and observing the principles of transparency and objectivity. The personnel policy and
organization of RIF was conducted in tight cooperation between MOLSP and UNDP, the latter playing the
role of employer and formal fund manager. UNDP involvement brought better working conditions, and
more accountability. According to the implementing agency WB procurement regulations proved to be the
most beneficial effect of RIF's international status. This opinion is largely shared among RIF partners on
central and local level, specifically among municipalities (intermediaries) and contractors.
MOLSP had a crucial role in providing a sound political support for RIF operational autonomy.
This combination of operative autonomy and political backing proved to be key for the success of the RIF
project. MOLSP was a natural broker with other line Ministries such as the Ministry of Regional
Development and Public Works, Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Health. MOLSP was
- 11 -



ready to intervene even on operational level so as to get things done in due time.
Cooperation with local authorities
Local authorities, represented by municipal mayors and municipal councils, proved to be RIF's
most important partners, as more than 90 percent of the RIF funds were directed to infrastructure. Sinice
by law they are owners of the assets built and are responsible for operation and maintenance, they wanted
le participate also in the investment process. RIF succeeded in setting excellent relationships with most of
the participating municipalities (more than 1 1 6.) The process of capacity building was two-way: municipal
people helped the implementing agency adapt RIF regulations to local legislation and construction
practices; and RIF helped them through with foreign regulations and procedures.
Local authorities proved to be a reliable partner to RIF throughout the whole project cycle. The ex
ante and ex post beneficiaries assessment surveys RIF carried out did not show large differences between
communities' and local governments' priorities and expectations.
Cooperation with NGOs
NGOs have been more active in training and capacity building projects than in conceiving and
managing construction projects as is the case worldwide. This focus is understandable because (1) they are
not owners of the assets built; (2) they are lacking expertise to meet very specific professional construction
standards; and (3) most of them are not in the position to secure cash contribution.
On the other hand the NGOs were successful in identifying and bringing about innovative projects
that aim at capacity building and training. Under the Loan Guarantee Scheme they were a dependable
partner that assisted the Fund in the identification and shortlisting of investment projects.
Cooperation with the business sector
Although the RIF had not had formal relationships with construction companies, it succeeded to
cooperate with them to meet requirements of foreign investors. Many companies that worked on RIF sites
became very well acquainted with WB procurement and disbursement procedures, creating a capacity for
the future.
Management
The RIF project developed a simple and efficient management structure. It was based on the
principles of: (1) delegation of decision making power to the respective units and specialists; (2) delegation
of controlling flmctions and responsibilities to outside entities (companies); (3) concentration of decision
rraking power regarding budget planning, procurement, financial accountability.
Adhering to these principles, the implementing agency avoided creating inefficient complicated
a(dministration and a protracted project cycle. RIF built capacity that allowed each technical officer to be
a real project manager being in charge of the whole project cycle.
Sustainability
Whether autonomous or part of the government structure, RIF investments (in social and economic
irfrastructure) are to be maintained and operated by local authorities. RIF specialists have their most
serious reservations regarding this issue. RIF was sought mostly to invest in rehabilitation works because
of municipalities' inability to plan and raise sufficient funds for capital investment, including maintenance
costs. However, one time investments of BGN 200-300,000 do not solve the problem of maintenance cost.
After completion, problems with maintenance jeopardize the results of many projects. This is especially
true for projects that are to be operated and maintained by municipalities relying exclusively on budget
subsidies.
- 12-



The implementing agency required evidence of availability of funds for covering operating costs
prior to any project assessment and approval. Those interested readily certified that funds were available.
However, the RIF Team doubts that in all cases the necessary funds were and will be secured.
The conclusions regarding institutional relationships, management, and sustainability are the
following:
*   "Political support + operational autonomy" proved to be a good formula. This implies that
investment strategy and investment portfolio should be aligned with national investment priorities
and programs. On the other hand, in terms of management efficiency and operation capacity social
investment institutions should replicate private business management structure and corporate
culture.
*   The management structure should be simple giving the core staff maximum decision making power
while leaving technical and routine functions to outsiders.
*   Coordination with central and local authorities is essential. It is worthwhile to set up regular
training programs for those government officials who are involved in RIF/SIF operations.
*   Availability of maintenance and operation budget should be evidenced prior to approval and
transferring funds.
8.2.3. Investment portfolio and accountability
Infrastructure
In the WB-supported part of the RIF Project, practically all the funds available were directed to
public works (out of DM 6,671,002 under Category 1 just DM 280,000 had been designated for projects
different from infrastructure, or the so-called innovative projects). Infrastructure works implied a particular
methodology of control and accountability. The Implementing Agency set three levels of monitoring and
control keeping for the RIF specialists the ultimate sanction. The control system was based on valid
standards and regulations for carrying out construction works in the country.
Infrastructure investments reduce unemployment only temporarily. The RIF Team finds that
community infrastructure projects had a much greater impact in stimulating economic growth and fostering
social cohesion.
Innovative micro-projects
The innovative micro-projects (IMPs) are a way of diversifying the RIF investment portfolio. The
IMP type micro-project was introduced as a tool for enhancing RIF's capacity to promote long-term
employment generation through providing non-financial services to NGOs and businesses (through NGOs.)
The major share of IMP investment went for training and acquisition of material assets.
The main reservations of the implementing agency regarding IMPs concerns RIF formal
procedures, including, the procurement procedure. The procedures suit perfectly well the construction
works process, but they are rather clumsy when applied to innovative projects. Consequently, the
monitoring and controlling instruments the implementing agency applied to public works proved inefficient
with innovative projects.
On the other hand, the RIF Team recognized that many good ideas could be developed into sound
projects.
Credit Scheme
The RIF PMU was aware that the only instrument to strengthen the RIF capacity to support
long-term (L/T) employment generation in a sustainable way was credit. The RIF succeeded in developing
- 13 -



a loan guarantee scheme that was tested with Government funds outside the LIL.
The implementing agency believes the scheme is going to be evaluated as successful for several
reasons:
*   The public considers it extremely relevant since it has been targeting a specific niche of credit
market - that of small credits designated to small and micro entrepreneurs without long credit
record with the commercial banks and without collateral, and therefore, with dubious
creditworthiness.
* The scheme is universal and applicable all over the country where reliable local partners are
available.
* The scheme relies on commercial banks, i.e. credit institutions, as intermediaries. The circle of
intermediaries mnight need to be broadened to include non-profit organizations since for commercial
banks microcredits are often too small. Guarantees can only address the higher credit risk
commercial banks face with microcredit; they cannot address the high cost-low profitability of
small transactions.  Non-profit intermediaries usually go the extra mile needed to reach
micro-entrepreneurs because it is their mandate. However, involving non-profit intermediaries will
require some legislative changes and further development of the non-profit sector in Bulgaria. In
the meantime, a mixed strategy with banks and NGO's seems appropriate.
*   Unlike infrastructure works where control is based on procedures, observing technical and formal
standards, the investment/credit projects are monitored and control based on financial instruments.
Therefore, the system of controlling and monitoring credit projects implies a rather different
organizational structure and project implementation cycle.
The conclusions regarding Investment portfolio and accountability are:
*   Infrastructure works, innovative projects and credit/investment projects should be major items of
the RIF/SIF portfolio. This portfolio structure would allow for addressing three major social policy
goals: (a) S/T employment generation; (b) sustainable employment generation (c) improving
workforce qualification.
*   The portfolio structure would allow for developing a complex set of controlling instruments that
would give grounds for sound credibility before prospective donors.
*   This type of portfolio structure allows a unified management structure.
*   Innovative projects need better targeting to create more employment and improve skills. This way
SIF can assist MOLSP in carrying out active labor market policies.
*   Involvement of a broader set of credit institutions in the RIF/SIF investment activity would allow
for developing a richer set of credit instruments including community mobilization. It would be a
basis for financial discipline and improved accountability.
8.3. Stakeholder Input
(The following section presents the results of wider discussions and consultations with multiple
stakeholders on the results of the RIF project.)
8.3.1. Background
The World Bank, together with the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy and with the logistical
support of the Foundation for Local Government Reform, organized two seminars to obtain feedback from
stakeholders and beneficiaries on the achievements of the objectives and planned outputs of the RIF project.
The information collected through the seminars will be used in fine-tuning the start-up activities under the
larger SIF.
- 14 -



The first seminar on the topic "The Regional Initiatives Fund - The Local Perspective" was held
on 29 May 2001 and included local stakeholders and beneficiaries, local government officials, NGOs, etc.
The second seminar was entitled "The Regional Initiatives Fund - Results and Lessons Learnt" held on 4
June 2001, attended by national level stakeholders and policy-makers, representatives of NGOs, trade
unions, and donor organizations.
8.3.2. The Regional Initiatives Fund - The Local Perspective Seminar
The topics for the discussions were as follows: (1) The Role of Communities in the Process of
Identification of Local Priorities and Selection of Viable Projects; (2) Employment and Economic
Development - Aims of the Project and Ways of Achievement; Impact on Minorities and Socially
Vulnerable Groups; and (3) Procedures (implementation of the project).
The main conclusions from the seminar can be summarized as follows:
* The RIF Project has achieved its major goals to create temporary employment, and to foster
community development and local cooperation and has contributed to the improvement of the social
and economic infrastructure.
* Some of the principal challenges were insufficient information about the project selection to the citizens
and lack of opportunities for integration of the socially vulnerable groups.
*   The main recommendations for the future SIF included: to target small municipalities and small local
businesses, to encourage partnership among communities, NGOs, municipalities and businesses, and
more interaction with the communities in the process of project identification and implementation.
8.3.3. The Regional Initiatives Fund - Results and Lessons Learned Stakeholder Seminar
A) The Development Partners
This section summarizes the observations and recommendations of the representatives of the World Bank,
UNDP and USAID about RIF's outcomes and recommendations for the future SIF.
Success in several dimensions
* improvement of the living conditions - new water supplies, agricultural markets, renovated schools,
improved doctor's clinics;
* establishing partnerships - bringing communities together, putting together their ideas and priorities;
* strengthening of the management capacity of local governments;
* strengthening of the management capacity within the MOLSP, the PMU has been established;
* establishing a partnership in the managing body - input from trade unions, academics, other
professionals and government, Government departments and executive agencies. A very interesting and
unique feature of RIF is the tripartite management - the workers, the employers and the Govemnment,
which has made it an instrument of consensus building and negotiation.
*   strengthening the partnership among the intemational donors - external support from UNDP, the World
Bank, and the USAID;
* postage of the SIF legislation;
* healthy competition.
Recommendations for the future
* Extend RIF in size and functions towards SIF, to a scale where it can influence GDP growth SIF
should not be just a continuation of the RIF, but a scaling up of the operation and a major contributor
to GNP growth and unemployment abatement. SIF should also help realize the growth potential of
micro-entrepreneurs and SMEs.
- 15 -



*   Introduction of a business development component. In addition to infrastructure projects, SIF should
influence micro and small business environment, including access to micro-credit. SIF should
contribute to temporary and long-term job creation and to formation of new skills.
*   Increasing community involvement. There is a need to broaden the involvement of civil society in the
communities in which the SIF participates and improve govemance at the local level. The
USAID-funded PLEDGE Program could serve as an example of involving communities in the project
identification and implementation process.
*   Decentralized management. It is a management challenge for the RIF (and SIF) to decide whether or
not to introduce decentralized decision-making structures at the regional level for project screening and
selection.
*   Beneficiary assessments. Improvements are needed in the post-project social impact assessment.
*   Improved coordination.  Another recommendation is to improve the coordination among various
ongoing programs at the local level, such as PLEDGE, LGI, SME Programs, etc. SIF should play a
facilitating role for other similar programs.
B) The Discussion
The purpose of the discussion was to assess the achievements of RIF and collect information and
recommendations for the future SIF.
Social Investment Fund - Conclusions and Recommendations
Before the commencement of the discussion, the summary of the main conclusions from the earlier local
stakeholders seminar were presented.
The following five key points were put forward for discussion: (1) employment creation; (2) economic
development; (3) improved social services; (4) institutional development; and (5) stimulation of community
action.
T he discussion generated the following main points:
*   Change of emphasis for the future SIF. It was stated that RIF has been viewed as an acronym not of
"Regional Initiatives Fund", but of "Fund for Infrastructure Development". It was mentioned that RIF
has helped the municipal and national budgets directly with funding for infrastructure development, and
indirectly has supported small business development, but only 26 percent out of RIF funding has been
used for labor costs. It was recommended that there should be a change of emphasis and SIF should
focus on decreasing unemployment and provide direct support to micro and small business
development, while indirectly assisting municipal budgets for infrastructure development. SIF should
become a fund for investing in human resources and contribute to the increase of GDP, as well as
allocate a greater part for funding for services and new businesses that will guarantee long-term
employment. SIF should acquire a credit or loan guarantee character, not continue to be a grant
scheme. A credit scheme would guarantee recapitalization and increase the responsibilities of the credit
recipients. It was also recommended that given the upcoming elections, it would be useful to hold
another similar seminar in July to present the results from the RIF and the recommendations for the SIF
to the new govemment officials and decision-makers.
*   Labor issues. Some experience was shared from a specific project involving a gender element - a
retraining center for 97 women seamstresses from minority groups (Roma, Turkish and Bulgarian
unemployed single mothers). The positive result was that they had found jobs, but they were working
without contracts. So, a suggestion was made that labor protection measures should be discussed at a
tripartite meeting and control exercised after hiring people regarding their contracts, salaries and
conditions of labor. It was also advised that special reporting systems for tracking the effect of
- 16-



retraining upon the unemployed be used in order to avoid stimulating the gray economy (i.e. when they
work without contracts following the training). It was also recommended that SIF should invest in
people, e.g. in training courses, etc. especially in small isolated communities to improve labor market
access of young workers. A mention was also made about the specialists laid off from military plants
who should be retrained in similar programs.
*   Concentration of investments. It was advised that SIF should find its place among other financing
institutions and instruments (e.g. Phare, the Structural Funds, etc) in order to achieve the effect of
concentration of investment at the regional level. Single projects do not have the same desired effect as
the implementation of more programs for stimulating employment and infrastructure development.
*   SIF in support of businesses. Another recommendation was also made that SIF should not be with
strict financial orientation and directly fund projects, but should support credit institutions and other
intermnediaries. Certain opinions were in favor of more support for the start up of new businesses
through micro-credit and guarantee schemes.
*   Evaluation of Projects' Effect. An important question that should be considered for the SIF is the
assessment of the results following the implementation of the projects, as well as projects'
sustainability.
*   Capacity Building. Another important point that was raised was the need of building capacity of local
governments in Strategic Planning, Financial Management, and Procurement for providing the
sustainability of the projects, accountability, efficiency and greater community involvement.
*   Community Involvement. More direct community involvement is needed. On one hand, it appears
that citizens are mainly interested in getting informnation about the problem, but they do not get
involved in finding solution to these problems and the specific projects implemented at local level. On
the other hand, the local administration informs the citizens only about the launch of projects and does
not provide information to the beneficiaries during the implementation and monitoring phases. So, it
was recommended that most projects aimed at retraining or improving the social and economic
infrastructure be a part of the Long-Term Regional and Municipal Development Strategies. Thus,
those projects will be sustainable and provide for community involvement as most municipalities
prepare those strategies with broad citizen participation.
*   SIF and the Structural Funds. It was mentioned that a great deal of the capacity and techniques
developed through SIF could further help in the process of preparation for disbursing the Structural
Funds of the EU.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Partner comments were provided at special ICR stakeholder seminars (see Section 8.3.)
Representatives of the borrower and the implementing agency participated in the ICR seminars, where they
shared their positive views and defined the project as very successful in terms of meeting its objectives.
The Borrower's report of November 2000 (required under the Loan Agreement), prepared by a team of the
RIF, provides detailed information and assessment of the project activities.
On the technical level, this ICR was prepared with the help of RIF and the Ministry of Labor and
Social Policy, who provided various data and reports and have worked with Bank staff and consultants to
- 17-



evaluate the project.
The draft of this ICR was sent to the Borrower for comments on August 2, 2001. A letter from the
Borrower to the Bank confirms the participation of the Govemment in the process of drafting the ICR, as
well as the ICR's general conclusions and recommendations (see Annex 11.)
(h) Cofinanciers:
Representatives of the United Nations Development Program and the US Agency for International
Development have expressed satisfaction with the achievements of the project and with donor coordination.
T'heir comments were received at the stakeholder seminars, as well as in separate comments to the draft
ICR.
(p) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Local governments, NGOs and community representatives participated in the ICR stakeholder
workshops and shared an overall satisfaction with the project, defining it as successful.
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                                  IPSR},7
a) 70% of microproject resources devoted to 70%                              87%
municipalities with unemployment rate higher
than average.
b) 280,000 person days of employment  280,000                                99,476
generated.
c) Average wage in microprojects as % of                                     99% (MIS)
national average wage.                                                       82% (MEC)
d) 45% average labor content for      45%                                    26%
microprojects.
e) 10 microprojects specifically create  10                                  8
employment opportunities for women.
f) 10 microprojects specifically create                                      27
employment opportunities for disadvantaged
ethnic groups.
g) % of microproject wage bill going to                                      14%
unskilled laborers.
h) 250 initial microproject proposals                                        1,700
submitted.
i) PMU makes recommendations to the                                          11t3011999
Steering Committee on SIF design and
regulations by Sept. 30,1999.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix          |  X4
Total persons employed                                                       1154
Long-term unemployed engaged by project  20%                                 49.2%
Low-skilled unemployed engaged by project                                    380
Number of beneficiaries                                                      168,408
Beneficiaries' level of satisfaction  75%                                    90.5%
Cost per created job (DEM)                                                   5,808
Community contribution (%)            10%                                    15%
End of project
- 19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent
Microprojects                                         4.70            4.70            100
Labor Market Analysis                                 0.40            0.25             62
Project Management                                    1.20            1.47            122
Total Baseline Cost                                   6.30            6.42
Total Project Costs              6.30            6.42
Total Financing Required               6.30            6.42
Proect Costs by Procurement Arran ements A  raisal Estimate (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.80          3.20         0.00         4.00
(0.00)        (0.80)       (2.50)        (0.00)       (3.30)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00          0.30         0.00         0.30
.: . ~~~~~~~(0 .00)                 (0 .00)      (0 .3 0)      (0 .00)      (0 .3 0)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.80         0.10         0.90
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.60)        (0.00)       (0.60)
4. ALMPs and Labor Force      0.00          0.00          0.40         0.00          0.40
Surveys
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)       (0.40)
5. Audits                     0.00          0.00          0.10         0.00         0.10
(0.00)       (0.00)        (O. I 0)      (0.00)       (0. 1 0)
6. Recurrent Costs            0.00          0.00          0.50         0.10         0.60
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.30)        (0.00)       (0.30)
Total                      0.00          0.80          5.30          0.20         6.30
(0.00)        (0.80)       (4.20)        (0.00)       (5.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methiod
. ; Y          ICB                                         N1 -.   Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.80           3.10           0.80           4.70
(0.00)         (0.60)         (2.50)         (0.00)         (3.10)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.30           0.10           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.35           0.00           0.35
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.35)         (0.00)         (0.35)
4. ALMPs and Labor               0.00           0.00           0.25            0.00          0.25
Force Surveys                   (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.25)         (0.00)        (0.25)
5. Audits                        0.00           0.00           0.02           0.005         0.025
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.015)        (0.00)        (0.015)
6. Recurrent Costs               0.00           0.00           0.58           0.12           0.70
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.46)         (0.00)         (0.46)
Total                         0.00           0.80           4.60           1.025          6.425
(0.00)         (0.60)         (3.775)        (0.00)        (4.375)*
'KFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
I1lncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and ineremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
* The difference between the total loan amount of USD 5mln and the actual spent UDS 4.375 is because of the exchange
rate during the years of implementation
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
7;i7 4.   .Govt.    - CoF.-. T          -  (iikL  -    CoFl.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Micro Projects            3.80       0.30      0.60       3.10       0.35      0.45     81.6   116.7  75.0
Labor Market Analysis     0.40                            0.25                          62.5
Project Management        0.70       0.50                 1.05       0.42               150.0   84.0
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
Identification               2   Task Manager
mission February                  Operations Officer
15-25, 1998
Pre-appraisal                5   Task Manager
mission April                     Operations Officer
16-29, 1998                      Social Scientist
Labor Economist
MIS Specialist
Social Fund Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal                    5   Task Manager
mission May                       Operations Officer
1998                             Social Scientist
Labor Economist
MIS Specialist
Social Fund Specialist
Negotiations                 5   Task team Leader
September 17 -20,                 Economist
1998                             Legal Counsel
Disbursement Officer
Operations Officer
Supervision
November 1-9,                 7   Task Manager                        S             S
1999 (mid-term                   Social Scientist
review)                           Operations Officers (2)
Labor Economist
Procurement Consultant
Procurement Analyst
March 27-31, 2000            2   Task Manager                         S             S
Labor Economist
July 17-21, 2000             2   Task Manager                         S             S
Labor Economist
December 22, 2000                 Task Manager                        S            HS
Procurement Analyst
May 14,2001                       Task Manager                        S            HS
Procurement Analyst
ICR
May 28-June 8,               2    Task Manager                       HS            HS
2001                              Consultant
- 23 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  I                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  54                           77
Appraisal/Negotiation                       41                           58
Supervision                                 87                          128
ICR                                         30                           15
Total                                      212                          278
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
E Physical                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
0 Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Institutional Development              * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                           O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
a Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Private sector development             O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
3 Public sector management               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
Fl Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
A Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
A Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS Os   O u   Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
Z Preparation                                        *OHS OS          U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance               O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agencyperformance                    OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide memoires
2. Ex-ante and ex-post beneficiary assessments
3. Borrower' report on RIF
4. RIF Technical Review Findings report by independent consultants
5. UNDP mid-term evaluation
6. ICR mission consultant report
7. Stakeholder workshops' reports
- 27 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
The ex-post beneficiary assessment of the project is attached to this ICR, together with an ex-ante
beneficiary assessment and a poverty assessment. The following is a summary of the ex-post beneficiary
assessment conducted towards the end of the year 2000. The ex-ante assessment and the poverty
assessment are also attached to the ICR.
Ex-post Beneficiary Assessment
rhe methodology of the ex-post beneficiary assessment involved a quantitative survey and a
iualitative survey including in depth interviews with:
- Mayors, deputy mayors, Municipal Council members
- Staff of the Regional Initiative Fund
- Journalists from various media
- Managers of the contractor companies.
- Management representatives of the inspection companies
The types of projects included in the assessment were:
*      ,Educational institutions
*     Cultural centers
*     Healthcare institutions (incl. homes for handicapped, mentally ill and elderly people)
*     Roads, streets, retaining walls
*     Water supply and sewerage
*      )Others (sanitary landfields, markets, irrigation systems)
The practical effects that were assessed included:
1. Creating jobs and reducing poverty
2. Community development and infrastructure improvement
3. Comnmunity economic development
4. Conflict resolution
5. Improving the quality of social services
6. Other outcomes
These effects of the project were assessed as follows:
Creating jobs and reducing poverty
The creation of temporary jobs was evaluated as the most important result of project
implementation. In some, communities the local residents employed numbered up to 30.
Permanent jobs created ranged between 0 and 10-15. However, the number of permanent jobs
created was less than initially expected by local residents
Community development and improvement of infrastructure
Expectations regarding community development matched results. The evaluations of local
government representatives under this criterion were very high and fully matched expectations.
- 28 -



Community economic development
Impact on economic development of the communities was evaluated as moderate. A substantial
part of the respondents (41.4%) think that the implementation of the micro-projects had no
impact on community economic development.
Conflict resolution
Most respondents do not think that project implementation has generated conflicts.
Improving the quality of social services
Impact on the quality of social services was estimated as very positive. Health and culture were
the areas in which impact was most visible.
Expectations about other project effects
Retaining and attracting young people to the communities
One-third of respondents think that the projects helped reduce the migration of young people.
Improving hygiene and environment
Expectations that project implementation would have a positive effect in improving hygiene and
environment have been met.
Community usefulness of projects and project relevance to community problems
The main social and economic problems identified by the communities surveyed were high
unemployment rate and low living standard. Adequate project targeting was confi rmedfor the
majority of communities
Estimated number of beneficiaries
Estimated number of beneficiaries is provided in the table below.
In your residence place
Sept. 1999    June-July
2000
The whole population                               35,9         22,5
The greater part of the population                 36,1         45,9
A small part of the population                     20,7         27,8
Nobody                                              1,2          0,6
Don't know - No answer                             6,1           3,2
- 29 -



Evaluation of projects' usefulness by the local residents
55
50
45
40
35-                         
30               _                              June-July, 2000
25 -                                            September, 1999
20                                           _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _
15
10
5
0
NPSvledX
Project rankings by degree of usefulness
1. Water supply
2. Road infrastructure
3. Education
4. Healthcare
Main conclusions
1. Projects were evaluated as adequate and relevant to the specific local conditions
2. In the majority of communities project targeting matched community needs
3. In all communities the idea for a specific project was generated through the expressed opinions
of local residents
4. Project type substantially influenced opinions on project results
5. The principal positive effects of projects were temporary jobs and improved community
facilities. This matched people's initial expectations.
6. On the whole, the social effect of the projects were significant and was appreciated by both
local govermment representatives and local residents
7. Local residents generally were well aware of the projects. Awareness increased in most
communities during the period of implementation
8. The overall evaluation of the projects by local government representatives was very high
9. Respondents' expectations about project usefulness before their implementation and
- 30 -



evaluations made after their completion did not differ substantially
10. Water supply and sewerage, streets and retaining walls, school and kindergarten renovation
projects were assessed most highly as having the greatest real impact.
- 31 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The results of the Stakeholder Workshops are presented in Section 8 (Lessons Learned), subsection 8.3.
Stakeholder Input.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 10. Sample Social Assessment of a RIF Micro-project
Social Assessment MP 3730 Madan Municipal Hospital Reconstruction
1/12
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
MP   3730  MADAN   MUNICIPAL   HOSPITAL
RECONSTRUCTION
LOCATED: MADAN
MUNICIPALITY: MADAN
MAYOR: VALENTIN GADGEV
DEPUTY MAYOR: HADJIEVA
HEAD OF LABOR OFFICE - ENTCHO ZOTEV
HEAD OF EMPLOYMENT AND RESTRUCTURING ASSOCIATION - MITKO PETAGOV
HEAD OF HOSPITAL - STEFAN HADJIEV
Purpose of the Social Assessment
The main purpose of the social assessment is to use it as a criterion for the selection of
microprojects for funding on the basis of the following indicators:
*     Whether the microproject is considered as a priority among the location's problems by the
local community;
*     Whether the microproject is considered significant and important for the local community
by the local community itself,
*     Whether the local community has participated in the identification of the microprojects.
Another aim of the Social Assessment is to inform the local community about the existence of a
microproject proposal. This is necessitated by the findings during the RIF project that in most
cases the local community had no idea about the existence of intentions, proposals or
microprojects. When talks, discussions or interviews are held with the local community, the local
population becomes aware of the existence of these microproject proposals. Local authorities,
represented by the mayors, usually prefer to inform the local community not at the conception
phase, but much later, when the microproject has been approved for financing. At this time
though it is already too late to take into consideration the opinion of the local community for the
choice and approval of the proposed microproject. The reason to conduct social assessment is to
find evidence whether the selection of the specific microproject has been prompted by the opinion
of the local population as to what they think is an important problem whose solution is first
priority for the location.
Methodology
The assessment was made on the basis of the data collected through individual and group
interviews with representatives of the following target groups:
*  Local authorities - former mayor, secretary of the municipality;
*   Hospital management - Head of the hospital;
- 33 -



* Non-governmental organizations - Head of the Employment and Restructuring Association;
Head of the Labor Office;
*   Local population.
The main topics of the interviews were as follows:
*  Main problem of the locality;
  How does this microproject rank among other priorities of the town;
*   Microproject selection;
* Participation of the community in the selection of the microproject;
i   Importance of the Hospital for the community;
i   Likelihood for conflicts to occur between different individuals or groups vis---vis the
microproject.
Gfeneral Information
Madan is the municipal center with 8,182 inhabitants as of August 1999. There are 44 locations
in the municipality with a total of 15,587 inhabitants.
UJntil 31 October 1999 the unemployed registered with the Labor Office amounted to 2,264, out
of them 645 are long-term unemployed. The municipal level of unemployment is 21.5% (average
for the country - 12%). Compared to the regional level of unemployment (the region of Smolian)
this figure is by 10% higher. The level of unemployment is high and there is a tendency for
upsurge (especially in the period January - September 1999).
In connection with the mass layoffs in the mining enterprise GORUBSO-MIADAN by the end of
October 1999 some 3,715 people were registered with the Labor Office (from the municipalities
)f Madan and Banite), which marks a 72.7% rise year-on-year.
By the end of October 1999 the long-term unemployed (for over 6 months) in the municipality of
M4adan numbered 645 **) The monthly analysis of the Madan Labor Office gives more data on the level of
inemployment, the age, gender, educational characteristics etc.).
According to Entcho Zotev, Head of the Madan Labor Office, chances are that in a year there will
be a dramatic increase in the level of unemployment in the municipality, when the deadline for the
obtaining the severance compensations by the miners (90% of men) expires. Currently when
work contracts are being terminated, workers are given BGN 2,000 in compensation, covered by
the social security. But in order to obtain this compensation the laid-off worker must find
employment elsewhere for a year.
Mr. Zotev assumes that the level of hidden unemployment in the municipality is maximum of
40%.
The age structure is the usual one - 61% of the population are of working age, 170/c are
pensioners, 22% are aged under 18.
- 34 -



For the town only, the age structure is as follows: 66% of the population are of working age, 24%
are aged under 18, 10% are post-working age.
The high level of unemployment in the town and in the municipality as a whole with this
age structure indicates that unemployment is the most serious problem of the location.
Mining is the main income generating activity for the population in the town and in the whole
municipality. Agriculture - tobacco and potato growing, cattle breeding - are developed to a
lesser extent, only for subsistence.
The majority of the population in the town and in the whole municipality is Muslim (90%),
Christians are 10%. In the town there are a few Muslim Roma families.
Social Infrastructure
Table 1 shows the components of the Madan social infrastructure.
Table ]
Components of the Social Infrastructure
School                          3 primary; 6 basic and 3 comprehensive
Day care center                 7
Community Center               1, in the municipality - 4 more
Policlinics                    1
Hospital                        Madan Municipal Hospital
There are recreational places in the municipality - 2 outdoor swimming pools, children's
playgrounds, 4 libraries, a Museum of Mining, a Crystal Hall, an arts gallery.
The Municipal Hospital is the main health facility in the municipality as a whole offering a wide
range of health services. Apart from it, the nearest hospital is in Smolian - 30 km away from
Madan.
In the bigger locations of the municipality there are other 7 health points with a medic and a
dentist. In Madan there are 4 private dentists and 2 private obstetricians.
The Employment and Restructuring Association is the main non-governmental organization
working in Madan. This is a Bulgarian-German association, which started activities in 1996 as a
pilot project. Nowadays there are similar associations in other towns in Bulgaria. The Association
works in close cooperation with the labor office in Madan. Its main activity is to provide
employment, altemative to that of the labor office, in other parts of the country or abroad.
Another active non-governmental organization is Partners for Local Development, which is an
association of all local non-governmental organizations (it was established 2 years ago).
- 35 -



Mass Media
The local mass media are the following:
*     Two regional newspapers published in Kardjali - Otzvuk and Rodopski vesti.
*     Local radio station
v     Local cable TV in Madan
Economic Infrastructure
The Madan Municipality has a well-developed economic infrastructure, there are many
operational companies in its territory. The main employer for most of the population is the mining
enterprise GORUBSO-MADAN - for extraction and processing of lead and zinc ore. The
company employed over 3000 people. During the past year the mining was restructured thus
triggering closures of many mines and massive lay-offs in the country. These changes did not
spare Madan. Currently the rnines were closed, only 200 people administrative staff remain in
employment. This caused serious protests and labor conflicts since the end of last year, which
continue to this day.
C2urrently the company is privatized - 60% of the shares were purchased by Rodopa Investment,
:20% - by a Bulgarian-Russian Company. The other 20% of the shares remain state-owned. The
,municipal authorities rely on the new owner to revive the company to a certain extent, although it
realizes that the previous level of employment (over 3000 people) would not be recovered.
The mining enterprise generated additional employment in the town and in the municipality in
canteens and recreational centers. Today none of those are operational and consequently do not
generate employment.
There are other companies in the municipality that were closed - the Srednogorets flotation
factory; the Ditcho Petrov factory for repair of mining machines and for manufacturing of spare
parts. The restructuring of the mining industry closed these companies. The Mining vocational
school was also closed down.
The following companies are operational in the town: Proma glue and plastics company, now
privatized by an employee-management buy-out, two clothing factories Rodopi, now owned by an
Austrian and Heveia-Kim; the consortium Zhiva voda; part of the Upper Arda cascade.
The municipal authorities and the local population rely on the Upper Arda cascade for the
economic development of the town and the municipality and for the employment generation.
Investment Projects
Currently four projects funded by the National Environmental Fund are being implemented in the
municipality:
* Construction of a sewage main;
- 36 -



* Construction of a sewage network in the Bunova poliana and Varbina villages (the second
biggest locations after Madan in the municipality);
* Construction of a landfill in Madan;
* Upper Arda Cascade.
The last project generates many hopes for creating jobs and reducing the social tensions caused by
the mass lay-offs in GORUBSO-MADAN. It is expected that this project will create around 500
jobs in the municipality (the duration of the project is 2 years); some 4000 people from the
Madan, Ardino, Zlatograd, Rudozem, Kardjali will be employed for the construction of the
cascade. Actually the project already has generated some employment for part of the population,
because the geological studies for the cascade were commissioned to a construction company
from Madan.
The World Bank finances the procurement of equipment for two health points in the second
biggest locations after Madan in the municipality - in the Bunova poliana and Varbina villages.
Under a governmental agreement between Bulgaria and Greece the construction of a road and a
check point near the village of Elhovetz has begun; everybody expects <<upturn, development of
tourism and trade).
In the center of Madan the construction of a big mosque will be finished soon. Various sources
for the funding of the site were quoted - community donations (according to the municipal
authorities); a NGO (according to the management of the hospital); an Arab state (according to
the locals).
Main Problems
There are various problems in the town and the municipality. The municipal authorities quote the
following:
*  The social tensions caused by the mass lay-offs in GORUBSO-MADAN and the need to find
alternative employment (reliable, including within projects, including the reconstruction of the
hospital);
*  Retain the town and the municipal population in the territory of the municipality; once the
main income-generating activity has disappeared.
The local authorities ranked the following specific problems as the most crucial:
* Reconstruction of the hospital;
* Extension of the gym to one of the schools;
* Reconstruction of the water supply and sewage systems;
* Installation of electric kiosk switchgear.
The local population ranked the most pressing problems as follows:
* Finding a job (locals kept mentioning the Upper Arda Cascade project);
* Reconstruction of the hospital;
* Completion of the sewage network and construction of sewage system in more locations;
- 37 -



* Water supply.
Regarding the microprojects proposed for funding by the RIF, there is a concert of opinion
between the local authorities and the local population that this is an important and
necessary project for the municipal and town population. The representatives of both
groups said that the solution of this problem is a priority for them.
Microproject Description
T'he purpose of the microproject is to reconstruct the children's and the obstetrics wards, to
transfer the operating theater from one wing into the other. After the overhaul, the hospital will
be located in one wing only and the policlinics in the other (the new law stipulates that hospitals
and policlinics are separate health facilities), together with the pharmacy and the ER. All
installations will be replaced which has not been done since 1955; the last overhaul took place in
1985.
Social Assessment
Hlealth facilities are an obligatory and main component of the social infrastructure providing social
services to the population. The importance of the Madan Municipal Hospital is determined by the
f:llowing facts:
1)    This is a big municipality which encompasses 44 locations and is the only hospital in the
municipality;
2)    There were wards for occupational diseases and toraxic diseases that are already closed
that serviced the employees of the GORUBSO-MADAN i.e. these wards were also part of the
Mining company and were necessary for the development of the sector.
According to the locals "the hospital is very important for the town. It is nice to have a nice
hospital to go to when you have to". "We feel more secure with this hospital".
General data about the hospital
The hospital building has two separate wings. The main wing houses the policlinics and seven
stationary wards: internal, surgical, obstetrics, children's, otologistic, ophthalmologistic and
neurologistic.
The Madan Hospital was constructed in 1952; it is famous for its good ophthalmologists. The
aphtalmologistic cabinet is very well equipped, people not only from the municipality, but also
firom the entire region of Plovdiv come for examination and treatment. The municipality extends
r, gular payments for procurement and maintenance of the equipment.
- 38 -



Microproject Selection
MP 3730 Madan Municipal Hospital Reconstruction was one of the ten proposals submitted by
the municipality of Madan. These ten proposals were identified in the following way: initially the
municipality organized a meeting and invited thereto non-governmental organizations represented
in the Partners for Local Development. The meeting was attended by the local authorities, people
involved in health (including Mr. Hadjiev, the head of the hospital), education, construction.
Ideas for projects to be resented to the RIF were generated. The proposals were discussed in the
Municipal Council.
The discussion of the microproject with the local elite and at an open session of the Municipal
Council makes the initiative transparent. Although the community itself did not participate
directly in the identification of the microproject, it was informed about the idea during the
Municipal Council session and immediately afterwards through the media.
The main criteria for the identification of the microprojects were the relevance of the
microprojects as determined by the local authorities and the lack of funding for them in the
municipal budget.
The microproject was identified after discussions with representatives of various groups. It
was submitted to a session of the Municipal Council.
Awareness of the localpopulation about the microproject
The community was informed at an early stage, just after the idea was generated.  All
town-dwellers that were polled said that they were aware of existence of the microproject. Mass
media played an important role for the awareness of the population. The evening before our visit
to Madan there was a dispute on the cable TV regarding the state of the hospital and the health
reform. One week before the show was broadcast and for the duration of the show there was a
direct telephone line for the public to ask questions. The interest was very high. It is impressive
that a larger part of the town-dwellers that were polled said that they had watched the dispute the
previous evening.
In the words of Mrs. Hadjieva, Deputy Mayor "the local radio station keeps the locals updated on
the development of the project".
The Hospital management is also involved in the identification of the project and of the making of
the decision to submit it to the RIF. Mr. Hadjiev, the head of the hospital was present at the
meeting where the idea was generated.
The town-dwellers are very well informed about the microproject. The local authorities
initiated an information campaign.
How does this microproject rank among other priorities of the town?
The local authorities classified this project as the most important of all applications for funding
submitted to the RIF. As a whole for both the town and the municipality this is an important
- 39 -



problem, although it dwindles compared to the massive lay-off of workers following the closure
of the GORUBSO-MADAN.
The same can be said about the ranking made by the local people - for them the priority now is to
find a job. The reconstruction of the hospital is ranked first among the civil works projects.
In summary, the Madan inhabitants unanimously declare the reconstruction of the hospital as a
problem that has to solved, although currently it is eclipsed by the problem of finding a job.
The social assessment of this microproject found out that both the local community and the
local authority consider this microproject a priority for the municipality. This is the most
pressing civil works problem that needs to be solved.
Likelihood for conflicts to occur between different individuals or groups vis--vis the
microproject
The selection of this microproject as well as it realization will not create conflict situation in
the location, because "the hospital serves many people in the municipality, nobody was refused to
be treated, on the contrary, people believe that this overhaul is urgent and has to be
implemented".
"It is unthinkable that conflicts might arise between the hospital personnel and doctors from the
different wards during the overhaul. They will be looking forward to working in a nice building".
"No conflicts are expected to arise during the implementation of the microproject. On the
contrary so far the community has accused the authorities that nothing was being done. Now the
people support the idea".
Microproject Funding
The second criterion for the selection of this microproject (apart from its urgency) is that the
Municipality lacks funds for the works. Mrs. Hadjieva, Deputy Mayor said that the Municipality
could not afford to pay the necessary BGL 480 million. The idea to raise the funds from the
community is not applicable because the amount is considerable. The original idea was to seek
external financing for the microproject.
Regarding the rate of the requested contribution Mrs. Hadjieva, Deputy Mayor said that no
matter how high it would be the Municipality would try to mobilize the funds because the
reconstruction of the hospital is important. This shows that the microproject is indeed first
priority for the local authorities.
- 40 -



Importance of the Hospitalfor the community
The attitude of the public towards the implementation of the microproject is very positive.
According to the locals "the hospital is in a very poor state, you haven't seen anything worse".
According to the local authorities "the hospital needs urgent overhaul, so far only partial repairs
were made". The Hospital management requested the overhaul repeatedly. Initially the idea was
to transfer all units into one wing only in order to cut the expenses.
The main purpose of the microproject is to "provide the people with medical assistance where
they live".
As a whole the local population determines the hospital as very important for the community
because:
*   "This project is mainly social, it would not create many jobs, but it will reassure the people that
there is a place that can provide them with the necessary medical assistance";
*   "It reassures the people, makes them feel comfortable because their social services are assured";
*   "It is used by 90% of the municipal inhabitants";
-   "Because the region is poor with high unemployment level, if the hospital did not exist and
people had to travel to Smolian they would not have been able to afford the expenses";
-   "Improves access to health services".
The importance of the hospital springs from the development of the mining as the main
income-generating activity in this region. Therefore there was a toraxic ward in the hospital to
treat diseases of the respiratory system (most common among the miners) and an occupational
diseases ward.
The realization of the project raises hopes among the community that people will be able to get a
temporary job during the works. "People already started coming to the town hall to inquire
whether they could get a job related to the project".
"Repairing the hospital is important not only because it is an important facility but also because it
will demonstrate to the community that something is being done to solve the town's problems,
especially now when the mining industry has collapsed."
Staff
Hospital employs 161 people - see Table 2.
Table 2
Hospital Organization Structure
Doctors                                                             21
Pharmacists                                                          2
Paramedical (auxiliary medical personnel, such as midwives, medics  77
laboratory technicians, nurses' aides)
Other                                                               61
TOTAL:                  161
-41 -



Outpatient Policlinics employs 71 people (see Table 3):
Table 3
Outpatient Policlinics Organization Structure
Doctors                                                  18
Dentists                                                  6
Dental technicians                                        1
Paramedical  (auxiliary  medical  personnel,  such  as   39
midwives, medics, laboratory technicians, nurses' aides)
Other                                                     7
TOTAL:       71
Beneficiaries
Potentially all inhabitants of the municipality are beneficiaries of the hospital although there are
health points in 6 other locations. Some of the medical services can be provided only in the
hospital. In some cases, for instance the ophthalmologist, some services are provided for people
from other municipalities.
The hospital personnel - 161 people - constitute another group of beneficiaries.
The following table shows statistical data about the number of patients during 1998 and until 1
December 1999, which can give us an idea about the number of beneficiaries.
1998      until December 1 1999|
Hospital
Respiratory diseases                          6,012                   5,723
Severe respiratory infections                 4,673                   3,862
Trauma, poisoning                             1,309                     922
Diseases of the uretic-reproductive system    1,118                    1,121
Diseases of the blood circulation organs      1,018                     998
TOTAL:          14,130                  12,626
Policlinics
Examinations                                 92,600                  72,592
Births in the hospital                           90                      87
Deaths in the hospital                           22                      25
The general trend is towards reducing number of patients, which is due to that fact that after the
closure of the GORUBSO-MADAN the population migrates out of the municipality.
During the last 2 years the number of patients was relatively stable.
- 42 -



Conclusion
From the social point of view the microproject is appraised positively on the basis of the following
facts:
*     The local population considers the solution of hospital reconstruction a priority problem;
*     The hospital is the only medical facility that services 44 locations with a total number of
population 15,587;
*     The local population determines it as relevant and important.
10.01.2000
Proposals
Madan Municipal Hospital Reconstruction
Reconstruction of sewerage system on street in village of Bukovo
Sewerage system reconstruction - neighborhood "1 May", Madan
Construction and equipment of sports playground in Otetz Paisii School
Kiosk switchgear - Varbina village
Water supply system reconstruction - Konski dol neighborhood
Rehabilitation of Spartak St. - Madan
Rehabilitation of Mladost St. - Madan
Road to Borino village
Bukovo collection main
Approved
MP 3730 MADAN MUNICIPAL HOSPITAL RECONSTRUCTION
- 43 -



QUANTIFICATION - IMPORTANCE OF THE PROJECTFOR LOCAL PEOPLE FROM
SOCIAL POINT OF VIEW
Priority of the project for local population
Sz:ale I to 5 where 1 is the lowest, 5 is the highest evaluation
1    Under sixth priority
2     Fourth to sixth priority
3     Third priority
4     Second priority           X
5     Fist priority
Local population awareness about the project
Scale 1 to 5 where I is the lowest, 5 is the highest evaluation
L1= Low_
2    Middle
|3= Good
|_4  Very good
K_5   Excellent                  x
Number of project's beneficiaries
Scale 1 to 5 where 1 is the lowest, 5 is the highest evaluation
I i| Very limited number of people - under 30%    _- 
2     Limited number of people - 30 to 50%
3     Part of the population in the settlement - up to 50%   .
4     All people in the settlement
5    Population of the whole municipality               X
Local population opinion of project significance
Scale 1 to 5 where 1 is the lowest, 5 is the highest evaluation
1    Totally useless           =
2     Rather useless
_3   -Not useful neither useless
4     Rather useful
_    Very useful               X
- 44 -



AGGREGATE SOCIAL INDICATOR (SOCIAL RELEVANCY OF A CERTAIN
PROJECT) = sum of the above four quantified indicators/4
Scale 1 to 5 where 1 is the lowest, 5 is the highest evaluation
I    Not important at all
2     Not important
3     Not very important
4     Important from social point of view
5     Very important from social point of view
2 _   I3               1       14                    5
- 45 -



Additional Annex 11. Government Comments on the ICR
REPUI3LIC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND SOCIAL POLICY
2. Triaditza Str. BG-10i1 Sofia, Til. /Fax: (+3592) 91 408. Fax: 9t6 13 18,
e-4ail m1spOml&p.govemment.bg
OurRe,...              22 10   2001
Yfour Rnl:...............................
To Mr. Oacar Ic Bruyn Kops
Resident Representative
The World Dank R;sidont
Mission in Bulgaria
Subject- ICR - Regional Initintives Fund
Dear Mr. De Bruyn Kaops,
I am writing you an the occasion of the successful completion of the Regional
Initiativcs Fund Project funded by thc Lcarnming and Innovation Loan BUL 4411. The
Ministry of Labour and Soial Pnlicy is satisfied from the open and cAmprehensive
procsa of the ICR drafting. urthermore, the MLSP is also  satisfied fiom the
asse$sments and recommendations laid down in the lCR.
I would like to thank you most wannly for the valuable contibution WB made to the
economic and social policy of the Rulgarian governmnot through this support
I hope that the MLSP and WB will continue and extend their future joint work and
cooperaLIon in order to achieve our conmnon goals.
Sincerely yours,            j            7
Rados lav Bozadi iev
Deputy ministvr,1 f Lab<"dicy
- 46 -



Additional Annex 12. Analysis of the Achievement of Outputs
Infrastructure Microprojects
In the first year of the RIF, more than 1700 microproject applications were made by municipalities
from all over Bulgaria. After the PMU labored intensively to process the requests, the applications were
narrowed to 249. The prioritization criteria included 1) the social and economic development of the
municipalities (by an official index of the Ministry of Regional Development); and 2) unemployment rate in
the locality. Thereafter, proposals were prioritized for final field appraisal according to readiness of design
and bill of quantities (BoQ) and sent on for final consideration by the Steering Committee. Because the
average cost of approved microprojects was US$82,000 equivalent compared to the US$ 45,000 equivalent
estimated at RIF design stage, the RIF was able to finance just 58 microprojects (this number does not
include 7 innovative) from the Govemment's World Bank loan (and matching funds from municipalities).
With new resources from the Government of Bulgaria and the USAID, the PMU estimated that by end
2001, the RIF would process over 2000 applications and finance a total of 255 microprojects (including 16
innovative), at an average cost of US$ 63,000 equivalent.
Creation of temporary jobs and associated increase in earnings and skill maintenance was one of
the key RIF Project outcomes to support the project's development objective of poverty alleviation during
economic transition. The accomplishments and shortcomings of the RIF Project in meeting this objective
are discussed in more detail below taking into account available data on job creation and income support.
Another important aspect of the infrastructure micro-projects is their operational sustainability.
An independent technical evaluation of the RIF microprojects from August 2000 stated that, in general, the
RIF infrastructure micro-projects are likely to be operationally sustainable.
The evaluation states that the quality of future maintenance and the coverage of operational costs
are not fully resolved questions, but microprojects like for example Health Centers (integrated into the
health reform framework), or Water and Sewage systems (that charge fees) are more likely to be properly
maintained. However, the evaluation also notes that resources for appropriate maintenance are not always
readily available as originally planned. Intermediaries have budget constraints and maintenance is not one
of their first priorities. Certain types of projects have better possibilities of having appropriate maintenance
when there are more government subsidies or where adequate fees are paid for the use of the service.
Others, that are more independent like Community Centers have more difficulties raising money to cover
operations and maintenance. To help improve the probabilities of future maintenance some alternatives
could be introduced for the future Social Fund, for example:
(i)    For projects that are not covered by central government subsidies the incorporation of
training modules for operation and maintenance would be recommendable. In other words, to help establish
the correct mechanisms for fund raising, maintenance and administration of the fund. For example projects
like Water and Sewage system administered by the Municipality could have training modules to help the
correct establishment of the group for operation and maintenance and the determination of fees (after
appropriate clarifications of the roles of the companies, the municipality and the State as co-owners.)
Projects like Market Places could also have something similar.
(ii)   For projects with not enough government subsidies for maintenance, like schools for
example, a training module for the community organization to face maintenance could be explored.
(iii)   Municipal Strengthening to improve the administration efficiency could also help the
future maintenance of projects.
- 47 -



In general, the sustainability of many of the services is related to the effectiveness and availability
of resources in the central and local government budgets. The projects that are not linked to municipal or
central subsidies need to explore mechanisms to raise money for operation and maintenance.
Temporary Employment
Four indicators were selected during RIF Project design to measure job creation and income
support performance: (i) number of labor days of employment; (ii) average labor content for microprojects;
(iii) percentage of laborers hired from list of long-term unemployed (more than 6 months); and (iv) average
wage in microprojects as percentage of national average wage. The analysis below is limited to data from
one survey of laborers and contractors conducted in October 1999, covering the first 49 microprojects
("Evaluation of Microprojects Anti-Poverty Impacts," hereafter, "anti-poverty study"). The analysis also
makes reference to findings of the PMU in 2000 during its evaluation of payroll data on the first 58
infrastructure microprojects.
Labor days. A total of 280,000 person days of employment were supposed to be created by the
first US$ 4.7 million for microprojects, but the results were far less than anticipated. According to
preliminary data provided by the PMU in 1999, the funds set aside for microprojects were estimated to
produce labor days equivalent to 71 percent of the original goal or about 200,000 labor days (Mid-Term
Review, p. 16). However, subsequent data provided by the PMU in June 2001, showed that just 99,500
labor days or 36 percent of the original goal, were created from the US$ 4.7 million equivalent. The
significant difference between the 1999 and 2001 data reflects a discrepancy between the PMU's estimates
and actual labor contents for microprojects: the 1999 data was taken from BoQ, or what the contractor
estimated to pay, while the 2001 data reflected actual labor costs according to payroll statements. The
significant discordance between 1999 and 2000 data also can be explained by the PMU's revision of its
fornula for calculating labor content (Technical Review Report, p. 13).
Labor content. While it is important to have reliable tools for estimating and measuring labor days,
a key determinant of labor creation is labor content, and on this indicator the RIF Project fell far short of its
goal. The goal set during RIF Project design was an average of 45 percent labor content for microprojects,
but an average of just 24 percent was achieved (PMU data). The lower labor content is attributable to (i)
high cost of equipment relative to labor for the types of microprojects ordered by municipalities; and (ii)
inappropriateness (because of the potential for market distortions) of imposing more labor-intensive work
methods on contractors (such as manual labor for digging and backfilling trenches) to increase the labor
content of common microprojects. While the labor content outcome was disappointing, it was not
inconsistent with similar types of works in social funds in nearby countries that also struggle to maximize
labor creation through social funds.
Hiring long-term unemployed. Although the RIF microprojects did not yield the number of labor
days and consequent job opportunities as envisaged, they did afford temporary jobs to some of the most
disadvantaged laborers in the labor market. According to the anti-poverty study, 60 percent of employees
on contractors' payrolls were "newly hired" or specially hired to execute microprojects; the other 40
percent had already been working for the contractor company. Of newly-hired workers, many were
long-term unemployed, and over half (52.8 percent) had been out of work for more than a year. The typical
newly-hired laborer was male, aged between 3049, unemployed for more than one year, with low skills and
low prospects for gaining a well-paying job or any job. This laborer was from a minority group, with
elementary education, married and living in a village. Moreover, his household had more members, more
registered unemployed and unregistered at employment offices, and more members without income than
households of other workers on the sites. A larger share of the newly hired workers rented private housing
- 48 -



or did not have permanent housing compared to permanent workers. Bulgaria's minority ethnic and
religious groups were well represented among laborers: 33 percent Turkish, 10 percent Roma, and 11
percent Bulgarian Muslims (anti-poverty study, p. 9-13).
Wage levels. Even though newly hired workers were low skilled and performed simple tasks, they
made good wages relative to the minimum and average wages for Bulgaria. According to worker
respondents, the average monthly wage equaled BGN 185,000 (before the 1000:1 denomination of the
Bulgarian lev that took place in July 1999) or 277 percent of the minimum monthly salary for the country
in July 1999, and 93 percent of the country's average monthly salary. Company respondents (employers)
reported they paid their workers a bit higher, an average monthly wage of BGN 203,698 or 300 percent of
the minimum monthly salary and 101 percent of the average monthly salary. (The variance between
laborers and contractors' reported wages reflects the fact that laborers were unaware of social insurance
contributions paid by contractors.) More importantly, the survey data showed that the average monthly
wage paid to newly hired workers, according to worker respondents, was BGN 171,424 or 86 percent of
the national average; according to contractor respondents, newly hired workers earned BGN 189,398 or 95
percent of the national average (anti-poverty study, p. 23-24). The World Bank's Midterm Review (MTR)
mission speculated that contractors were compelled to pay high "efficiency wages" to reduce turnover and
attract workers who would lose social assistance benefits (MTR Report, p. 18-19).
While temporary jobs on microproject sites were well targeted at low-skilled unemployed workers,
they did not culminate significantly in skills upgrading or long term employment. Newly hired workers and
contractors/employers reported during the 1999 survey that microprojects provided few opportunities for
workers to increase their skills. There was anecdotal evidence during the midterm review and later field
trips that contractors offered employment after microproject completion to one or two newly hired workers
who performed well, but no statistically representative data was available. (MTR Report, p. 17). Most
newly hired workers (86 percent) expected they would be unemployed once again after the completion of
the microproject (anti-poverty study, p. 32). Even though microprojects provided few opportunities for skill
upgrading and long-term employment, there were likely externalities that cannot be quantified, such as that
the temporary jobs likely helped to prevent existing skills from deteriorating and boosted workers' morale
which may contribute to a more active job search in the future (MTR Report, pgs. 17 and 54).
Income Transfer
The relatively high wages paid by contractors meant that microprojects played a significant income
support role. Over three-quarters of newly hired workers reported that their income increased due to their
employment on a microproject site, and wages paid were the main source of income for 95 percent of all
workers hired and the main source of household income for 79 percent (anti-poverty study, p. 26).
A key indicator for monitoring the RIF's income transfer impact is cost per dollar transferred. On
this indicator, microprojects have low cost-effectiveness. Based on payroll data of 85 microprojects, the
PMU estimated that the average cost per labor day was 76 DEM (Quarterly Report, March 2001, p. 13).
This compares to a finding of DEM 67 of prelirninary data from the first 49 microprojects (PSR, December
3, 1999). The World Bank estimated it cost BGN 12 to transfer BGN 1 through microproject wages, so on
strictly economic grounds it would be difficult to justify the RIF as an income transfer mechanism (MTR
Report, p. 21). This estimate was based on preliminary data so the actual costs may be much higher. (It
should be noted that the calculation of the income transfer ratio is done taking into account the total costs
of the created infrastructure. This infrastructure fulfills specialized social purposes and covers a whole set
of objectives of which income transfer is one. This is discussed at length in the next section.)
- 49 -



How do microprojects compare to other mechanisms to finance temporary employment and
small-scale infrastructure in Bulgaria? Comparative analysis on cost efficiency is complicated by an
absence of valid comparisons. The National Employment Service's Temporary Employment Program
(TEP), also run through the MOLSP, is a program that provides temporary work for a maximum period of
live months. It is not directly comparable to the RIF because microprojects create tangible community
assets whereas TEP workers are engaged in routine maintenance such as street sweeping. The MOLSP's
B3eautiful Bulgaria (BB) also is not directly comparable because BB investments finance primarily building
facades with little attention to the interior or utility of facilities. Moreover, there may be hidden costs in
TEP and BB programs that are not counted as administrative costs, such as equipment provided by
municipalities and the use of ministry or local government personnel to design and supervise activities.
Better Services
While the net wage benefits of microproject job opportunities were relatively low, microprojects
vere widely appreciated by communities and local governments for extending, restoring and preserving
basic services and public assets such as water and sewage infrastructure, school buildings, health facilities,
streets, small bridges and market places. The Beneficiary Impact Assessments (BIA) and the Bank's
Midterm Review Report concluded that the benefits from improved services were significant and
community members expected these benefits would be more long lasting and would benefit many more
persons than income benefits from temporary jobs. In 1999 and 2000, the BIA found that 90 percent of
respondents thought their microproject was "rather useful" or "very useful". On the whole, the social
effects of the microprojects were significant and appreciated by local government representatives and
residents. The principal social effects identified by residents were temporary jobs and improved facilities.
Table B. Typology of Approved Microprojects (data as of April 2001)
Hlealth/Social         56       25%        7,039,254      23%
'Water Supply          42        19%       6,676,422      22%
|Sanitation            27        12%      4,787,514       16%
E]ducation              32       14%      4,086,099        14%
Roads                 221        9%        3,249,629       11%
Erosion Control        11       5%        1,229,887       4%
Fown Markets            8        4%        1,051,447       3%
Cultural Buildings      10       4%         929,640        3%
Irrigation Canals       2        1%         154,946        1%
Innovative              16       7%        1,028,110       3%
Total                  225      100%     30,232,953       100%
source: PMU/MIS
The RIF experience illustrated that the SIF has much potential to introduce more cost efficient
norms in schools, public buildings and other microprojects to enhance longevity and lower maintenance
costs. According to the PMU, the Ministry of Regional Development issued new energy-efficiency
standards for public buildings in January 1999 based on European Union norms, and consultants were
tequired to include these normns in Bills of Quantity (BoQ) for RIF microprojects. The RIF also piloted the
- 50 -



construction of a new model of social homes for "socially disadvantaged, physically and mentally disabled"
youths.
In addition, the local government authorities, who were in most cases the formal RIF partners, had
limited experience with formal procurement procedures. RIF experts trained their local counterparts and
led and supervised them in the implementation of the standard World Bank procurement procedures for
selecting contractors. This resulted in the selection of higher-quality lower-costs bidders, and helped build
the capacity of the local counterparts for conducting efficient procurement procedures.
The microproject experience demonstrated that some RIF policies and procedures need to be
refined to enable the SIF to better reach people living in poverty and navigate the political and social
constraints they face, including: (i) balancing limited resources with enormous need and heightened
expectations; and (ii) weighing the importance of access to services next to protection and extension of
infrastructure.
Needs versus resources. All social funds struggle with the exigency to balance limited resources
with enormous needs, and the RIF trial suggests that the SIF will too. The high demand for small-scale
microprojects reflects the poor state of Bulgaria's schools, water supply, sewage infrastructure, roads, and
other urban infrastructure and the considerable investment that will be required to upgrade these services.
But a social fund with job creation aspirations will encounter tension with its human development and other
social aspirations. To illustrate: Initially a labor content of 30 percent (later reduced to 25 percent) was set
as a minimum requirement for the approval of RIF microprojects in order to optimize job creation. To
achieve this percentage, microprojects with higher costs of materials were limited or delayed and equipment
was often excluded. As a result, there are numerous examples of RIF microprojects which would have had
greater impact if additional funds had been available for equipment: sewer works without treatment
facilities, partially-rehabilitated school buildings without sufficient desks and teaching materials, cultural
centers with new roofs but nonfunctioning heating systems (Technical Review, p. 5-6). The challenge for
the SIF will be to maximize the impact of its investments by using its leverage to attract, and help
communities attract, other funds, especially for equipment.
Infrastructure or people. While the RIF demonstrated that infrastructure and facilities could be
rapidly and effectively improved, the experience of the RIF revealed that the benefits of investments may be
allusive for the poor. Analysis of the RIF's effectiveness in household targeting is hampered by a dearth of
data. Post microproject implementation assessments (e.g. Beneficiary Impact Assessment) did not gather
evidence if poor households within microproject localities were benefiting from the new classrooms, health
centers, water and sewer infrastructure. Anecdotal evidence during field trips suggests that in many cases,
such as orphanages and other social homes, microprojects are reaching the extreme poor. But this is not
necessarily the case for all microproject types: connection rates for water and sewer services tend to lag
due to high costs for households to create indoor facilities, so their benefits may not be pro-poor. To
answer the question of whether, in fact, the poor within receiving municipalities are able to access the
benefits of microprojects, greater attention will be needed to improve evaluation methodologies, such as
quantitative household and facilities surveys and qualitative assessments, and to collect baseline data (such
as enrollment, attendance, and drop-out rates to assess improved student performance in school
microprojects).
Institution Building
Municipalities. The RIF contributed to Bulgaria's broader efforts to decentralize the provision of
public goods and services to local governments by delegating responsibility to municipalities to directly
- 51 -



manage microproject implementation. Under RIF procedures, municipalities identified microprojects in
accordance with local and regional development plans, secured permits and clearances from ministries and
other government agents, contributed 16 percent average microproject costs in cash and kind, procured
design and construction firms, appointed local work site supervisors, approved quality of works prior to the
PMU's release of payment to contractors, and took responsibility for recurrent operating and maintenance
costs. The experience of social funds around the world suggests that delegation of these tasks to local
governments bodes well for greater benefits in terms of local governance, accountability, local capacity
building and sustainability of local services.
Bulgaria's economic transition has entailed the rapid decentralization of fiscal decision-making for
schools, water, sewage, roads and social homes to municipalities. At the same time, there has been a
mismatch between the expenditure and revenue responsibilities allocated to municipal governments. In
order for the SIF to help municipalities and community groups cope with their new management and
financing responsibilities, greater attention must be paid to provision of technical assistance and training,
esaecially to increase their revenue-raising capacity and thus fulfill their recurrent costs commitments.
Although it is not necessarily the SIF's responsibility to provide this institutional strengthening, it is in the
country's interest that the SIF encourage it to happen.
One way the SIF can encourage and foster capacity building is by collaborating with existing local
gcvernance and institution building programs such as PLEDGE, Capacity 21 and Municipal Forum.
Another way the SIF can encourage local institutional development is by creating a grant window
especially for training and technical assistance that may or may not be tied to microprojects, but which
would aide local governments in preparing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating local investments.
Training topics could include budget estimation, fund-raising, procurement, financial management, citizen
participation and other topics based on demand from the local level. Also, in order for the SIF to contribute
to better local governments, SIF evaluation activities need to focus more on how municipalities are coping
with microprojects in the post-implementation stage. The BIAs and Technical Review of RIF microprojects
did not assess whether municipalities were fulfilling their commitments for operating and maintenance and
whether refurbishment produced desired savings through energy efficiency investments, etc. These are
important topics that should be evaluated on a yearly basis. The SIF could also consider adding some other
features that are common in other social funds, such as: (i) requiring communities to report back on
implementation of operation and maintenance plans and budgets (or "performance contract"); (ii) making a
second microproject in a municipality contingent upon successful implementation of the operation and
maintenance plan for the first microproject; and (iii) encouraging and investing in development of users
associations for schools, water, and other microprojects.
Finally, RIF did have clear internal rules and procedures. However, accountability is a two-way
street, and the RIF was not always perceived from the outside as a transparent and objective funding
mechanism. The SIF will have to be more transparent to eam and preserve its credibility among local
governments and the public by abiding by clear rules of the game for microproject approval and avoiding
discretional microprojects without public disclosure and justification.
Contractors. RIF microprojects yielded important evidence that small private firms could deliver
high quality works in a proper incentive structure, with close supervision by RIF staff and on-site
supervisors. Threat of disqualification from future contracts also seemed to be a strong incentive for
contractors to perform well. Emphasis on accountability and discipline in preparation of bids, adherence to
technical designs, contract values and implementation schedules may have improved overall capacity of the
small business sector.
- 52 -



Innovative Microprojects
Whereas the PMU acquired good capacity to administer infrastructure microprojects, it did not
acquire sufficient capacity to prepare, appraise, and evaluate business support or "innovative"
microprojects. Consequently, it would be premature to include training, equipment and other innovative
microprojects on a large scale in the SIF using the RIF guidelines, procedures and PMU skills mix. The 16
innovative microprojects (including seven from World Bank funds) financed machinery, equipment and
training/retraining of workers. The World Bank Midterm Review assessed the progress and lessons learned
of the first nine innovative microprojects and concluded that innovative microprojects were well targeted at
women and poor minority groups and worked well with local NGOs, but greater capacity was needed in the
PMU to prepare, appraise and evaluate innovative microprojects before more could be justified. The World
Bank team  found serious recurring problems:  insufficient evidence of demand for trained labor;
concentration on jobs in state-owned enterprises rather than in private businesses; insufficient analysis of
intermediaries' financial and management capacity; poor analysis of expected outputs and impacts; and
absence of justification for making direct and indirect subsidies to businesses (MTR Report, p. 22-24). The
World Bank team recommended that technical assistance be provided to assist the PMU to administer
business support microprojects. Though with UNDP participation some international assistance was
provided to review the on-going innovative projects and to provide technical inputs to their appraisal,
monitoring and evaluation, the improvements in the administration of these activities remained limited.
Because seven of the innovative microproject grants were awarded to business incubators, training
centers and other business support organizations (BSOs), any policy to include these types of investments
in the SIF portfolio should take into account not only the limited exposure of the RIF to such investments
but also lessons emerging from similar programs in Bulgaria. A survey and evaluation of BSOs in Bulgaria
undertaken in 2000, for example, concluded that there is a great need in Bulgaria for BSO services such as
working and investment capital, market analysis, and marketing support. The authors found that most
BSOs were created with donor funds and lacked means to operate without outside subsidy even after
several years of service provision. Even though most BSO charters stated they were oriented towards
start-up businesses, most serviced larger, more established entities. The survey also found a wide disparity
in types of services offered and competencies among BSOs (Stocker and Benov, November 2000). Clearly
more understanding is needed of the risks, costs, and benefits of these types of investments in the Bulgarian
context before integrating them into the SIF, as well as appropriate and well-tested guidelines, competent
human resources and a suitable administrative structure for conducting such activities. There is also the
need for good rules and definitions on the types of property (equity) to be financed through the social fund
(private versus public.)
Loan Guarantee Scheme
The MOLSP introduced a Loan Guarantee Scheme through the RIF in early 2001 to extend credits
through commercial banks to small and medium sized businesses. According to the PMU, the goals were to
create long-term employment by extending credit and improving borrowers' financial discipline and
accountability. Two regional schemes were designed in the towns of Razgrad and Gabrovo. A total of
300,000 Lev (US$ 166,000 equivalent) have been extended to 10 borrowers through the Central
Cooperative Bank in Razgrad, ranging in size from Lev 10,000-40,000 (US$ 5,500-22,000). Another 4
credits were extended in Gabrovo where more applications are being processed.
- 53 -



Labor Market Studies
As planned, two rounds of the labor force survey were undertaken and the results published. The
Netherlands Economic Institute won the contract to undertake the net impact evaluation of active labor
market programs and published its final results in May 2001. The National Employment Services is
expected to prepare before end 2001 policy alternatives and recommendations to the MOLSP based on the
lindings of the evaluation.
- 54 -



S
a
ft
0-00zCC0*00m ox-v 0C*--H0mr,, 000000 00Z&0010 *oo0    -
0      .0.00  0             * 0    - 0   0   0*    *000 * 00 0 --  *
*.0o0.o.*o:zo.*o               .r*
* 0003o*ooo0
20        2"2*                         0
*        .        -       -o *          .00    .*
- * 0     0-0* 0*0   000
-' .0*00             - - - - -
000000.,                        0--**               0    *000fl*0
00 **00< .0;0020               ;oo
0S0                     o                          -   0           0  0
ooo-, ro 000*00    *0                                                      0
000   * 0*30          0     -
* 0            0   - * 0          00   *   ;Ooo
oC0* 0*         00 0              000               - 00        00 - - o
0ooo,oa:00*00o 0       0  *0 0 00    2             0
000.<oCOr0000                                      * 0 *
0 O*0g0o-, '0         0*o0.0      0o                            COO  0
00, 00,3        0000
*   40        000                    o
'3    0
0   ooo2   0 2                                      000 -
0030   *                               00  00                      0          9
*   0                0 *00   - 000                        0
* 0004                                                 o<                0
0*03                 0   -                   03                               ft
0   *00   -                                              ft
0   *   *                   *  0
dl                                0                                                        0
0000                                                                            0.
ft
0.
0             0"
-I
'*1
0
5
ft
0
0
9
Laws    -
0.
C,
0*0   oo,o 0-0oooooo* * oow-owo,o-o,owoo 00     0000*000*0*00
00000000w000000000000000000000               r
r
ccooooo*,oo0000000 oowoooo*ooooooovoorooor r00'0000 XC) 0000000  3    Ca
3033        =ooo        oooo.,ooo00000    0*0=  *00. *             OOC
* 000000000000000                                 0.
0000  000o  - -                       we * 000
0  0  0  0   2  2  -  0              0   0  0  *



