Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 8380-BUL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING AND INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 9.09 MILLION
TO
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FORA
REGIONAL INITIATIVES FUND PROJECT
November 6, 1998
Humani Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 16, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lev (plural Leva)
I Lev= US$0:0006
US$I = 1,637 Lev
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
BANK FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALMP      Active Labor Market Programs
BB     Beautiful Bulgaria
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DEM      Deutsche Mark
EU     European Union
GBG      Government of Bulgaria
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC    International Consultants
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IFC     International Finance Corp.
IS    International Shopping
LCS     Least Cost Selection
LFS     Labor Force Survey
LIL     Learning and Innovation Loan
LOI    Letters of Interest
MIS     Management Information System
MLSP      Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NES     National Employment Services
NGO      Non-Government Organization
NS     National Shopping
NSI    National Statistical Institute
O&M      Operating and Maintenance
PAF     Preliminary Application Form
PLEDGE      Partners in Local Economic Development and Government Effectiveness
PMU      Project Management Unit
QCBS      Quality Cost Based Selection
RIF     Regional Initiatives Fund
SMEs    Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE     Statement of Expenditures
SOEs    State-Owned Enterprises
SPAL      Social Protection Adjustment Loan
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
VAT      Value Added Tax
.  Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Sector Leader: Michal Rutkowski
Program Team Leader: Jolhn Innes



iv
Bulgaria
Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
CONTENTS
Introduction ..................................................................                                                                                              2
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................    3
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................                                                                                      4
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ......................................    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................    4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...................    7
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................                                                                           8 
1. Project components ................ . . . . . . .....................    8
2. Key policy and institutionial reformis supported by the project                                                                     ............           8
3. Benefits and target population ...........................................................                                                                 9
4.  Institutionial and  implementationi arrangemiienits                                                    .........................................           ()
D. Project Rationale ..................................................................  13
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for re jection.13
2. Major related projects finaniced by the Bank and other developmelit
agencies ...........................................................                                                                                  14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project desigin ....................................   1 5
4. lindicationis of borrower commitmenit and owilersliip ...................................   15
5. Value added of Bank support ...........................................................                                                                  16
E. Summary Project Assessments ..................................................................    16
1. Economic and finanicial assessment ......................................................   16
2. Fiscal impact ..................................................................                                                                        16
3. Techniical assessment ..................................................................                                                                1 7
4. lnstitutionial assessmenit ................. .................7...............                                                                  ..   17
5. Social assessment ...........................................................                                                                          18
6. Environimenital assessment ...........................................................                                                                 1 8
7. Participatory approach ...........................................................                                                                     19
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                  ..........................................  19
I. Sustainability ..................................................................                                                                       19
2. Critical Risks ..................................................................                                                                       20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .........................................................                                                                21
G. Main Loan Conditions ..................................................................                                                                                21
H. Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................................   21



v
Annexes
Annex  I                Key  Performance  Indicators., .........................................................                                               22
Annex  2                Detailed  Project Description .........................................................                                                25
Annex 3                 Estimated Project Costs ..........................................................
Annex 4                 Financial Summary .........................................................                                                            34
Ani ex  5               Procurement and  Disbursement Arrangemilenits ......................................                                                   35
Table A                    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangemilents ..................................    8
Table B                    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .....................  39
Table C                    Procurement Plan .........................................................                                                     40
Table  D                   Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds ....................................................                                            41
Aninex 6                Project Processing Budget and Schedule .............................................  42
Ani ex  7               Documents  in  the  Project File .........................................................                                             43
Aninex 8                Statement of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria ...................................  44
Aninex 8a               Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio ...........................  45
Annex 9                 Country at a Glance .........................................................   46
Aninlex 1 0             Environmental Data Sheet .........................................................                                                     48
Map                     IBRD 26532R



Page 1
BULGARIA
Regional Initiatives Fund Learning and Innovation Loan (RIF-LIL)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regionial Office
Date: November 6, 1998                                   Program Teamil Leader: Joli limiies
COniltry Director: Andrew N. Vorkink                     Sector Leader: Miclial Rutlkowsski
Sector Director: J. Clli istopiher  Lovelace
Project ID: BG-PE-55156     Sector: Social Protection    Programil Ob ective Cate"ory: P'overty ReduCtion
Lending Instrumenit: Learinig aid Ininovationi Loan (LIL)  Programii of Tiar-eted
Interventions:             X]  Yes    I I No
Project Financing Data              [X]   Loan      [   Credit     I I Guarantee   I I  Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amotiult (US$m/SDRrn): DEM 9.09 millioni - US$5 millioni equivalelit
Proposed Termis:                        [ ]   Multicuirrenlcy   [Xi   Single currency. l)EM
Grace period (years): 5           []   Standard Variable   I I    Fixed       IXI  1113OR-base(d
Years to maturity: 20
Commitmenit fee: 0.75% undisbursed loan balance, less any waiver
Front-end fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$m) exclusive of taxesl:
Source                              Local              Foreign           Total
I BRD)                                                     4.2                 0.8              5.0
Goverinimlenit of Bulgaria                                 0.3                 0.0              0.3
UNDP                                                       0.2                 0.2              0.4
interilmediaries (e.g. Munlicipalities, NGOs)              0.6                 0.0              0.6
Total         5.3                1.0              6.3
Borrower: Republic of Bulgaria
Guaranltor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MLSP)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                              1999        2000      2001
Aninual            0.5         3.6       0.9
Cumulative             0.5        4.1        5.0
Project implementationl period:       Expected effectiveness date:         Expected closing date:
24 months                             12/15/98                             4/30/01
'Taxes of US$800,000 equivalent to be paid by the Government of Bulgaria.



Page 2
Introduction
Seven years into the transition process, Bulgaria is still in the early states of major economiiic and
institutional reforms to restructure its centrally-planned system to a market economly. Social hardsilips
caused by the change have been severe. Today, Bulgaria is one of the poorest counitries in Central and
Eastern Europe with one in three Bulgarians living in poverty. Real incomiies and output have fallen by
over 50 percent and income inequality has increased.  In addition to sharp reductiolis in incolimes.
unemployment has been a problem since the start of the transitioni. Since 1993. unelmlploymllent levels
have fluctuated between 13 and 16 percent (in a country with a tradition of guaranteed employmilenit).
Long-terimi unemployment is amonig the highiest in the region. Nearly 30 percenit of those who are
unemployed have been out of work for over one year. and 30 percent for mor-e thani three years.
One of the serious risks to the reforn process is the possibility of growing resistance as the public
experiences the impact of job dislocations and reduced real incomiies resulting trom the divestiture of
state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The Government's reformi agenda for 1998-2000 entails the divestiture
of a major share of the capital stock of SOEs, especially in oil refinilig, power. mininig and gas sectors.
The reform agenda also includes transformationi of the social safety net to improve targetinig and overhaul
the pensioni and social assistance systems. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria outlines
the important role of the Bank in supporting the Govermilenlt in the constrainied fiscal environimiienit to
implemilenit the change agenda. The challenge is to build popular support for- the refo riims, sequencing
tiheni in suchi a way that they would be finanicially and operationally viable. and socially and politically
acceptable.
In response to this challenge, the Governmelt wishes to augmillelt social and economilic refokrim with
a social investimienit fund to empower the populationi to deal with social risks. Social investimlenit tinids or
social funids are quasi-finanicial intermediaries that chaninlel resources to private and public organlizations
and communiity groups to uidertake small-scale infrastruIctuire investimienlts (iiiicroprojects). Social finids
emilerged in Latin America about a decade ago to mitigate the social costs of structural adjustmIent. Thlcy
were conceived as short-terni compensatory mechianiisimis to create employmiienit and develop or restore
social and economic infrastructure, not necessarily to reduce poverty.  They demonistrated how a
goverinimlenit program could reach targeted groups and alleviate their plighit, thereby givinig stabilization
and structuiral adjustment policies time to take hold. The World Bankl 1996 Quality Assurance Group's
review of Bank-supported social funds concluded that social funids withi a short term  objective of
responding to emergency situations throughi the rapid creation of employmilenit opportunities are likely to
achieve their objectives.  They were also found to have considerable potential as instrulimienits of
collaborative partnership between public and private entities for sustainiable delivery of social services.
The Bank is responding to the Government's request for a social investimienlt funld by finanlcinig an
Learinig and Innovationi Loan (LIL) as part of a series of actions to deepen reform in the social sectors
and mitigate the social costs of transition. In lendinig and economiiic arid sector work, the Bank has
supported several strategic tasks in the social protection sphere. They incIlide the following:
*  Supporting pension reform  through the onigoinig Social Insuranice Adminiistrationi Project
(US$24.3 million) and the Social Protection Adjustmienit Loan - SPAL - (US$80 million
equivalent, anticipated Board date November 1998):
*  Consolidating currentt fragnmented social assistanice by improving targeting of vulierable
groups through the SPAL and strengthening the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy's (MLSP)
policy-making and analytical capacity through an IDF Grant (US$470,000);
*  Adldressing the social aspects of restructuring through the Regional Initiatives Fund (RIF) LIL
(US$5 million equivalent) by designing and developing a social fund to mitigate social costs of
transition through implementation of labor-intensivemicroprojects. As a follow-on effort to



Page 3
the LIL, it is envisaged that an Adaptable Program Loan (FY 2001) would finanice tile RIF to
expand upon and replicate successful approaches under the LIL. withi preparation support from
a Japanese PHRD Grant (US$488,000);-and
H Helping labor marketsfunction better througil the LIL by financing an evaluation of existing
active labor in arket programs (ALMPs) and gathering of employmlielnt/unllellploymlinelt data.
The findings and data would be the basis for ongoinig dialogue between the Government and
the Bank on labor markets and the meanis to deepen the policy refor-miis in this area.
A. Project Development Objective and Performance Indicators
The project development objective is to test the social ftnd mecilaniism as a means of improving
the standards of living among the poor and unemliployed durinlg the economliic transitional. Specifically.
the project would test the costs and benefits of uSilng microprojects financed through the RIF-1.II. as a
meanls to transfer income to the poor and vulnerable groups tilrougIl temporary employmenit creationl.
while at the same time usinig the poor's labor to build infrastructul-e for developmelit. Over the 24-miionitil
project implemilenitationl schedule, a Project Management Unit (PMU) unider the supervision of a
goverinmenit Steering Committee would supervise hilplemilenitationi of aboult 100 microprojects.  lhe
experience gained would inforn the Governmient about the risks, costs, and impacts of microprojects.
The results are expected to justify creation of the RIF as an aitonomilolis Governiment agency with a
particular social protection mandate and regulations that enable the RI F to capitalize on local initiative in
a cost effective manner. The results would inform the PMU in advance of its recomimlenidationis to the
Governmeit about the RIF's goals, policies, institutional arrangemilenits and regulatiois. This approach
allows for adjusting design of the RIF in future to reflect local level capacity and commitment, while
makinig a small amount of funds immediately available to municipalities and other interimiediaries to
undertake labor-intensive investments. SucCessful iilplemilenitationi of microprojects and developmelit of
the RIF through the LIL could be supported a follow up loan from the World Bank to enable the RI to
implement many microprojects throuigIloLIt the Country. The Eulopean Unioni (EU) also has articulated
interest in possible finanicilng of the RIF. The approach would enable the Government to build consensuis
amonlg key stakeholders around the goals, policies, instituitionlal arrangemenits and types of activities to be
supported by the RIF and how these intersect with the Govermenit's reforimi agenlda and maintenance of
the social safety net.
Performance Indicators. Social funds are used in Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union to
ftilfill a wide variety of functiols:  develop infrastrticture, attract and chaninel public and private
investmilent, create temporary jobs as a means of income support, boost demanld and capacity for private
businesses, strengthieni transparenlcy and capacity of local governmeits, foster civic responsibility and
ComImllullity participation and contribute to post-conflict reconstruiction. Silce the Governmelt's chief
motivationi for developiig the RIF is to create incomile earinig opportullities to help vulnierable groups. the
impact of the microprojects financed by the LIL would be judged against this objective in particular.
lndicators would focus on microprojects as:  (i) a more cost-effective meanis to transfer income to
vulinerable groups thani existing social assistance programs; and (ii) a more effective and efficient
instruLImelnt for employment creation thani existing ALMPss run by the Government. Income transfers
wvould be assessed through an Evaluation of Microprojects as an Anti-Poverty Program (section C.4).
Indicators to be moniitored include the administrative cost per dollar of income transferred, earinigs of
the laborers hired compared with mean consumption, leakage, and targeting. Employment effects would
be judged against impacts of ALMPs that would be evaluated under Componelit 11.  Criteria for
comparison include: profile of laborer by age, gender, employment history, education, duration of
employment; and impact on wage rate and demand for labor. Infrastructure outcomes also would be
assessed usinlg cost per unit of infrastructure developed (such as meter of road paved or pipeline laid) in
comparisoni with costs through public sector agencies and municipalities.



Page 4
Other key indicators would be the related to the institutionlal developmenit of the RIF. that: (i) the
composition of the Steering Committee/Board of Directors for the RIF iIcludes Governmiienit and nonl-
governmental entities; and (ii) the RIF has been established with autonomotis legal status to work witl
municipalities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and civil society organizations.
B. Strategic Context
1. S.ector-related C'ountry Assistance ,Strategy (C'AS,)GoaCol .vzqport'f ec tb11 Proejec,t
CAS Document number: 17655                    Date of latest CAS discussion: April 28, 1998
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bulgaria highlights protecting the poor and vulinerable
during economilic transition as a central element of the Bank's suppor-t to the Government's econloillic
reform  program.  The CAS lays out the case for social safety net reformii. aimed, initer a/i. at:
(i) ensuring that the continuinig costs of transitioni are socially sustainiable: (ii) reducing poverty: and
(iii) reforming the social safety net to reduce fiscal costs, improve thie labor market, and reliably provide
social protection to Bulgaria's population. The CAS views the development of a social fuid mechanism
as a key step in a broader agenda of Bank support to the social sectors over the next three years involving
investment lendinig in support of implementation of the SPAL-supported reforis. These reforms aim at
improved targeting and robust finanicial and institutionial framewor-ks for the provision of better quality
social assistance and health services, protection and/or raising of kev benefits, efficiency imlprovements
and resource allocation withinl safety net programs, and changes in labor mar-ket policies consistent with a
market-driveni economy.
While reforms are expected to have a positive iilpact on growthi, whicih will improvc living
standards over the medium term, experience to date suggest the need for social assistance to protect the
poor and vulnerable increases during the economilic shocks accompanying transition. The RI F-l,l  v-otild
help imimiediately a small part of the population deal with social risks throuigih temporary jobs created by
iilplemiienitationi of about 100 microprojects. By buildinig the institutionial capacity of the RIF, the 1.11.
will expanid futtire opportunities for incolmle support throtigil temporary jobs. and will create a vehicle fol
the promotioni of community involvemilenlt in employmenit creation and poverty reduction. By evaluatimn
ALMPs (training, retrainilng, wage subsidies, public employmilent) and  making the  legal and
admniistrative framework more conducive to microcredit (important for self-employment), the Ill. will
support the Governmenit's goal of integrating workers affected by restructurl-illn inlto other productive
activities.
2. Mtiin SNector Ixsues and Gover-inment S,trateg,
Stabilization, Reform and Poverty. Bulgaria's transitionial recession was deeper and longer thani
that of most other Central and Eastern European economies. Despite an initial bold reform program,
subsequenit political instability and erratic macroeconomic and fiscal policies led to highi and variable
inflationl and dramatic exchange rate depreciation. Output fell for five consecutive years and was
accompaniied by a sharp rise in unemilploymenit which reached a peak of nearly 20 percent in 1994. The
severity of the economic crisis at the beginning of 1997 had a disastrous impact oII Bulgarian houselholds.
The nominiial wage in the budget sector averaged just US$20, an amount insufficienit to purchase even the
most basic foodstuffs for an average-sized household of three persons. Conditionis were even more dire
for those dependent on cash transfers from the state.
The Government's rapid restoration of macroeconomic stability in 1997 brought inflationi down,
restored confidence in the Lev, and improved the fiscal situation. In parallel with its stabilization efforts,
the Govermiienit initiated structural reforms in banking, agriculture, energy andSOEs. Over the next 2-3



Page 5
years, high priority will be given to consolidating the stabilization gains and accelerating the process of
structural reforms enhancing the role of the private sector.  This requires continiued emphiasis on
enterprise restructuring and privatization, financial sector reform  (includiing strengthening of bankiilmg
regulation and supervision), more aggressive liberalization of trade and prices. reformn of state
administrationi, judiciary and the civil service to establish a fair and predictable legal and adminiistiative
business climate, and reform of the social protection system to ensure social and finanicial sustainabilitv.
Structural reforn of the economy has and will pose additional hiardshilps on manay houselholds-
albeit on a temporary basis. Real incomes and output hlave fallen by over 50 percenit in the last sevenI
years and there has been a concomitant increase in poverty and inequality. Whereas in 1992. 5 percent of
the population fell below the poverty Iie. in 1997 the figure was over 36 percent. The(iinii coefficieint
registers increased income inequality from 0.27 in 1991 to 0.32 in 1997. lopuiationi glOUpS particularly
affected by poverty are the long-term unemployed (70 percent of'worker-s unemC1ployed have been so tor
more thani one year), citizens aged over 70 years, households with manly childieni, those dependenit on
social benefits or noni-formal employmilenlt as the maini source of' incomiie, and particuilar millority etinlic
groups. The high rates of long-term unemployment are especially alarming given the strong, correlation
withi poverty.
Social Assistance Issues. Bulgaria's social protection system as cul-rrietly structured is uniable to
satisfactorily fulfill either an income replacemenit or a povertv relict' fLunctioin, nor can individual benefits
be raised to meaningful levels without exceeding fiscal expenditure targets. Funding tor social assistance
programs (including family allowances for the unilIsured) is derived fi-om general revenlues allocated
throughi the state budget or by means of block grants to local governments wvhich. in turin, allocate thle
block grant funds and own revenues to programs for whichi they are responisible.  By and large.
decentralizationi of the basic poverty relief funlctioni has not worked well in Bulgaria.  Although a
minimuilmll  poverty benefit, based on a survival basket of food requiremiienits, is manidated by law and, in
principle, forms the basis for the means-tested Differentiated Basic MinimumillI Incomiie program, in
practice, Iess than a quarter of the poorest households receives assistance regularly duc to severely
constrainied budgets, the limited bargaining power of the poorest groups and program design flaws whiich
assigned uliduly low weights to childreni in the benefit calculation.
Despite high overall costs, the quality and iilpact of some programs withiin the system  is open to
questiol. Moreover, the present system is likely acting as hinidranice to economiiic growth, iniuer az/ia by
raising labor costs in the formial sector, encouraginlg increased "inforiiializatiol" of the economily, and
creating work disincenitives. Resumption of steady economic growth, coupled with systemic refomill,
incilidinig iilproved efficiency and better targeting of social protection programs, is crucial to reversing
the trend towards increasing poverty.
As a result of the economic and social crisis in 1996-97 and the concomiltanit rise in awareness of
the shortcomiiilngs of the existing system  of social protection, the present Bulgariani Govermiienlt hias
placed a higil priority to social protection reform.  Its overarching sector reform  objectives are to:
(i) ensure adequate protection of clearly identified vulnerable population groups throughi improved
targeting and provision of meaningful benefits and quality services: (ii) ensure the medium- and longer-
rumn fiscal sustainability of the social protection system  in a manier consistent with economic growth
objectives: and (iii) increase the fiscal transparemicy and reduce duplication and fragmenitationl amonlg the
various social protection programs.



Page 6
Labor Market Issues. Recent labor market developmienits in Bulgaria hiave contribuited to
growing poverty. Specifically, unemployment is hiigh anid risinig, as is wage differenitiationi. The miassive
misallocation of labor and capital inherited from the old systemi nlecessitates a large-scale miovemlenit of
workers and makes high unemployment likely. if not inievitable. A particularly worrisomie featLure of
Bulgariani uniemployment is high and growing inicidenice of lonig-termi uinem ployment. Initerniationial
experienice demonstrates, that if the rise in uniemploym-enit is associated with the inicrease in long-termi
uniemployment, the capacity of labor markets to reinitegrate a large iiumiiber of thle untemiployed back inlto
productive employment is limited. This implies that there is a danger that highi uniemiploymienit will persist
in the shiort- to mnedium-termi, anid that a conlsiderable period of strong econiomlic gtrowthi is necessarv to
reduce unemployment to an acceptable level. Unemploymient is the hiighiest amiong, workers wvitlh little or
nlo skills, anid amiong ethnic miniiorities, who tend to hiave low eduicationial attainmienlt.  In or-der- to
overcom-e it, the number of workers withi low skills nieeds to be reduiced aind thle eduicationial systemn
geared to the nieeds of a m-arket econooiy.
The profile of the workers who are likely to becomie unemployed durlinlgl thec couirse of thec plannied
restruicturinig of thie steel, mininiig, anld chiemical sectors wvill be differenit fromi the profile of thie currienitly,
uniemiployed. Maniy workers whio are vulnierable to job loss hiave relatively hli gl but job-specific skills
anld their reservation wage (the lowest wage that is acceptable to take ulp emiploymienit) miay be
signiificanitly highler than that of thle low  skill workers whio are Cuirrenitly preponideranit amionig thec
uniemiployed. This creates additionial chialleniges for emiploymenit anid job promiotioni policies. Thei basic
priniciple is. hiowever, that whilie labor miarket policies cani temiporarily alleviate thle hiardshiip associated
Withl unemiploymienit, eithier by providing inicomie suipport. or- temporary emiploymienit, the private sector is-
thle key to fuiture produictive emiploymienit of thlose affected by' econlomiic restrutuCLrinig.
Highi tunemiployment in Bulgaria springs fromi depressed labor demianid. Depressed labor demianid
comies from a decline in economi-ic activity, but it also results fromi hiigh labor costs anid labor miarket
rigidities (e.g. hiighi firinig anid othier imiplicit labor costs). In par-ticuilar. payroll taxes (finiancinig penisionl.
untemiploymienit anid other benefits) are hiighi (41 pprcenit paid by emiployers anid 3 percenit paid by
emiployees).  This level of taxationi conitribuites to the growthi of the iniformial sector anid suibstanitial
uniderreportinig of wages by the private sector. This inl tuirn shirinks the tax base, forcinig hligher tax rates.
To avoid this vicious circle, payroll tax rates miust be lower-ed thirouighi penisionl reformi anid cost-
effectiveniess of labor market policies improved.
The rise in earninigs iniequality im-plies ani increase in the inicidenlce of low pay anid thle deterior-ationi
of the earninigs statuIS Of lOW paid workers. The inicidenice of low pay is partiCuilarly highi amionig less
eduicated workers, womeni, anld ethinic miniiorities. ThuLs, upgradinig skills of the least eduIcated cani lead to
hiighier earniniigs anid lower poverty.
Governmiient's miaini objectives in the area of labor anld uniemiploymienlt are inicreasinig the flexibility
of the labor miarket, im-provinig work inicentives for thie uniemiployed anid providinig adequate protectionl to
laid-off workers in a fiscally sustainiable miannier. A seconidary aimi of reformis in this area is to conitaini
costs by eliminiiatinig duplicative program-s and increasing the efficienicy anid effectiveness of ALMPs.
Progress of Social Protection Reforms. The first steps have beenl takeni by the Governmienti
toward achiievinlg the social assistance anid labor miarket reform- goals. The process of reducinig the
buirdeni of social taxationi has begun with a decrease in payroll conitributionis to thie Uniemploymenlt Funid
fromi 7 to 4.5 percent and introduction of cost-shiarinig betweenl employers anid emnployees. Furthier
reduictionls to 3 percent are plainned in the coming year. The World Banik-financed SPAL supports
restrictinig overall payroll contributions for pensions from the current level of up to 48 percent to nio more
than 30 percent.



Page 7
To protect living standards during structural adjustment, severance payments comm1ienisurate witli
age, lengtlh of service and remuneration for works retrenched from the public sector were initiated in late
1996 and significantly expanded in 1997. To date, nearly 50.000 NNorkers have opted for severance paly.
with the average payment received at 383,000 Leva. State enterprise worlkers unemieployed unider the
adjustmenit program also have the option to receive ullemployml1enit benefits in lieu of severance pay. This
optioin has been taken up by a relatively small proportion of workers. ,enerally by those close to
retirement age. Reforms to shift the functioni of assisting the long-termi unemployed. school-leavers and
others from the Unemployment Fund to the social assistance system have also started.
Work incentives to the unemployed have been affected b\ lowering miiiinimum  unemployment
benefits from 90 percent to 80 percent of the mininmum wage in recognition of the rise'in the minimum
wage relative to the average wage.  To furthler encourage employment among recipients of social
assistance, meastires will be adopted to permiit the first 30 perceint ot' earined incoimie to be disregarded
whieni determiniing eligibility for the meanls-tested basic Illimulilmlill inlcomiec program. The Labor Codc \\ ill
also be reviewed to ensure accordance withi EU standards.
Infrastructure  Issues.    The  poor  state  of  Bulgaria's  public  infi-astu-tictuire--tianisporti
telecomim tinlicationis, energy and urban services--is ani in portanit constiainit to private sector developmeit.
Limited access and unreliable water, electricity and telephonie services raise the cost of doing businiess
and dissuade potential foreign investors. Deteriorating roads impose additional costs ol' operationl on
transport-dependenit private businesses. Considerable investmllent is requir-ed to upgrade ur-bani services
and infrastricture, includinig water, sewerage, solid waste maniagelmlenit and urbani transport.  h'liese
services have deteriorated considerably in recent years as responsibility for mainitenianice and investimienit
has been transferred to localities whichi do not have tile finanicial and humlan resources to fuilfil their
obligations. Local and regional autilorities lack experience in planning and implemilenitinig investieinlits for
these services, as well as for decentralized healtil and educationlal facilities.
3. Sector Issues lo be Adkdressetl hY ihe Proicc and ltralegic ('hoices
Thle proposed project would complemiienlt the social assistance and labor market reformi strategies in
a nuimiiber of direct ways: (i) creating a social fund mechianiisimi (tile RIF) to expand opportUnities for
temporary employmiienit and COImmIIIunLity involvemilenit in employmi1enit creationi and poverty reductioni;
(ii) supporting  legal and  adminiistrative  reformis conducive  to microcredit for self-employmiienlt;
(iii) testing the cost-effectiveness of developing small infrastructure that uliderpinis private sector activity
througil grants (microprojects); (iv) initiatiniga net imipact evaluationi of Al-MPs, whiclh will guide fiurtiler
policy developmenit and provide recommenidationls and best practices for labor market activities to be
supported    under   anothier   investmenit;   and   (v) restoring   the   informationi   base   on
employmilenit/unlemploymenit data which underpins labor market policies.
This project would complement ongoing and planned investimienits in infrastrticture by investinig in
areas not currenitly targeted, especially small municipalities and neiglhborhioods. Professional personniel
of public and private entities would also be trained in microproject maniagenmenit. If necessary, design and
constrtictioni norimis would be updated to improve efficiency.



Page 8
C. Project Description Summary
1.  Project Components (see Annex 2 for a dletailecd dlescriptio)n caind Annex 3 for a (letaiiledl cost
hreakdown)
The project has three components: (i) microprojects. to intform the Government of the risks. costs
and benefits of microprojects and to justify developmenit and design of the RIF: (ii) labor market analysis.
includinlg two labor force surveys, a net impact evaluationi of ALMPs. and investigation of legal anld
adminiiiistrative chaniges conducive to microcredit: and (iii) project management. including operating costs,
traininig, techinical assistance, monitorinlg and evaluationi activities ofimicropr-ojects and w\ork by the 'MUI
to desigil and develop the RIF on behalf of the Governimenlt.
Component                  Category        Cost Incl.       /.o of     Bank-        I% of
Contingencies    Total    financing       Bank-
(US$m)                   (US$m)       finalicinig
1. Microprojects: This component        Physical          4.7           750io       3.8          76°o
would finance about 100
microprojects identified and prepared
by municipalities. NGOs and other
intemiediaries, with an average cost of
US$45,000. Examples of
microprojects include water supply,
sanitation, solid waste managemenit,
soil recovery, rehabilitation of local
hiealth uLnits, schools, feeder roads and
irrig,ation works.
11. Labor Market Analysis: This       Institution-        0.4            6%xo       0.4          8%
componienit would finance: (i) two      building
labor foice surveys: (ii) a net impact
evaluation of ALMPs: and
(iii) techinical assistance to assess legal
and adminiistrative changes to
encoUrage microcredit.
Ill. Project Management: This           Proiect           1.2           19°%o       0.7          15%
componienit would finance the        Management.
adminiistrative and operational costs of    Institution-
the implementing agency (PMU staff      building
salaries, equipment. vehicles,
operating costs, training, technical
assistance, moniitoring and evaluation)
for: (i) oversight of microprojects: and
(ii) RIF design and institutional
development.
I    Total*           6.3            100        5.0         1 00%1
*Ileltisixe of't'ronit-enld ft'e. US$50.,)00 equivalent.
2. Kei Policy andi1 InIstitution7al Reforms Su7pported ib' the Projec t
The project supports the Government's ongoinig reform  process by respondinig quickly to
uniemploymenit, loss of purchasing power, and falling living standards during structural change. The
project would capitalize on new avenues for action through closer contact with municipalities and other
interimiediaries in tackling problems of employment and infrastructure development. The RIF-LIL would
also provide some workers and others who suffer consequences of adjustment, some income-earning



Page 9
alternatives, thereby allowing the Government to continue with the reformis that are essential to fiuture
economic growth and employment creation. Given the unemploymilelit rate in Bulgaria, imimiediate
assistance is needed.
3. Beiefits and Target Population
Income Earning Opportunities. Initially, the employment effect of the proposed project wouild
be marginial due to the small size of the loan relative to demanid for employment. The creationi ot' short
tern  employmenit is expected to partially compenisate for the depressed labor demand/shortaoe of
employment in localities reached by the project. and to provide short-terimi carinings opportunlities to the
unemployed. An estimated 280.000 employee days of labor would be generated through the
implemiienitationi of microprojects. Temporary employmiienit helps to stop the erosioni of hulimanl capital as a
result of long-terimi unemliploymilent and helps to reduce incomiie ilnequalities through the income support
provided to the poor.
The challenige for the project will be to create employmilenit opportunlities for workers wvho will be
laid off in sectors undergoing restructuring wvho nieed employmient to tbridge to sustainiable employmiienit
that will only come with broad-based economilic recovery. Some of these \workers are likely to succeed
thirougih large-scale lay-off programs and small businiess developmenit programns run by the National
Employmilenlt Services (NES) with EU support, including lumiip sumil severance payments, small citerpr-ise
granits/credits, retraininig, job-matchinig and advisory services. T-his group may be interested in inicomile
earinig opportuLnities created throughi microprojects. Legislative relorimi for self-employmilenit may benefit
this group in the medium term, especially individuals interested in mo' ing into the service sector.
In localities where microprojects would be finaniced, the proiect is likely to gelnerate incomlie
earning opportullities for some long-terill unemployed with the capacity to work. manly of whomii live in
conditionis of deep poverty, characterized by low educationi and skill levels.  While muchi of the
employlmlenlt would require uliskilled labor, some skilled laborers Would be hiired (enginieers, masonis,
electricians, plumbers). It is expected that temporary employment will provide a stepping stone to regular
employmilenit: a goal whicil would be moniitored during implemilenitationl of the project.
Capacity Building.   If the microprojects are successfully implemilenited and produce desired
results. the project would result in a fully funictionial RIF. The RIF institutioll would represenlt increased
nationial capacity to target and assist poor and vulnierable groups in a more cost effective way thani currenlt
state structtires.  It would result in greater potential nationally to boost implementation capacity of'
mIllUnicipalities, NGOs. and other intermediaries who are assumlling increasinig responsibility for the
provisioln of iinfrastrIcture, social services and social assistance. The project would test approaches to
integrate the mainitenianlce of infrastructure with more adequate planniniig, budgetinig and the provision of
services. The project woould also increase the Govermillelt's capacity to monlitor and evaluate ALMPs.
Improved Infrastructure. The project would clarify the costs and benefits of improving the
coulitry's infrastructure throughi microproject grants (that in many cases would supplemlienit or leverage
mullicipalities' hiighly constrainied capital budgets) so that a comparisoni of these results can be made with
alternative mechanismis, such as the provision through central ministries. People in as maniy as 100
localities would benefit directly from the resulting improvements in the availability, regularity or quality
of mullicipal services through investmenits to expand and maintain inifrastructure.
Analysis of Bulgaria's Labor Market.  By restoring the informationi base for labor market
policies, the project would help the Government to identify groups that are the most disadvantaged in the
labor market, leading to better targeted labor market intervenitionis. The net impact study of ALMPs
would inform the Government on the targeting, cost-effectiveness and net impact of these programs, and
provide the basis for reallocating resources to the most effective programs. The results would inforn the



Page 10
Government about reforming specific labor policies, thereby improvin-g employmlienlt prospects for the
unemployed.
4. Institutional and Iimplementation Arrangements
Implementation Period.  The project would be imlplemlienlted over a period of 24 monlths.
beginninig December 1998.
Executing Agencies.  A  newly created Project Management Unit (PMU) would be the
implemenltinig agency for the project on behalf of the Government. with technlical support from the UJNDP
(durinig the first 18 months) and oversight from a Steering Committee headed by the MLSP. The lJNDP
has assisted the MLSP in recruiting PMU staff and a full-tlime interinationiall\ -recruilted Principal Advisor
to advise the PMU during the first 18 months of the RIF-LIL. (The Bank has given  no-objectioni to the
termis of reference, shortlist of candidates, and final selection of the PMlJ staff and Principal Advisor.)
PMU staff have been in place since August 1, 1998. The Principal Advisor assumiled his duties on
October 10, 1998.  The PMU  would supervise the implemilenitationi of microprojects along with
muinLicipalities and other interniediaries and, based on acquired experience, make recomimienidationis to the
Governmiienlt for the design and regulations of the RIF (see Anniex 2 fo r details). Once consenisuis is
achieved on the RIF, the PMU would take all the steps necessary on behalf of the Governm111enit to develop
the instituitionial capacity of the RIF so that it is fuLictionlal by the end of the LIL. PMU staff who perforimi
well would be considered for positionis in the RIF. The role of the LJNDP in providing support services to
the PMU in order to build its instituitionial capacity have been stipulated In a Project Docum11enit whichi was
signed between the Govermilenit's Executing Agent (the MLSP) and the UNDP on July 23. 1998.
UNDP's support service role is limited to:  assistance wvitlh reporting requlliremienits, direct paymenlt.
recruitmlenit of project personnel, organizationi of training activities, and procuiremiienit of goods and
services. The Project Document stipulates that the Governmiienet shall retaini overall responsibility ftor the
project througlh the MLSP. Any claim or dispute arising uLider or in conn1ectioni with the provision of
support services by the UNDP in accordance with the Project Documl1enlt would be hanidled pursuianit to
the Governimieiet's Standard Basic Assistance Agreement signed bv the IJNDP and the Govermillelt on
Auguist 20, 1992. Progress achieved by the UNDP in building the PMU's capacity in accordance with the
Project Documl1enit would be reviewed in the context of the mid-terimi review to be held by the Governmi1enit
and the Bank togethier with the UNDP by November 30. 1999. It is expected that an action plan for the
phasinig out of UNDP technical support would be agreed by or near this date.
Project Oversight. A Steering Committee of Governmiienlt and NGO representatives has been
established to oversee the activities of the PMU with a compositioni and termis of reference acceptable to
the Bank. In addition to approving microprojects and providing guidanice and oversight to the PMU, the
Steering Committee would endorse: (i) financial audits: (ii) quarterly progress reports and finanicial
statemelnts; and (iii) any changes to the Operations Manual for the RIF-LIL. The Steering Com mittee
would also receive the recommenidationis of the PMU (in the formi of a report) on the desigin and
regulationis of the RIF, promote a dialogue about the recommenldationls among policy makers and the
public, determinie a process to arrive at finial decisions, and ensure the PMU implements the RIF
effectively.
Accounting.  In accordance with the provisions of OP/BP 10.02, accountinig, procurement,
disbursement, and audits would be linked to maintaini effective finanicial maniagement so that the Bank
can receive accurate and timely information oni the project while minimizinlg administrative burdens and
ensuring good client service. The PMU has been staffed with qualified accounting, procurement, and
inforimiationi technology specialists. Technical assistance has been provided to the PMU to set up an
accounting system, establish a chart of accounts, and prepare finanicial reports in accordance with
Governmeit, Bank and UNDP requirements. The PMU would: (i) ensure accountability for project
funds; (ii) maintain timely records; (iii) maintain internal controls; (iv) report on the use of funds;



Page 1 1
(v) facilitate verification of reports by independent auditors: and (vi) provide inforimiationi to the Steering
Committee and the Bank as required. All accounts would be mainitainied separately froiii existinig
accounts of the Government, UNDP, and Intermediaries, using softw are approved by the Banlk. The
accounting arrangements would conforn to bothi the General Accoulitilig Standards of Bulgaria and to
published international standards. A financial managemilenit assessment is beingi undertakeni in October
1998 according to terms of reference acceptable to tile Banlk. The firim carrying out the assessment wtould
recommend to the Bank actions to ensure the PMU's capacity to deliver auditable finanicial statemenits.
The Government would ensure the agreed actions would be takeni by December 31. 1998.
Financial Reporting. Training and techinical assistance would enable the PMU to subimiit a
quarterly Project Financial Managemiienit Report in the agreed formiat to the Bantk. incltiding: (i) sumilliary
of sources and uses of funds by project categories of expenditLiles. showing the Bank loan and utinds
from other co-finaniciers separately (Govermiienlt, UNDP. cost-shiaring): (ii) sumimiary of expenditLires by
project componienits: (iii) sumimiiary of Statemenit of Expenditures (SOE) by individual application
reference nuiber and amounlt, (iv) Special Accounlt statemenlt providing reconiciliationi of amouLIts in tile
Special Account: (v) expenditures by disbursemenit category: and (vi) Balance Sheet slhowinig banik
balances, assets and liabilities of the project.
Financial Audit. The PMU would be responsible on belialf o- thie Government for providing to
the Bankl witilin four monitils after the end of the fiscal year the finanicial audit of the project. The auditor
would be acceptable to the Bank and selected in accordance with Banlk procedures. The audit would
begini withi the fiscal year endinig on December 31. 1998. and sNould incorporate a maniagemiienit and
procuremilenit review.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Project moniitorinig and evaluationi would be the
responsibility of the PMU. The objectives of the integrated monlitorinig and evaluationl system would be
to: (i) provide feedback on the implemenitationi and impact of microprojects as a basis for
recomimlenidationis by the PMU on the RIF's design and regulationis: and (ii) enable tile PMU to estimate
costs and benefits of microprojects so that comparisons can be made with other programs. An integrated
monlitorinig and evaluationi system will facilitate learinig and project supervisionl. It encomiipasses a
numiiber of tools: (i) microproject moniitorinig (process and impact) by PMU and municipal staff and
consultanits: (ii) a computerized managemenlt inforiimationi system (MIS): and (iii) evaluationis, includinig a
betieficiary assessmenlt, impact assessment and in idterimi review.
Microproject Monitoring. Microproject moniitorinig would be done by PMU staff or consultanits
who are responsible for several microprojects whicil would be visited periodically, and for wilich
individual reports are prepared and fed into the MIS. Good microproject moniitorinig is crucial because it
provides the baseline inforiimationi for beneficiary assessmenit and other evaluationis. For these purposes,
the appropriate personnel, approacih and frequency of microproject monitorinig would be considered
carefully by the PMU.  To be consistent with the participatory nature of the proposed project,
representatives of intermediaries will be included in the monitorinig of microprojects.
Management Information System (MIS). Successful social funds rely on an MIS as an internial
moniitorinig tool to provide transparency and accountability of finanicial flows, monitor civil works
progress based on field supervision reports, flag microprojects experiencing unusual delays and cost
overruns, and facilitate contracting and payment by storing information on contractors, suppliers and unit
prices. MIS-generated reports would be an integral part of the reports submitted by the PMU to the
Steering Committee and the Bank.
Beneficiary Assessment. A beneficiary assessment is a tool for project managers who seek to
gather informationi to assess the value of an activity as it is perceived by its principal users, the
beneficiaries. While the MIS system would store information on the direct impact ofinicroprojects, other



Page 12
methods are needed to detect changes in overall income and explore specific aspects of impact, either by
type of microproject or by type of beneficiary. A beneficiary assessmenit would be undertakeni to provide
the PMU with necessary inputs to improve its interventions with the target populationl and to deterimiine
the relationship between methods of microproject promotioni. appraisal. supervision, outcomiie and
impacts.
Impact Evaluation. An 'Evaluation of Microprojects as an Anti-poverty Programii" l'oLild be
undertakeni to gain empirical evidence of the transfer and stabilization benefits of wages and costs of
usinig microprojects as a means to transfer incomie.  The findinlgs would feed into the PMUJ's
recomimienldationls to the Steering Comimlittee and enable the Government to make a comilparisoni of'
microprojects with the benefits and costs of other income support programs. Drawing on the literature of
impact evaluation and the capacity of national researchers. the PMU would comimiliissioIn a study to
analyze the following conceptual issues usilng a combiniationi of researchi methiods. incltidiigt a survey of'
laborers hired unider work contracts finaniced by the proiect. field observations. foctis groups and key
informiianit interviews.
1.   Estimates of foregone incomes and other costs of participation in order to uniderstanid the transl'er
benefits to the poor via its distributioll fulictioni. The transfer benefit is the dith'erenlce between hotiselhold
incomile with the program and that withoLit it. The methiodology would restilt in estimates of the costs of
participation, incitidinig transportation, transactionls costs. and possible leakage. Researcher-s wvould makic
recomimlenldationis on hoiw transactioni costs for the poor can be lowered.  FEstilates of the level ol'
earinigs lost from alternative employmiienit or foregone incomile (incItidinig self-employmilelit, in for-limal
sector activity. time allocation withinl the houselhold) are also expected from the study.
2.    Estimates of the impact on targeting of wage rate, scale of operations and finianicinig, specifically:
*  Do the microprojects put upward pressure on the wage rate, thiereby redticinig the demanld for labor'?
*  Is the wage low so that the poor are self-selected into the program'? Does the wage rate keep the
noni-poor out of the program? Given a budget, at what wage rate is most likely to lead to attractinig
nonl-poor workers to the program?
*  Does the incomiie have a stabilization effect. that is. does it pre-empt acute distress and prevent poor
hotiselholds from onerotis adjustmilenits, sucil as distress-selling of productive assets? Does it have a
consumilptionl smoothinig benefit, offsetting declines during the low  seasons for tourisimi and
agriculture?
*  What is the cost per job created? How does this compare with meani constimptioln?
*  What is the cost per dollar of income transferred?
*  What is the ratio of wages in total cost? Which type of microprojects lend toward a higiler ratio?
*  What is the duration of employment?
*  Is there any evidence of job rationinig?  Under whiat circuLIlstanices (such as wage level) is job
rationinig likely to occur?
3.   The survey of laborers would produce insighit on demographics (age, gender), labor market history,
per capita incomile and consumptioni, and education level of laborers.
Midterm Review. A midtern review would coincide with the annual evaluationi of the UNDP to
be held in August 1999. The purpose of the review would be to: (i) evaluate project performance during
implemenitationi: (ii) provide PMU and the Government with immediate feedback on project achievements
as well as areas needing improvement, which would lead to corrective actions and changes, and
(iii) document the status of project execution for the benefit of the Government, including progress
achieved by the UNDP in building the PMU's capacity to implement the project.



Page 13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasossfi)r Rejec tioni
The project considered inclusion of a credit line for long-terni employment generationi but
discarded this option because: (i) the EU is having difficulty in disbuIsillg ftinds earimiar-ked ftor small and
mediulim enterprises (SMEs) through existing banking institLtion1s: (ii) anailysis is uLinderwav bv the
Interinational Finance Corp. (IFC) into impediments and opportullities ftor SME development and other
donors (Europeani Bank for Reconstructioni and Developmenit and the Government of the Netherlanids) are
interested in these activities; and (iii) the institutionial framework does not provide ftor small credit loanls
throUghi NGOs. InstitLtionial reforims are necessary before smiall credit canl be considered as a serioLIs
option. Conseqtienitly, the RIF-LIL would finanice technilcal assistance to investigate the legislative and
adminlistrative  impedimilenits  to  noni-banik  interimiediaries' delivery  ot' small credit and  maike
recomimienidationis to overcome im pedimiienits.
'I'he project preparation team considered supporting existing ALMPs (including the 'T'emporary
Employmiienit Program  run by the NES that enables munlicipalities to pay laborers' .wages up to five
monithis for minior cleaninlg and repair: wage subsidies to encouiragc employers to hire unlemiiploved and
disabled workers, and credits to uLnemilployed to start businlesses).  Wllile an existing adminiistrative
structure is in place to run these programiis (labor offices of the Nl.S), it would be premattire to devote tile
Bank's resources to these programs withoLit evidence to support their- cost-etl'ectivenless. ConsequeLitly. a
net impact evaluationi of ALMPs was incorporated into tile project.
Extension of the Beautiful Bulgaria (BB) program, with a wider tvpology of microprojects. was
also considered and rejected due to the Govermiienit's desire not to malie the UNDP a financing and
implemilenitilg mechianiisimi to hanidle activities on the scale envisaged for- the RIF after the Lll stage. 'I'hc
Govermiienit and the UNDP were unanimious in their desi-e to create a nationial institutioll that is legally
and publicly perceived as Bulgariani.  The BB  program  will be expanded to an additional 15
munllicipalities over the next two years, fOCusilIg on incomile generationi through bhusiniess iicuibators. Thl is
approach will allow the PMU to focus on infrastructure microprojects in the next 24 monlthis and the BB
to offer small businiess support. In this way the PMU will be able to leart from the BB experience and
incorporate lessons into design of the RIF. suchi as wlhethier and Llider what conditionis it makes sense to
do busilness developmenit throLIghi a social fLund. On a practical level, the PMU may collaborate with the
BB durinig the LIL, especially in accessing skills and procedures for the appraisal and supervisioni ol'
ininovative productive im icroprojects.
Thle project preparation team  considered grants to municipalities for local/regional economliic
developmenit planninii1g but discarded this option because it would duplicate a USAID programii, Partners
in Local Economiiic Developmenit and Governmenit Effectiveness (PLEDGE).  PLEDGE will work
througil Regional Associations of Municipalities and regional labor offices to assist communities facing
large-scale economiiic restructuring in planniiing economic developmenlt strategies. The PMU would seek
to collaborate with the PLEDGE program wheniever feasible.
The LIL approach is proposed here because it: (i) offers a flexible opportunity to test and promote
different integrative approaches to temporary and longer-term  employmenit: (ii) is conducive to small
scale innovationi and experimentationi; and (iii) facilitates better client responsiveniess in that it enables the
Bankl to meet an urgent Government request. It also serves as an effective catalyst for building consensus
amonig stakeholders. A sector investment loan was considered carefully, but was rejected as it did not
allow  for a rapid response to an urgent Government request for employment creation assistance.
Moreover, it would result in the Government contracting a larger loan thani could be justified currently



Page 14
given the uncertainties surrounding the parameters of the RIF. including tile most cost-effective
interventions, delivery mechanisms and target groups.
2. Major Related Projects Financed bY the Bank and Oher DeveloInnent Agencies (conildlethd. ongoing
andplanned)
Sector Issue                      Project                   Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects onl)
imllplemllenltationl  Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Reforn of social assistance  Social Protection Adjustment Loan -      Board
and employmiient policies    (US$80 miillioIn equivalent)          Plresentation
November 1998
Reformi of social insurance  Social Insurance Adminiistrationi -       S                  S
system                      (US$24.3 million). Effective April
1997.
Health sector reforms        Health Sector Restructuring -- (US$26     U                  S
million). Effective November 1996.
Restructure state-owned      Financial and Enterp.ise Sector     FulIk' disbursed
enterprises and banks        Adjustment Loan - (US$i00 millioni).
Effective January 1998.
Other Development Agencies
EU and UNDP                  Beautiful Bulgaria (US$3 millioni).
Civil works mlicroprojects.  Effective.
UJNDP                        Small Enterprise Developmenit
Small businiess development.   Program (US$1.1 million) E'ffective.
EU PHARE                     Emergency Social Assistance and Job
Short termi employment       Creation Project (40 million ECU).
creation.                    Effective.
USAID                        Bulgarian-American Enterprise Fund
Small businiess development.   (US$55 million). Effective.
USAID                        Local Government Initiatives (US$i
Strengthening of local       million). Preparation of second phase
government planning and     in progress.
adminiistration.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons Learn)zed an?d Reflected in the Project Designi
Lessons learned from social funds. The project design has incorporated the followilig lessons
and factors and would monitor their significance in Bulgaria during project implenmenitationi:
* political and institutional autonomy
* technically simple project design
*  strong local participation during all stages of the microproject cycle



Page 15
* well-defined appraisal criteria and transparent appraisal procedures
* regular and frequent financial and operational audits
* rigorous supervision of microprojects
* collaboration with ministries/agencies to ensure complementary objectives
* political support and commitment to the goals and integrity of the fund
* well-qualified, professional staff with a director with proven managerial experience
* promotion and technical support to communities to elaborate microprojects
Lessons learned from Bulgaria Portfolio Review. A number of issues featured promiielitly in
this year's portfolio review and have been taken into consideration in designiig the project:
*  PMU Capacity. Implementation of Bank-financed projects has not been fully satisfactory il
Bulgaria, constraining both the Bank's and the Government's ability to achieve intended
results. Though improvements have been made in the last two years, lessons emerging from
project implementation units suggest great attentioni is needed to staff recruitmenlt, training and
incentive structures. This influenced the type of support for the PMU from the UNDP. The
Bank's experience also points to the benefits of a significant role in project supervision by the
Resident Mission and development of any follow up project.
*  Counterpart funds and taxation. Lack of adequate budgetary provision for the Value Added
Tax (VAT) has slowed implementation in some operations. For the RIF-LIL, the MLSP would
access resources sufficient to cover taxes through its annual budgetary allocation.
-  Audit. To obtain the best possible audit services and the lowest fees, and to avoid having to
rush audit processes in order to meet legal obligations, the appointment of auditors was made a
condition of Board presentation.
4. Indications ofBorrower Commitment and Ownership
The Government of Bulgaria recognizes the heavy and inevitable social burden associated with
economic restructuring and privatization. During its dialogue with the Bank regarding reform of the
social assistance system, the Government expressed a keen interest in temporary and permanent
employment creation to relieve social tensions in regions with high levels of unemploymenit and where
restructuring would result in closures and job loss. The Government drafted a social fund law in early
1998, which is being revised. In July, the Government signed a contract with the UNDP to secure UNDP
technical support in preparation and implementation of the LIL. The Government also provided office
space, computers and equipment for the PMU staff in advance of loan effectiveness.
5. Value Added of Bank Support
The Bank brings to bear in the project its global experience in helping design social funds and
employment creation programs which can be an effective approach in achieving the objectives held by
the Government and the Bank. The Bank maintains an effective link with the Government for policy-
guidance and institutional development in social protection through its dialogue and ongoing investment
lending program of which the proposed project is a part. This project is an opportunity for the Bank to
use its development experience and influence to catalyze more effective collaborative networks with
donors in support of the Government's reform efforts.
E: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file.)
1. Economic and Financial Assessment
A project implemented by the MLSP with UNDP support has informed preparation of the RIF-LIL.
"Beautiful Sofia" was initiated in 1997 by the UNDP and Greater Sofia Municipality as a pilot project to



Page 16
formulate an appropriate strategy that helps relieve the acute unlemployment problem  through
refurbishing the city, including parks, facades, and cultural heritage sites. Beautiful Sofia supports
training for unemployed laborers who could be hired by contractors to execute works, and helps
municipalities plan and initiate urban renewal. Based on Beautiful Sofia's success, tile MLSP and UNDP
recently expanded the program to four additional cities ("Beautiful Bulgaria'") with funds from UNDP
and the EU totaling about US$3 million.  Investments financed under these projects are proposed,
appraised, executed and supervised using procedures similar to those used in successful social funds, with
participation by municipalities and execution of works by private contractors. No detailed economic and
financial analysis was undertaken ex ante for the Beautiful Sofia and Beautiful Bulgaria microprojects,
and a similar approach would be taken by the PMU for componenit 1.  However, basic econoiic
indicators such as labor content, cost per employee day created as well as cost benefit analysis where
possible, would be estimated during appraisal of individual microprojects as stipulated in the Operations
Manual. The PMU would also consider cost per beneficiary wheni comparing similar ilicroprojects. A
unit cost database that has assistcd the UNDP and municipalities in preparation and monitorinig of
budgets for microprojects would be adopted and expanded by the PMU.
2. Fiscal Impact
It is estimated that during the life of the project, about 280,000 employee days of labor would be
generated through financing of labor intensive microprojects.  Secondary employment and income
impacts are expected from demand for local suppliers, transporters, etc. in approximately 100
communities. Under ihe RIF-LIL, contractors are expected to hire unemployed as unskilled laborers and
to pay wages close to the minimum wage level. Wage levels and hiring restrictions or quotas would not
be imposed on contractors as experience in other social funds and public works programs shows
enforcement is costly and uncertain.  During the project, these indicators of income transfer and
employment would be monitored so that a comparison can be made with social assistance and ALMPs.
Municipalities which participate in the project will have to commit themselves to providiig
sufficient funds to ensure operation and maintenance costs of microprojects through existing resources or
beneficiary contributions. When this is not the case, cost recovery (or increases thereof) for basic
municipal services, would be a requirement for microproject approval.  The fiscal impact of
microprojects on municipal budgets would be carefully evaluated during the project. Microprojects also
would bring improvements in regularity, quality or coverage of municipal services and are expected to
decrease maintenance costs.
3. Technical Assessment
The experience of Beautiful Sofia and Beautiful Bulgaria suggests that both a desk and a field
appraisal of each microproject is necessary to ensure the technical feasibility of microprojects, including
conformity of infrastructure, equipment and other inputs in scale, quality and content with established
norms.  The capacity of municipalities to prepare the technical and financial information for
infrastructure repair or construction is mixed. Consequently, local private consulting firms have been
contracted to prepare drawings, bill of quantities, and activity schedules for civil works contracts, and
supervise contract execution. The same approach would be used by the PMU under the RIF. Many small
private contracting firms have experience with bid preparation and work execution, though technical
assistance and close site supervision is necessary. In the case of Beautiful Sofia and Beautiful Bulgaria,
laborers were required to attend several months of vocational training (such as in masonry, tiling, street
paving) in order to be eligible for hire. For the time being, this requirement has not been integrated into
the RIF-LIL because analysis of the costs and benefits of the training are not yet clear. In the event that
evidence supports training organized by the PMU, this strategy could be adapted.



Page 17
4. Institutional Assessment
Implementing Agency. The PMU has been fully staffed since August 1, 1998, with professionals
recruited competitively and selected by the MLSP and UNDP. All staff have a UNDP contract with an
initial trial period and regularly-scheduled performance reviews to enable staff changes if necessary. To
build the capacity of the PMU, technical assistance has been provided in accounting, MIS, financial
control and reporting, procurement, and microproject promotion, appraisal and supervision. Follow-up
visits would be timed to maintain the momentum. PMU staff have worked with technical advisors and
the UNDP to develop the Operations Manual, standard contracts and other documents. Office space,
furniture, computers and phones have been provided by the Government for PMU use. The Bank has
given no objection to the procurement of additional equipment, furniture and minor refurbishing of the
PMU office.
UNDP technical support for this project was first suggested by the Government through the MLSP.
This reflects the MLSP's positive working relationship with the UNDP in implementing past job creation
and professional training programs. UNDP involvement under the project continiues UNDP's support of
the Government's reform agenda. The "White Paper" for Social Security, formulated with UNDP
support, constituted the policy framework of the Government's Social Insurance Administration Project
supported by the World Bank. Assistance was also directed to build the actuarial capacity of the National
Social Security Institute and strengthen its Supervisory Board. The UNDP supports poverty monitoring,
development of the NGO sector in Bulgaria and employment creation, as specified in the UNDP 1997-99
Country Cooperation Framework.
UNDP has a mandate to create national capacity in managing social programs that target poor and
vulnerable groups. Their provision of support services to the PMU would contribute to the creation of
technical, managerial, and administrative knowledge and skills of national counterparts. As per UNDP
protocol, a Project Document was signed by the MLSP and the UNDP specifying the role of UNDP to
"assist the Government in recruitment, training and overseeing the PMU staff." An assessment of the
administrative and managerial capacity of the UNDP revealed understanding of UNDP staff (most of
whom are Bulgarian) with World Bank procurement, disbursement and reporting procedures. UNDP's
experience in hiring and training local professionals as employees and consultants to administer and
implement programs with central and local officials is also impressive.
At least initially, PMU staff are hired as UNDP consultants and therefore obtain authority to sign
contracts, order payments, and take other responsibilities from the UNDP. This legal arrangement was
suggested by the project preparation team so that the PMU could begin its activities promptly, thereby
allowing the Government sufficient time to consider legal status alternatives and regulations of the RIF.
It is expected that the Government will take measures to give legal status to the RIF by December 3 1,
1998, and use supplemental legal steps to adopt regulations later, based on the LIL experience.
Intermediaries.   The introduction  of democracy to Bulgaria has led to considerable
decentralization of administrative functions to municipalities. Mayors and Municipal Councils are
elected and they undertake their functions using  local taxes/fees and central subsidies.  The
implementation arrangements for Beautiful Sofia and Beautiful Bulgaria demonstrate procedures to
enable municipalities to act on behalf of their constituents to identify infrastructure for refurbishment,
prepare tender documents, evaluate bids and share costs, usually through provision of materials. The
experience reinforces several ideas which have been integrated into the RIF-LIL: (i) the Municipal
Council is a forum in which microprojects can be debated and endorsed; (ii) press coverage of council
meetings informs residents of decision making; (iii) in each municipality, a Technical Committee will act
as an inter-agency coordinating body to ensure microprojects are consistent with sector plans and norms;
(iv) technical assistance is needed to assist municipalities in preparation of microprojects and



Page 18
procurement of works; and (v) a funding agreement specifying the responsibilities and rights of the
municipality and the PMU is needed to empower intermediaries and hold them accountable.
5. Social Assessment
The project has incorporated the lessons from five social assessment research papers on vulnerable
groups and field studies at three locations to analyze the social impact of transition. A stakeholder
consultation during project preparation with social researchers, NGOs, trade unions, and government
representatives recommended that the initial stage of the RIF be targeted geographically at smaller towns
and villages, rather than big cities. Regions with high unemployment, acute poverty, and underdeveloped
infrastructure and which coincide with areas of high proportion of ethnic minorities, industrial
restructuring and impending layoffs were recommended. The social assessment identified deficiencies in
the institutional framework for micro-credit as an area where policy reform could lead to parallel growth
opportunities for the poor and vulnerable. The social assessment will continue to inforn the PMU's
recommendations on the RIF through follow up research financed by the project and consistent with the
monitoring and evaluation goals.
6. Environmental Assessment     Environmental Category        [JA       [X] B       [J C
It is expected that the execution of the microprojects would not cause any substantial
environmental impact and therefore the project would be classified in Category "B". For the purpose of
controlling and preventing any particular situation, the wastes of health centers, the wastewater of
sewerage systems, the irrigation water of agriculture infrastructure, and water distribution networks
would be treated and/or disposed of in an adequate manner. Some other microprojects, such as those
concerned with reforestation, erosion control and sanitation are expected to have a positive environmental
impact.  The formulation of infrastructure design and the selection of equipment for specific
microprojects would take into consideration elements to mitigate negative impacts (e.g. construction of
incinerators, crematory ovens, septic tanks, small treatment plants for water and wastewater, etc).
Garbage and materials used during construction would be buried in authorized and controlled places. A
guide for the formulation and evaluation of environmental aspects, with sections on diagnosis,
interpretation and prevention of situations, would form part of the Operations Manual. To safeguard the
environment, environmental criteria would be incorporated into microproject appraisal. Whenever a
microproject would have an identifiable negative impact, an appropriate mitigation plan would be
submitted to the Bank. Microprojects with serious negative impacts would be excluded from funding.
The environmental impact methodology and mitigation plans would be monitored during Bank
supervision.
7. Participatory Approach
Social science researchers from national academic institutions and non-profit organizations have
conducted the social assessment, participated in the stakeholder consultation, and would likely be
involved in impact evaluation. Local government officials and the two major national trade unions have
been consulted during preparation. Municipalities are expected to submit microproject proposals and
undertake responsibility for operation and maintenance of many microprojects. NGOs and other civil
society organizations may also submit microproject proposals and be involved in implementation. The
intermediary would also need to demonstrate its commitment by raising matching funds (cost-sharing) for
the microproject and by providing for operation and maintenance.
During implementation, the project provides for local consultations with users for prioritization of
needs and ratification of microproject selection. This would be formalized through a process of public
notification of possible alternative microprojects followed by a public meeting where the optimal



Page 19
alternative would be agreed upon by the municipal council or commtinity members in general. The
endorsement would be verified by the PMU representative during microproject appraisal.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The sustainability of benefits arising from microproject investmenlts is of key imiportanice to
meeting the project's development objectives, just as the lessons to be learned on sustainiability from the
implementation of the microprojects would be crucial in the design and regulationls of the RIF. On the
basis of implementation experience of social funds generally and those in Eastern Europe and the Former
Soviet Union in particular, the project design reflects several features to improve the likelihood of
microproject sustainability:
High quality construction works.  Poor quality work would undermine motivation from
municipalities and users/beneficiaries to share investment costs and pay user fees. The conniection
between quality of work and sustainability would be a subject of evaluatioll activities.
Responding to local demand. Several methods to verify demand would be tested by the PMU,
including:  (i) municipal council meetings during which alternative investments are debated and a
decision is arrived at; (ii) advertised local meetings for the endorsemenit of local proposals; and (iii) an
evaluation of the endorsements provided by local authorities (i.e.. muniicipal councils, local labor offices,
community groups, etc.), to be carried out by the PMU during microproject appraisal. In addition, cost
sharing would be requested as an indication of demand.
Institutional arrangements for sustainability. Each microproject proposal entertained by the
PMU would contain an operating and maintenance (O&M) plan, including institutional arrangemenits and
resource commitments for equipment, materials, human resources and other costs associated with O&M
of the microproject. If sustainability is dependent on municipal or state funds, -a written commitment
would be required prior to grant approval. Wherever feasible the municipality/facility would be expected
to levy service fees or user charges for the microproject. The wilin1gness to pay proposed user charges
would be assessed by the PMU during microproject appraisal.
Conformity with sector plans and norms. Sector standards and norms would be required for all
microprojects. Firms carrying out designs would be required to conform with standards and norms and
these would be confirmed by the PMU during microproject appraisal. Each infrastructure microproject
would pass through the Technical Committee of the municipality (or regional level when appropriate)
prior to final approval by the PMU. A Technical Committee, which exists in each municipality, would be
asked to endorse the microproject design to ensure conformity with sector plans and norms.
2. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                  Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Government has insufficient "learning" before  M   RIF legal status would be granted by end of 1998.
making recommendations on RIF design and           However, details on design, organization and
regulations.                                      regulations would be compiled after LIL lessons
emerge.
Interference in PMU's activities.          M       Public awareness campaign emphasizes autonomy
and transparency of the PMU. Steering Committee
with broad representation provides political support.



Page 20
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
Capacity of PMU to appraise and implement     M       Support services provided by UNDP. PMU staff
100 microprojects.                                   recruited with three-month trial period and regular
performance reviews. Under-performers can be
easily replaced. Flexible budget and procedures
enable the PMU to subcontract design preparations,
technical studies, and supervision to free up staff for
other tasks.
Failure to meet heightened expectations of    S       Strong emphasis on public information to heighten
laid-off workers undermines support for RIF           awareness of (i) RIF's limited scope and objectives
and reforms in general.                               and (ii) alternative support mechanisms for workers
affected by restructuring.
PMU is overwhelmed with many proposals        M       Prioritization of a few geographic regions based on
while it has limited financial and                    need and concentration of proposals. Proposals that
administrative capacity to respond to all good        cannot be financed under the project would be
proposals.                                            considered by other Government or donor programs.
Funds to cover taxes are not delivered in a   M       Cost-sharing by intermediaries could be applied to
timely manner.                                        cover taxes if necessary.
Coordination, supervision and reporting       M       Project Document, loan agreement, PAD and draft
arrangements between the PMU, UNDP,                   Funding Agreements have been discussed and
MLSP and internediaries becomes divisive or           agreed. Operations Manual stipulates respective
redundant, jeopardizing the implementation            supervisory and reporting roles of all entities. In
schedule and project ownership.                       event of conflict, arbitration structures are in place
(such as UNDP-Government Assistance Agreement,
Bulgarian Law).
Cost sharing is not available and delivered in  N     Strong emphasis in promotion campaign. Fewer
timely manner.                                        microprojects would be implemented if cost sharing
does not materialize.
Overall project risk rating                           M
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
An important strategic focus for this project is to support the Government's dealing with major
industrial restructuring, most notably where it affects particular regions-such as mining and chemical
industrial regions-more acutely. The challenge here is to provide technical and financial support for a
range of interventions which will both cushion the impact of restructuring on workers, many of whom are
vocal and well organized, thereby supporting their integration into other productive activities and
allowing reforms to take hold. Thus, the political process and need for constituency building present
large challenges to policy makers.
G: Main Loan Conditions
(a) Microprojects are carried out under Funding Agreements in accordance with the Operations
Manual.
(b) The Steering Committee is maintained until completion of the Project with composition and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
(c) The PMU is maintained until completion of the Project with responsibility to implement the
Project.



Page 21
(d) The Government prepares and furnishes to the Bank for its review by November 30, 1999, a
proposal for the operation and regulations of the RIF and based on said review enacts no later
than December 31, 1999, the necessary instrument for the operation of the RIF.
(e) A midterm review is prepared by August 31, 1999, and an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) six months prior to the Closing Date.
H: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Leade    ry Beth Schmidt
Program Team Leader: John n
Sector Leader: Michal     
Sector Director: Chri L
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink



Page 22
Annex I
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Flulnd (LIL)
Key Performance Indicators
Narrative                  Key Performance                 Mionitoring ani(               Critical Assuti)tions
Summary                        Indicators                     Supervision                    and Risks
CAS Objective
*    IProtect the poor and                                     *    ReNion  ot statistics     *    I'mer-t\ reduction and
vulnterable duling                                             I 1o\erlL\ AsSCssilIClet      social sa lcL\ niet
economic transition                                                                          lcnlinniilis a kle\ obijecti%e
ol 6(MO\Cl'rnlelt
Project Development
Objective
*    Improve standards of    *   70%  of microproject          *    MIS                      .    Economiie stabilit\ is
living amonig poor and        resources devoted to        *   National limploniment          prIeselrved w01ith modlest
ulnemployed groups             munLicipalities with            Services data econlomilic glro\tla
during transition             unemployment rate
higher thian average                                     *    i conliolnic oroht
reSUItS ill job cretioIn
*    %  ol' microproiect
resources devoted to                                     *    11conI 1iomo  labor
mulllicipalities with                                         genCelnlated (throluighl
lower thani average level                                     mlliCroprojects is spent
of social and economiiic                                      On mcetinag houscilold
development                                                    basic nceds
Project Outputs
*    'I'emporar) employment *   280,000 of person days   *    MIS                            *    long terim unemployed
and associated increase        of employment              *   Beneficiarry Asscssment        sec tiheir sklillls quickl!
in eariniigs and skills       generated                   *   Impact Assessmeilt             deterioraite il'not -iven
mainitenianice                                                (IEval ation of'               employment
*   Average wage in                  nicrpolpreicts anti-          opportunities
microprojects as %  of          poverty imnpact)
national average pvage     *   National Employment   *    'oor anid vulierable aire
Services dlata                hii ed locil I b\
*   20% of laborers h ired      *   Net imnpact evaluation         colntr'ilctol's
from lists of long-terimi       ol'Al-MPls
(>6 mos.) uLnemiiployed
*    Poor aId Vi1.a InIrllaCb Ici ar
*    Imprpoved qLiality and    *   75%  level of satisl'aetion                                    able to compete hri-
availability of basic         among the beneficiaries                                        ne" lI created jobs
social and economic           for assets created or
services in localities        rehabilitated by                                          *    I'M  I hals efIecti\e
receiving microprojects       microprqjects                                                  tar.etine Sttrateuies and
tools
*    Enhanced prospects for  *   5 bidders per tender on
employmient throughi           average                                                  *   'I'Thee is local initiati\e
dlevelopinig skills                                                                          to capitalize on
amonig private firms     .    Iiereasinig
and public institutions       responsiveness of bids to                                 *    I'ublic and private
to plan and execute           aniloluliced tenders over                                      I'CSOliu'CCS al'C i\ alikible
microprojects                 time                                                           to finatance R IF acti\ ities
ill post-I.ll. StaelX.
*    100%  intermiiediaries
participate in bid                                       *   (J0-el-rilileilt redilrcts
evaluationi                                                   Al NIVP resources to
those prograllis %ilth tele
largest n1et imanpact



Page 23
Narrative         |      Key Performance               Monitoring and               Critical Assumptions
Summary                     Indic&tors                   Supervision                  and Risks
Creation of RIF as a    *   Cost per person-day of                                    13eeflits ol'AL.4l1s to
new. innovative and         employment created                                        thi loe  are su liecintlx
cost-el rective                                                                        lruc
mechianism Ior social    *   45% average labor
protectioni that            content for microprojects
capitalizes on local
initiative             *   % of microproJect %\age
payments going to
unskilled laborers
*   250 initial microproiect
proposals submitted
*   80% of initial
microproject proposals
submitted with cost
sharing greater thiani 1O%
*   10% lower cost per job
More cost-effective and         placement than achieved
better targeted active labor     undcr current design of
programs                         AL.MPs (following net
impact study and re-
design of programs)
*   65% of participants in
ALMPs are thosc who
have thic highest
likelihood of bencfitinlg
from them (following niet
impact study and re-
design of programs)
Project Components
1   Microprojects:          *   US$4.7 millioni          *   MIS                      *   Governmentfs interest
*   Implementation of                                    *   Banlk Supervisioll           in micropiojects and
about 100              *   10 microprojects          *   Disbursemileiit records      dcveloping community
microprojects in            specifically create      *   Audits                       participation reClmialills
accordanice vithi           cmployment                                                strong
Operationis Manual          opportunities for women
*   Cost sharim± a1v"erages
*   10 microprolects                                          2O'/0%
specilically creatc
employment                                           *    'imiley payments to
opporlulnities for                                        contractols and
disadvantaged cthilic                                    supplicrs
minorities
*   Contractors are
*   80% of microprojects                                      available locallh to
completed on schedule                                    uLidertake works
and within budget
*   Resources to co\ er
*   US$45,000 is average                                      V Al are pro\itdedi 1 y
cost of microproiccts                                     Ml.SI in tinleh IlIshion



Page 24
Narrative              Key Performance              Monitoring and             Critical Assumptions
Summary                   Indicators                 Supervision                 and Risks
IL. Labor Market Analysis:  *   US$0}.4 million                                  *   Prices remaini siead%
*   Labor rorce surveys                                                              (kn illatioji
*   Labor torce surveys
condticted in November
1998 and March 1999
*   Evaluation of ALMPs
*   F:indings of evaluationi of'
ALMP available vithin
18 months of pro'ect
eftctctiveness
*    nivestigation of
impedimncits to       *   Report on microcredit
microcredit               available by September
30, 1999
111. Irqject Managemenit:   *   US$1.1 miilion
* Supervision of'
microproiects and     *   Evaluations. tinanicial
development of RIl by     reports and audits are
I'MU                      delivered on time
*   PMU makes
recommlenldationis to the
Steering Committee on
RIF design and
regulations by
September 30, 1999
*   Governlmenit submits RIF
plan to the World Bank
by November 30, 1999
*   Agreement reached
betveen the World Bank
and Government on plan
by December 31, 1999



Page 25
Annex 2
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Detailed Project Description1
Project Component I: Microprojects - US$4.7 million (IBRD US$3.8 million)
This component would finance grants for implementation of about 100 microprojects, costing
between US$10,000 and US$200,000, at an average cost of US$45,000, targeted to the poor and
vulnerable. The majority of microprojects would be civil works to rehabilitate and expand essential
municipal services using local contractors, suppliers and laborers. Such works include improvements in
water supply, sanitation, solid waste management; rehabilitation of local health centers, primary schools,
and feeder roads. (Specific types of works to be financed under the project, and to be avoided, are given
in Attachment A to this annex). The classifications, based on estimates of labor content, are not rigid.
They are intended as guidelines for intermediaries and the PMU, and would be modified according to
experience. Emphasis would be placed on financing microprojects that provide a high percentage of
labor content, promote community participation in microproject identification and implementation,
incorporate cost sharing by municipalities and users, contribute to the physical and human stock of the
local economy and have sufficient user fees to cover operation and maintenance.
Productive microprojects that aim to benefit both the public as well as individuals and households
would also be considered for financing in the form of grants. Examples of productive microprojects
include irrigation works, agro-processing activities, collective industries, handicrafts, soil recovery,
renewable forestry production, post-production activities such as harvesting and export promotion, and
family tourism. The PMU would experiment by providing non-financial business services such as
training, technology transfer, marketing assistance, business advice, mentoring and information through
existing, qualified service providers. Productive microprojects would require a minimum percentage of
microproject cost-sharing by beneficiaries plus labor to complement the grant. A capable intermediary
with appropriate legal status would be a prerequisite for financing.
A minimum of 20 microprojects would be targeted specifically to create labor market demand for
women and disadvantaged ethnic minority groups. In such cases, cost sharing requirements may be
decreased.
Microprojects would be proposed and implemented by "Intermediaries", that is municipalities,
NGOs, cooperatives and other civil society organizations with the legal status that would enable them to
sign contracts, open a bank account, spend public money and have authority over the microproject
facility/infrastructure. Duties and rights of Intermediaries are listed in the Operations Manual. Their
responsibilities specific to each microproject would be stipulated in a Funding Agreement signed by the
PMU and the Intermediary.
Detailed procedures are described in the Operations Manual to promote, appraise, prioritize,
approve, implement, supervise and evaluate microprojects. The Operations Manual has been approved
by the Steering Committee and is acceptable to the Bank.
.Costs are exclusive of DEM 90,000 (US$50,000 equivalent) for Front-end Fee.



Page 26
Geographic Targeting and Allocation of Resources
The social costs of Bulgaria's economic and institutional transition have been widely felt across
social, economic and ethnic groups, as well as across geographic areas. RIF-LIL fuids are severely
limited in comparison to the likely demand; as suchi, in order to be able to miiiimize operating costs.
facilitate close monitoring and iterative learning, and better evaluate the impact ofimicroprojects. some of
Bulgaria's 28 geographic districts that have high rates of unemiiployed and poor. and higih concenitrationis
of microproject proposals, would be prioritized during the LIL stage. While proposals from all districts
would be accepted and processed by the PMU, microprojects that are not likely to be finanlced by the Li .
would be considered by the PMU as additional resources become available or referred to other programs.
Preparation, Appraisal and Approval
Intermediaries would be encouraged durinig a country-wide promotion campaigil to identitf
microprojects and submit a Preliminary Application Form (PAF) to the PMU. The PMU would screeni
PAFs against exclusive criteria. Those that pass exclusive criteria wolid be ranked by "iieed" by using
prioritization criteria (see attachment B of this aniex). The PMU would make a field visit to about i20 ol'
the microprojects with the highest need scores.  After an assessment of the social, institutionial.
environmental, economic, financial and techinical feasibility of the microprojects, the PMU would
authorize Intermediaries to contract a consultant to prepare the drawings, bill of quantities. activities
schedule, technical studies or other prerequisites for approval. These costs would be calculated in the
total cost of the microproject.
Upon receipt of the requisite preparation documenits, the PMU and/or its techinical consultanits may
conduct a second field visit to complete the assessments. The microprojects would be scored again
taking into account firm estimates of microproject cost and labor contenit that would be available after
preparation and appraisal. Microprojects recommenided for approval would first be considered by the
Teciihnical Board of the PMU. Microprojects approved by the PMU and estimated to cost US$40,000 and
above, and the first ten microprojects irrespective of cost, would require approval by the Steering
Comimlittee prior to implementation.
Procurement and Implementation
A Funding Agreement between the Intermediary and the PMU would be signed following approval
of the microproject, describing the duties and liabilities of all parties, techinical specifications, budget,
procuremiienit method and contracting procedures. The Interimiediary would procure goods, services and
works for microprojects in compliance with the Operations Manial, with guidance and oversight by the
PMU. The Operations Manual would detail the steps to be followed and coordinationi arrangements to
ensure Intermediaries caii participate in procurement while mainitain1ilng compliance with World Bank
procuremenit guidelines (Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. Janiary 1995,
revised January and August 1996 and September 1997.) The Interimiediary would enter into a contract
with the winninig bidder/supplier, using a standard contract provided by the PMU. Payment to the
contractor/supplier/conisultinlg service would be in parallel with progress achieved and only after the
Intermediary and PMU verifies the work, services and goods are satisfactory.
In order for the PMU to meet its targets for number of microprojects in the pipeline and uphold
effective procurement, a unit cost system would be used with a schedule of standard prices for the
completion of various types of microprojects.  The MIS, estimated to be fully operational by
December31, 1998, would also be key to the PMU's success in controlling the geographically diverse
microprojects.



Page 27
Completion and Hand-over
Upon completion of the microproject, a completion and hanid-over meetin-g would be lheld for
each microproject to determine whetlher the microproject is complete in accordance with the terms of the
Funding Agreement and works contract.
Project Component 11: Labor Market Analysis - US$0.4 million (IBRD US$0.4 million)
The Bulgarian labor force survey (LFS) was recently suspended due to a lack of filancial resources.
This implies that the essential infornmation on employmilenit and unemployment is no longer available. In
order to restore the information base for labor market policies, the project would finanice two waves of the
LFS: in November 1998 and March 1999. Specifically, the LFS NNould help to identify the grOlpS that
are the most disadvantaged at the labor market, and thus lead to a better targeting of labor market
interventions. The LFS would be carried out by the National Statistical InstituIte (NSI). wNhichi %%as
responsible for the LFS until it was suspenlded. AII estimated cost otfone surve\ is LJS$45,000. coverin.0
printing costs, enumerators' remuneration, per diem and transpoitationi costs. Results of the 1.FS woLIld
be available in a preliminiary form withinl three monitils of the Survey.
While the Government is runniniig a wide meniuL of ALMPs. little is knowvn about their targeting. cost-
effectiveness and impact. A net impact evaluation of these programs woUld address this issue, and be the
basis for the revisions of labor policies whichi would iilprove employmilenlt prospects of the unlemiiployec.
The evaluation would provide information on the gain in re-employiment chanices of the unlemilployed who
participated in a given labor market program  relative to the unlemilployed with siililar observable
chiaracteristics (age, gender, education, length of unemploymenit) who did not participate. Furthermore,
the study would help determine whicih interventionis are most effective for different sub-groups of the
uLnemployed and guide the Governmeit in reallocation of resour-ces towards programils that have the
greatest impact (or are the most-cost effective), and to redesign programs with little impact. The net
impact evaluation would be carried out jointly by the MLSP and the NES with interilationial and local
techinical assistance and researchers at an estimated cost of US$250,000. Preliminiiary results of the study
would be available withinl 18 months of project effectiveness. This componenit would also finanice
tecihinical assistance to advise the Governmeit about legal and adminiistrative chaniges to facilitate delively
of microcredit by non-bank institutions.
Project Component 111: Project Management - US$1.1 million (IBRD US$ 0.7 million)
This componenlt would include PMU staff salaries, equipimienit, vehicles, operating costs, traiiinin,
and techinical assistance to support the PMU to (i) supervise, evaluate and learn from the implemilenitatioll
of microprojects so as to make specific recommenidationis to the Govermiienit about the RIF and prepare
its design and regulations; and (ii) based on the Governmenit's endorsemenit of the plan, undertake on
b. 'alf of the Government the preparatory work to ensure the RIF is funictionial by the end of the LIL. The
preparatory work would include: (i) secure office space and equipmenit, (ii) prepare regulationis (i.e.
modify the RIF-LIL  Operations Manual accordingly) for implementationi of RIF microprojects;
(iii) prepare a Fiianice and Administration Manual (modify the RIF-LIL Fiianice Manual) to guide staff
of the RIF; (iv) upgrade the accounting system  and MIS as needed to meet the needs of the RIF;
(v) facilitate recruitment and training of RIF staff: and (vi) ensure the RIF has legal grounds to operate
efficiently.



Page 28
The PMU would be supported in implementation of this componienit by the Principal Advisor who
would provide technical and managerial guidance and support; experienced UNDP staff on an as-needed
basis to ensure procurement, accounting, and disbursement procedures are followed, traininig worksilops
in procurement, disbursement and other skills as needed; and shor-t-terimi techinical assistance for
development of the MIS, installation of an accountinig system. appraisal and supervisioni ofmiclroprojects.
and impact evaluations.



Page 29
Attachment A: RIF Microproject Typology2
Micreproject Type
Renovation or construction of tile following elements:
I   W'ater %%ells
V   Intakes
RIF Will Finance        V   Networks
I Small lPuimiping- Stations
W .ter Systems                                 I   Simple %%ater l)isinlifcting S%stems
WVater Systems                                             Wac'Ink
I WaterTlanks
I   Reconnection of houschold connections
Ne%% hotise connections
RIF Will Not Finance                AC I'ipes
Steel P'ipes
Renovation or constnictiin oflthe tollo  ing elemients:
V   Sanitars Sex%age Maini Branches
V   Sanitar% Se%agye Lateral Branches
I   Sanitary Small Pumping Stationis
   Sanitar Small WaterTIreatment Facilities
.   Sanitar% Manholes
RIF Will Finance
R   Recoinection of'existinig housing connections
Sewer Systems                                          I   Storm Sewage Main B3ranclies
V   Stonm Sewage lateral Branches
I   Stonr  Small Puumping Stations
I Special facilities ISpillNaNs)
RIF Will Not Finance                I lousin'g coinectiolis
Major Water 'I'reatmeiit plants
Renov'ation or new constructioni ot'the following elements:
I   Drainage Channels
V   Drainage culverts
RIF Will Finance        V   Earthworks
R   Concrete % ork (retaining vNalls)
Roads                                             I   Small Bridges
.   Surfacing
RIF Will Not Finance                News constiction of lirst. second and third grade roads
Renovation or construction of' the fbIlowing elements
I   Telephone line networks
RIF Will Finance        V   Excavation ot'channels
I Shafts
Communications                                         I   Distribution Stations
Automatic telephone exchanges
RIF Will Not Finance                Cellular telephone installations
Household connections
Renovation or construction of the following elements:
V   Low voltage networks onlk
V   Shafts
V   Trenches for cable lines
RIF Will Finance        I   Restoring of pavement after trenching
I Air cable installation
Z Estimates of labor content are the primary determinants of category of eligibility.



Page 30
Microproject Type
Electricity                                         /   Posts
V   Cassettes
RIF Will Not Finance                Transtbriners
Cahie for high and low xoltage networks
Renovation or construction of the following elements:
V   Classrooms
/   Adminiistraltion
/   Bathrooms
V   Playgrounids
V L andscapinlg
RIF Will Finance        V   Ventilations anid heatin
Primary and Secondary                                     V   Giylatioiisaiumts
Schools
V   Water anid scesage systems internall%
V/  I'pils' desks
V   'I'eacliers' desks
/   13asic equipmiienit Ibr gy mnasiums
Special eqUipmlenlt
RIF Will Not Finance                13ooks
Water and sewage coniniectionis to the service network
Private schools
Renovationi or iew coistrLctioll of the following elemeints:
V   Classrooms
/   Bathroomiis
RIF Will Finance        /   Play grouiids
V   Landscaping
/ Ventilationi and heating
Kindergartens                                             Water and sewage systemns intemally
V   Beds. tables and chiairs
Tovs
RIF Will Not Finance                Books
1 ood
Kitclieni eqtuipimient
Private Kiindergartein
Water and sewage connections to the service network
Building renovationl of tlIe fbllowing elements:
V   Reading rooms
/   Storage rooms
RIF Will Finance        V   Roof's
P   Ventilationi and hieating
Public l.ibraries                                      V   Water and sewage systems intemally
Books
RIF Will Not Finance                Air Coonditioninig Systems
Equipment
Water and sewage connections to the service network
Building renovation or completion of the following elements:
/   General building
V   Internal plumbing and sewage
Buildings of considerable         RIF Will Finance              Heatiig
cultural value                                        /   Ventilation
RIF Will Not Finance                Restoration of historic/cultural artifacts
Equipment



Page 31
Microproject Type
Renovation of the lollowini- clemeints:
RIF Will Finance          /   General building
'  Initernal plumbing aniJd sewage
l ieating
Dispensaries                                             /   Ventilation
RIF Will Not Finance                 FIquipmlelt
Reno% ation ov the folloxing clemeints:
/   General building
I   Intenail plumbimng anl(d se age
RIlF Will l:inance             I llcatillg
Old Age llouses                                           I   Ventilation
RIF Will Not Finance                  1qluipment
Reno\ ation of thlc ib low ing lciimieits:
V   (icneral building
V   Intenmal plumbin,g anild sCeagC
RIF Will Finance            I I leatilng
Orphanages                                              I   Ventilationi
RIF Will Not Finance                  'qIllipment
Renovation anid construictioni of the tiMlowi,ig clemilts:
V   Secondar% chalnLels
"   Field drainage pipe lines. sprinlikers and rinl guns
RIF Will Finance          V   IUlillpillg staltilis
Irrigation systems                                         V   Special i:icilitics
RIF Will Not Finance                 IPrimar\ chalniels
D)ams
Renovationi and conistrtictioni of the follovinig cleimits:
/   Reforestation
V   Land slides protectioni
RIF Will Finance           '  Slope protectionl along roads
Land Erosion Control                                              L Land recovery
RIF Will Not Finance                  large scale projccts
Renov-ation and constrctioll of the following:
RIF Will Finance          V   Markets
O   Infrastructure for traininig lacilities
Others
RIF Will Not Finance                  Equipment
Mainttenanice



Page 32
Attachment B: Exclusive and Prioritization Criteria for Microprojects
Exclusive Criteria                              Yes                         No
Community Cost Sharing =>10%3
Unskilled Labor Content =>30%
Microproject within RIF typology
Microproject cost USSI0,000-200,000
Property/facility is publicly owned (or cooperative)
Prioritization Criteria                          Value                  Weight x Value
Intermediary/User Cost Sharing %                                                            .15 x
<=l 5%                                                    2
<=20%                                                     4
<=25%                                                     6
<=30%                                                     8
>30%                                                      10
score
Cost per Benericiary US$4                                                                   .15 x
<=US$50                                                   10
<=US$100                                                  8
<=US$150                                                  6
<=US$200                                                  4
>US$200                                                   2
score
Unemployment Rate % (municipal level)                                                       .15 x
>=5%                                                      2
>=10%                                                     4
>=15%                                                     6
>=20%                                                     8
>=25%                                                     to
score
Unskilled Labor Content %5                                                                  .30 x
>=20%                                               -     2_
>=25%                                                     4
>=30%                                                   -6
>=35%    -8
>=40%                                                     1 0
score        .
Infrastuur Need'                                                                            .25 x
<=30                                                      2
<=50                                                      4
<=70                                                      6
<=90                                                      8
>90                                                       10
score
Total SIore                                         l .
3Cost sharing requirements may be lower for microprojects aimed at labor demand for women and minority groups.
4Cost per beneficiary will be used to compare microprojects of a similar t.ypology; not across the typology.
sUriskilled labor content is estimated as labor costs (inclusive of social security) for all non-supervisory and artisan labor as
a per-cent of total microproject costs.
hThese scores will coincide with scores provided by the Ministry of Regional Development and Urbanization which is based
on social and economic indicators for the municipal population.



Page 33
Annex 3
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                              Local          Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million-----------
1.           Microprojects                                     4.6             0.1          4.7
11.          Labor Market Analysis                             0.1             0.3          0.4
111.         Project Management                                0.6             0.5          1.17
IV.          Front-end Fee                                     0.0            0.1           0.1
Total Project Cost                                              5.3             1.0          6.3
Numbers may not add due to rounding.
Note: Total project costs are based on April 1998 prices, and estimated costs are based on the US dollar.
Physical contingencies were estimated at 7 percent of total baseline cost. Price contingencies used tile
inflation rate of 1.9 percent to adjust costs during project implementation. No price contingencies have
been applied to the microproject component. Any increase in the average microproject cost would be
reflected in a reduced number of microprojects financed.
7 US$50,000 rounded to US$0.1million



Page 34
Annex 4
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(in US$ million - base year 1998)
Implementation Period
1998      1999       2000
Project Costs
Investment Costs                  0.3        4.1       0.9
Recurrent Costs                   0.1        0.5       0.3
Total*                         0.4        4.6        1.2
(including contingencies)
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs, inclusive front-end
fee)
IBRD                              3%        60%        16%
UNDP                              2%         4%        0%
Government of Bulgaria            2%         2%        1%
Intermediaries                    0%         7%        3%
Total                          7%        73%        20%
* exclusive of 1% Front-end Fee
numbers may not add due to rounding



Page 35
Annex 5
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
I. Procurement
Procurement activities would fall under one of the following areas: (i) small works, (ii) goods:
(iii) consultant's services; and (iv) operating costs. Procuremenit arrangemiienits have been desigined to
(i) increase microproject sustainability through involvement of muniicipalities and other interimiediaries in
implementation and maintenance of microprojects; and (ii) be in compliance with the "Guideliines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit" (January 1995, revised January, August 1996 and
September 1997). Consulting services to be financed from the loan proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the "Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultanits by World Bank Borrowers",
January 1997, revised September 1997. In order to achieve the project objectives, competitive bidding
procedures will be described in the Operations Manual whichi is subject to the Bank's approval prior to
Board presentation.
The PMU would review and oversee all procurement activities uinder the project, includinlg
procurement for microprojects undertaken by Intermediaries.   Procul-emenit responsibilities for
microprojects would be stipulated in the Funding Agreement between the PMU and the Intermediary,
which would be a municipality, NGO or other civil society organization with appropriate legal status.
Whenever necessary, training would be provided to Intermediaries to undertake procurement. Trainig
of PMU staff in World Bank procurement procedures was held in August 1998. A project launcl
workshop is scheduled for November.
Specific Procurement Arrangements:
Civil Works. Civil works consists of modest rehabilitation and upgrading of facilities (very small
contracts) up to an aggregate amount of US$4.1 million, exclusive of taxes (of which IBRD is US$3.3
million equivalent), and spread over 24 months. The MLSP would provide financial resources in a local
account to cover local taxes in civil works and goods contracts. Due to: (i) the small contract values
(US$10,000 to US$200,000); (ii) works that are geographically scattered and spread over time due in part
by climatic conditions; and (iii) labor intensive techniques, procurement of small scale civil works would
be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at
least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The PMU would advertise to
solicit expressions of interest from contractors and maintain a registrar of qualified firms. The registrar
would be updated every three months and new contractors would be added. Contractors and firms would
be required to have experience in similar works in the last two years. The PMU would use sample
bidding documents developed in the ECA Region. The invitation shall include a detailed description of
the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, and relevant drawings where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Contracts above US$100,000, and not exceeding US$200,000, would be awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and for this purpose, the PMU would use the Bank's sample
bidding document dated September 1995. The aggregate ceiling for small works (Table BI) would be
reviewed during the mid-term  review.  Considering the small value of the works, International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) is not likely.



Page 36
Goods. Procurement for goods would total US$0.3 million (of which IBRD is US$0.3 milion
equivalent), including: US$0.2 million for computers, office equipment, furnituire, supplies and vehicles
for the PMU and US$0.1 million for microprojects. Goods costing US$50,000 and less would be
procured through National Shopping (NS) and International Shopping (IS) for goods costing US$ 100,000
or less. The estimated value of goods packages is not likely to exceed US$100,000. National Shoppinlg
would be based on a minimum three quotations, International Shopping on a minimiiumii three quotationis
from at least two countries. There would be no ICB contracts.
Consultant Services.  Local and international consultanit services would be procured for
microproject promotion (development of press kit, organization of press conferenlces), preparation
(technical drawings, bill of quantities, activity schedules, business plans. techinical and feasibility studies).
supervision and evaluation; training and technical assistance to interimiediaries, contractors and PMU
staff; audits; and impact evaluations. The PMU will use the Bank standard contract for all consultanit
services contracts. The following procurement procedures will be used:
i. Quality Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for contracting firms for the
ALMPs, and microproject promotion, preparation, supervisionl and trahiling; with an estimated
value of US$0.7 million (of which IBRD is US$0.7 million).
ii. Selection under a Least Cost Selection procedures would be used for contractilng a local firm
for the audits, total estimated value of US$0.1 million (of which IBRD is US$0.1 million).
iii. Selection based on Single Source would be used for the NSI to undertake two labor force
surveys, estimated total value of US$0.1 million (of whiclh IBRD is US$0.1 million). This
procurement method is justified by the small size of the assignment (about US$45,000 for each
survey), and by the fact that the NSI is the most specialized and qualified organization to carry
out the work. The estimated cost is exclusive of NSI staff salaries. Enumerators would be
hired as service delivery contractors in accordance with the Operations Manual.
iv. Individual Consultants would be used for assignments requiring specialized expertise for
providing technical assistance to the PMU staff, including the Principal Advisor (20 person-
months estimated at US$130,000), the MIS (one person month), local researchers conducting
social and economic impact studies (15 person months), and for project-specific expertise for
topics related to microprojects. The total value of these contracts is estimated at US$0.4
million of which IBRD is US$0.2 million equivalent.
Operating Costs.  PMU  staff salaries, microproject related travel and subsistence, vehicles
insurance, office maintenance, utilities, fuel for office heating, communication, office supplies, postage,
bank charges, UNDP service fee, and minor renovation of the PMU office space, would total US$0.6
million, of which IBRD is US$0.3 million. The UNDP service fee, totaling US$160,000, would be
financed by the Government. The Government would also provide office space and utilities estimated at
US$140,000 equivalent.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Works:
* Tender package including bidding documents, bid evaluation report and contract for first two
Small Works and NCB contracts.



Page 37
Goods:
* All goods contracts above US$50,000.
Consulting Services:
*  The Bank will review Terms of Reference (TOR). Letters of Interest ([.01). Evaluation Repoorts
and Contracts for all consultinig firm contracts in amount greater thani US$50.000.
*  The Bank will review TOR and Contracts for individual contracts above US$25.000: fo;r those
below US$25,000. TOR of the first three contracts will be reviec%ed.
11. Disbursement
A//octtiofl of ?f loan I)oceeds (Talble D)
Microprojects (works, goods and services)
Goods (vehicles. furiniture, equipimienit for P MIJ)
Consultinlg Services (national and interinational techinical assistancc)
Operating Costs
Front-enid Fee
UJnallocated
Retroactive financinig to the UNDP. estimated at US$400.000. is expected for PMlU operatinig costs.
techinical assistance, trainiig, and goods purcliased for the PMlJ on or after April 1. 1998. in advance of
signing of the Loan Agreement.
lse of siWLle'flWes of exxpenses:
Individual consultants < US$25.000
Coonsultinig Firmis < US$50,000
Goods < US$50,000
Works < US$150,000 (except first two Small Works and NCB contracts)
Special Account: To expedite disbursements, the Govermilent would authorize the UNDP to open a
special accounit on its behalf in Deutsche Mark in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, to receive
exclusively the Bank's share of the project finaniciig, with an autilorized allocation of US$ 500,000
equivaleit, which the UNDP (throughi the Governmeit) could request tiponI effectivenless. Replenlisihimlenlt
applications woould be prepared and submitted by the PMU (throughi the UNDP) according to thc
project's financiig iieeds. The funids shall be used to pay contractors, suppliers, constiltanits and othier
expenditures in Leva. A separate withdrawal application claiminig reimbursement for payments made for
eligible expenditures before the loan agreement was signed would be submitted by the UNDP through the
Governiiienit promliptly uponI loan effectiveness (retroactive finalicing provision).
A separate Leva account would receive deposits from the MLSP's account in the Central Bank to
cover taxes.



Page 38
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalenit)
Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method                       Total Cost
(including
colntinigencies)
ICB         NCB          Other         N.B.F
1. Microprojects                                  0.8           3.9          (.9              4.7
(0.8)        (3.0)                         (3.8)
Civil Works                                   0.8           3.3
(0.8         (2. 5)
Goods                                                       0.1
(0.1)
Services                                                    0.5
(0.4)
2. Goods                                                        0.2                           0.2
(0.2)                         (0.2)
For Project Management
3. Services                                                     (.8          0.1              0.8
(0.7)                         (0.7)
T'echn ical Assistance                                     (0.3
(0.2)
ALMPs                                                       0.3
(0.3)
Labor Force Surveys                                         0. 1
(0. I)
Audits                                                      0.1
4. Recurrent Costs                                              0.6           0.3             0.6
(0.3)                         (0.3)
Total                                            (0.8)         (4.2)          1.3             6.3
Inclusire of t SS51lH) IWU-CflcJ 1 '
ass.i,,?es unallocated amounltitojtoT    goI to wertIt'Ii nucroprojects
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-finianiced.
Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by I BRD.
Other for Microprojects includes civil works throughi small works, goods throuLgil National
Shoppinig, and services throughi QCBS and individual consultanits. Other for Goods includes
Interinationial Shopping and National Shoppiig.
Other for Services includes QCBS, LCS. Sole Source and IC.
Other for Recurrent Costs are PMU salaries. UNDP Service Fee (US$160,000) and operating
costs.
Services for Microprojects includes preparation, supervision and evaluation of mi icroprojects and
training to intermnediaries including: US$0.4 procured throughi QCBS and US$0.I throughi IC.



Page 39
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table BI: Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1: Procurement Review
(ioods and                    ICB           NCB              IS            NS              Small            Other      Percentaue of
Civil Works                                                                                Works          Methods    lon amniount
0.8           0.1             0.2              3                         subject to
prior rec ie\
Procurement thresholds:
individuals and                          <USS200000   <LUS$100.000    <lSS5.0t0 (USS  0 ttl.t
aggregate
P rior review                            Bidding docs.  all contracts                   Bidding docs.                       12"o
bid e al..                                    bid eval..
contract Ibr                                contract for First
First 2                                     2 contracts
contracts
C onsulltants                QCBS            Q13S          Fixed           I CS         (onstiltant        Single      Indi iduals
Budget                       Qualifications      Source
0.7                                         (11                                              0t.4
Procurement imiethod
threslholds
Prior Reviewv             All contracts                                I'OR. 1)1.                       TOR. D)raft    >1 S$25.oo(o
'IOR. 1,. Ol                                 I\al. Rpt.                         Contract       1TO.
I.val. Rpt.                                   Contract                                        Contract
Contract                                                                                    <1 IS$25.00 0l
TOR ol first 3
I:X-post Review          Explain brieil) the ex-post review  mechanism: In-depth review during Bank supervision to enstire 701°1, oi totai loan
value is covered, P rocurement Review integrated with f inancial audit.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
13rief statement
UND)P has nuimerous y ears experience of competitive procurement of civil "orks. goods and consulting services in Ittilgar-ii.
UNDP will review and provide oversight of procurement b\ PMI ll rocuieilieint Specialist.
Many municipalities who will be intermediaries lor manv civil works contracts, have experience with comilpetitive procuremeint for civil works.
( ounin; 1'rocuiremieiit Assessment Report lhas not been prepared for 13ulgaria       Are the bidding documenits Ibr the procLireiiieiit
( ollitrv 1 rocuitieinett Strategy, I aper is Lliider preparation                     actionis for the first vear readv by1 iegotiatiolIS
Yes   O3    No X
Section 3: Tratning, Information and Development on Procurement
i'stinated date of       Estimated date of           Indicate if there is       D)omestic lPreierence for     Domestic lPrefereince for
Piro ject Launch         publication of General      procurement subJect to     (ioods                        Works, if applicaible
Workshop                 Procuremiient Notice        mandatory SPN in
Development Business       Yes   0       No   X         Yes   0        No   X
Nov mber 199X                  Not Applicable        Yes   X       No
Retroacti e I inanciig                                                                                        Advance procurement
Yes X      No  3   Explain: For salaries, training, and operating costs ofl MU procured in accordance with 113RD  Yes X     No 0
procedures prior to proiect effectiveness.                                                                           Explain:
Explain briefly the P'rocurcment Monitoring System: PMU. with oversight by LJNDI. would oversee all procurement activities under the
project. Municipalities and other intermediaries would be involved with procurement for microprojects. IPMU would procure goods and services
lfor program management. National Employ ment Services and Ministry of Labor and Social Policy have prepared TIOR for ALMP and l.MS. and
IPMll vould ensure procurement is done in accordance with World Bank procedures.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: All proctirement to be done in accordance with 113RI)
guidelines.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name:              Ronald Venezia                                  Ext:    85196
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: To Be Determined



Page 40
Table C: Procurement Plan
Packages                    Total cost  Procurement       Issuance     Submlission      Signing of    Completion
tlSS       Method        Invit. to Bid    of Bids        Contract      of ('ontract
1. Equipment, Vehicles Supplies              0.2
Multiple Packages - approximately 4(1998)   01         NS              Nov.98         Dcc. 98        Jan. 99         Feb. 99
Multiple Packages-approximately 2(1999)     0.1         NS. IS         Mar. 99        Apr.99          May 99          Jul99
IL. Microprojects                            4.7
Multipic Contracts                          4.7         SW. NCB        Nov. 98         )cc. 98        Jan. 9')       Jil 99
111. Consultant Services                     0.8
ALMP                                        0.3         QCBS           Nov. 98        l)cc. 98       Jan. 98         Jan. 0()
Labor Forcc Surveys                         0.1         SS             Sep. 98        Oct. 98        NoN. 98         Mar. 99
Audit                                       0.1         LCS            Sep. 98        Oct. 98        No. 98          Junl ()0
TA, training                                0.3        IC              N/A
IV. Recurrent Costs (Operating Costs)        0.6         N/A            on-going
IS-International Shopping
NS-National Shopping
SW-Small Works
IC-Selection based otn Individual Consultants
OCBSgQuality and Cost-based Selection
l.CS-Slclction based on Least Cost Selection
CQ-Sclection based on Consultant's Qualifications
SS-Single Source
NA-Not Applicable
AIssumes unallocated amo,,nt nirould go touard mnicroprojects.
' Microprojects are expected to include contracts for civil works procured through Small Works (US$3.3 million) and NCB
(USS0.8 million), goods procured using National Shopping (US$0. I million); and services procured using QCBS (US$0.4
million) and IC (US$0.1 million) to prepare, supervise and evaluate microprojects.



Page 41
Table D: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amotim in       Financing Percentaoe
_ _ _ __ _  DEM millioni
1. Microprojects: goods, works                     6.20          80% of total
and services                                                  expendittires
2. Goods: (Project Management)                      0.40         100% of foreign
expendittures: 100%
local expenditures
(ex factory): 80% of
other items procured
locally
3. Consultinig Services and Traininig               1.10         100% of foreigin
expenditures; 80% of
local expendittires
4. Operating Costs                                  0.75         80% of local
expendituLres
5. Front-end Fee                                    0.09         Amotiult due unider
Section 2.04 of the
Loan Agreemenit
6. Unallocated                                      0.55
Total         9.09



Page 42
Annex 6
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
48.000               47.000
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identificationi)              02/15/1998          02/15/1998
Pre-Appraisal mnission departure                  04/16/1998          04/16/1998
Negotiations                                      07/15/1998           09/17/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     09/01/1998           12/15/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant (US$430,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
John Iniies                                Program Team Leader
Mary Beth Schmidt                          Task Leader
Ainis Dani                                 Social Scienitist
Jan Rutkowski                              Labor Economilist
Lada Stoyanova                             Project Officer
Rohit Mehta                                Disbursement Officer
Zoe Kolovou                                Counsel
Alessandra lorio                           Counsel
Roberto Tarallo                            Financial Managemenit Specialist
Ronald Venezia                             Procurement Analyst
Imelda Mueller                             Team Assistant
Michal Rutkowski                           Sector Leader
J. Christopher Lovelace                    Sector Director



Page 43
Annex 7
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Operations Manual, September 1998
Social Fund Law (draft, April 1998)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
TOR for Social Assessment
Preliminary Reports of Social Assessmenlt Researchers
C. Other
Pre-Appraisal Report, Jennifer Leach, Consultant,
UNDP Beautiful Bulgaria Report
UNDP Project Document
USDOL PLEDGE document
*lhcludinIg electronic files.



Page 44
Annex 8
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between             Last PSR
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   expected           Supervision.
Fisc                                                                                                                                    and actual           Rating b/
al                                                                                                                                   disbursements
Project ID   Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig           Frm     Dev Obj      imp
Rev'd                 Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 7
Active Projects
BG-PE-8307    1991      BULGARIA                       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE REFORM             17.00       0.00          3.73            2.71        6.33      2.60         U         S
BG-PE-8322    1993      BULGARIA                       TELECOMMUNICATION                       30.00       0.00          0.00            6.11        5.71      0.00        HS         HS
BG-PE-8316    1993      NATIONAL ELECTRIC              ENERGY                                  93.00       0.00          0.00           51.46        51.47     0.00         S         S
BG-PE-8319    1994      BULGARIA                       WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING           98.00       0.00         41.00           48.64        46.38    15.42         S         U
BG-PE-8318    1996      BULGARIA                       HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCTURING              26.0       0.00          0.00           20.81        13.82     0.00         S         U
BG-PE-8315    1996      BULGARIAN STATE RAILWAYS   RAILWAY REHABILITATION                      95.00       0.00          0.00           39.87        21.98     0.00         S         S
BG-PE-8323    1997      BULGARIA                       SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION          24.3       0.00          0.00           24.13        11.51     0.00         S         S
BG-PE-33965   1998      BULGARIA                       ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION PILOT    16.00            0.00          0.00           16.00        1.73      0.00         S         S
Total                                                                                         399.30       0.00         44.73           209.73      158.93   18.02
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    151.56             559.10               710.66
of which has been repaid:                     11.28             38.87                 50.15
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                    343.29             520.23               863.52
Amount sold                                           0.00              0.00                  0.00
Of which repaid                :                  0.00               0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :                209.73                .85               209.73
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory,
U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 45
Annex 8a
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval          Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic        Loan   Equity    Quasi        Partic
1994             Euromerchant FND          0.00    5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      3.50      0.00         0.00
1996             Interlease Inc.           3.50     .30      0.00      0.00      2.00       .30      0.00         0.00
1997             Sofia Hilton             10.80    0.00      2.00      9.50      0.00      0.00      0.00         0.00
Total Portfolio:               14.30    5.30      2.00      9.50      2.00      3.80      0.00         0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi       Partic
1999             CELHART                  13.90     1.50     0.00         0.00
1998             DEVNYA CEMENT            45.00    0.00      0.00        50.00
Total Pending Commitment:      58.90     1.50     0.00        50.00



Page 46
Annex 9
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Bulgaria at a glance                                                             10130198
Europe &    Lower      _
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central  middle-
Bulgarta     Asia  Income   I Developnent dmond-
1997
Population, mid-year (inhlions)                       8.3       476     2.285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Alas method, USS)                   1,140     2,320     1,230
GNP (Atas metWod USS bilions)                         9.5     1.108     2.818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       -0.7       0.2       1.2
Labor force(%)                                       -1.9       0.5       1.3     GNP          ,';  AGross
Most recent esUmate (latest year available, 199147)                                  ita pnollnmant
Poverty (% of population below nat6onal poverty line)                             ca
Urban population (% of total populaion)                68        67       42   i1
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       70        69       69
Infantmortality(per1,000livebirths)                    18        25       36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              .                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 ..        ..       84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                       19   !
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populatlon)  103       92       111          -  Bulgaria
Male                                               104                 116         ---Lower-middle-4ncome group
Female                                             101                 113                 L
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997
Economic rathlo
GDP (US$ billions)                                   20.3       9.8      10.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                        35.9       8.4      11.8                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    40.0      62.9      61.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                           32.4      11.5      17.4
Gross national savings/GDP                           32.1       6.6      15.2                      i
Current account balance/GDP                          -4.7      -0.8       4.1     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                 1.5       4.9       4.8     Saving                      Investment
Total debVGDP                                        29.0     100.0      97.4          gs
Total debt service/exports                           15.2      19.9      19.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                      94.4
Present value of debt/exports                                 144.1
Indebtedness
119764   1987497    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 3.3    -3.8   -10.1        -69                   -Bulgaria
GNP per capita                      3.3    -3.0   -10.3        -5.7                        Lower-middle-Income group
Exports of goods and services       5.8   -18.8    10.3         7.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                                 197e    1988        1991     1997      Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
Agriculture                                          12.9      14.5      23.3      O 
Industry                                             64.0      28.5      26.2
Manufacturing                                                 19.8     18.3  .I0
Services                                             23.1      57.0      50.5    2t0
Private consumption                                  59.0      76.6      70.2    40
General govemment consumption                         8.6      11.9      12.4                  GDI         *-GDP
Imports of goods and services                        43.5      59.8      55.7
19764-6  1987-97     1996      1997      Grawthratesofexportsand huports(%)
(average annual growth)                                           I
Agriculture                                 -2.0    -3.5       -7.4      26.2    40
Industry                                     6.7    -6.2       -9.3    -13.1    20
Manufacturing                               o.                                                _ 
Services                                     2.3    -0.8      -12.1    -14.1   -20 /           03         06
Private consumption                          3.0    -3.3      -12.0      -8.4   -40 
General govemment consumption               10.6    -1.8      -28.9    -11.5   .00
Gross domestic investment                    3.1    -13.0     -10.9    -31.8 6
Imports of goods and services                5.9   -21.5        1.2      -4.4            -     Exports     * nports
Gross national product                       3.5    -3.8      -10.8      -8.5
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 47
Annex 9a
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
e1976    1988     1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Dont6sUc pJrices
(% change)                                                                       1.200 -
Consumer prices                                               123.0  1.082.3      SW:
ImplicitGDPdeflator                                   1.3     121.0    951 0      600.
Govenment finance                                                                 200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                      81.0      32.7      32.6             92   93   94   95   96   97
Current budget balance                                        -41         1                    GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                       -15.4      2.1 
TRADE
1976    1986     1996      1997      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions) 
Total exports (fob)                                 9,096     4,890    4,927     eooo
MetalX                                            1.669      1,238
Other agriculture                                 1,377      1,326              4000
Manufactures                                                                    4 |00
Total imports (cif)                                10,292     5,074    4,923
Food                                                402  1,056                  2000!01111111
Fuel and energy                                   1,820      1,150              0ooo_
Capital goods                                     4,523      1,350                0
Export price index (1995=100)                         87        102       96          G9  92  93  94  06  96  97
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      64         96       91   [           * Exports     a Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    135         106      106   |
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                    Current account balance to-GDP ratio
Exports of goods and services                  -  10.070      6,256     6,264     6
Imports of goods and services                      10,935     5,948    5,728      4
Resource balance                                    4864        308      536      2_
Net income                                     ''   -163       -396      -357   |              t94  95   s    97
Net current transfers                                  67         7      237      -4
Current account balance                             -960        -82      416   |     |
Financing items (net)                                332       -670     1,224    -10
Changes in net reserves                              628        751    -1,640    .12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                          793    2,483
Conversion rate (DEC, localWlSS)                      1.7     177.9   1,696.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1988      1996      1907
(US$ millions)                                                                 . Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          31    5,866    '9,831     9,823
IBRD                                         °       °       456       637                    G: 558 A: 537
IDA                                          0       0          0        0                                c 936
Total debt service                             2    1,554     1.284     1.271
IBRD                                         0       0        43        47
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                0:1,407
Offlicial grants                             °       °        98I
Official creditors                           0     276        98 
Private creditors                           10    1,297      -314                  F: 5,355                  0:1,030
Foreign direct investment                                     109      489
Portfolio equity                             0       0        50
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0        80      140     A-iBRO                         - Bilaeral
DlIbursements                                0       0         53      101   I  - IDA   D0 Other multilateral   F - Private
Pdncipal repayments                          0       0         13       17        C- IMF                    G- Short-term
Net flows                                    0       0        40        84
Interest payments                            0       0        30        31
Net transfers                                0       0         10       54
Development Economics                                                                                             10/30/98



Page 48
Annex 1O
BULGARIA: Regional Initiatives Fund (LIL)
ENVIRONMENTAL DA'T'A SHEE'T FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRDtIDA Lentding Program
CtiAtntri                       Bulgaria                 Projeci DNo:            BO PE 55156
4rojec: Namnez                  Rcgional Initiativs      Trotal Projeet Cosc     USS1 m
Fund-LIL
Appraisal Mwte:                 June 15. 11998           Progrmn Teaml Le-*der    John Innes
.7O:rd Date:                     (rmn/dd/yy )            Ta$ Tenam Leader        Mary Beth Schmidt. 32023
MM*nngiu  'Init                 ECSHD                    Sec:or                  Social Protection
Est. datc tbr receipt ot'EA 1v Balnk   NA
EA Cata;ry (A/B/C):             B                      | Date Assi:eL            Miay 28  199S
fWe Sheor PreperedVpdared May 28. 1998
.A jar Projicc ComPol.ilawus (presents dacnption ot projcct components)
a) Gr.its to rinatice implementation of 100 microprojects idendtircd and prepared by tuwidcipalities. NGOs and olacr
intermediaries. at an average ost of USS45.1tt70. Microprojwcts would icluide civil %vorks rebabilitationt or exieision of
municipal infrastructure. such as streets. vater supply systcns. schools. sanitation: and productive tkicroprojecis. such as
soil recovery. agroprocessing. family toutrisi. small irrigation works. rerorestation.
b) Administrative and operational costs of ihe implemneuting agency (salaries. equipment. vehicles. operating costs.
training arid TA for oversight of tiicroprojecls.
c) T.A. consulting senrices. transportation costs to conduct the Labor Markets Survey and a net impact evaluation of
active labor programils.
.4/ajat rI En;'inmuascnraltssIws: (dcsettbct msaor eavircwuel issues identified or suspected in projeet)
No apparent najor environmiental issues
Otker E,asirowmwncrtal 1%sue: (describes nivironmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
it is expected that the cxecution of microprojects would not caIuse any substantial environmental impacr. For the
purposo of controllinig and prcventing any particular situration, the wastes of health pOStS. rhe r.stewater of sewerage
systems. ilte irrigation wvater of agriculture infrastructure and water distribution networks would be treated and/or
disposed of itt an adcquate manner. Micmprojects concemcd with reforestation. erosiori control and sanitationt are
e.x ctedt o h.nve a positive cenirotuntental lmnpact. Inrrastrtcnure design and equipnmet nould iake Into considration
sulebittes to mitigate RDe. tire imprcts. Used materials of garbage and produets of die constructioof   phaun se   aio be buried
ipacautl0orized and cotrolled pmitces. A gpide for tbe fonitoredn and evaluation oservisotn.mtial asp     tit soctions
oni diagniosis. intieroretation and prevention of situatiolrso would ronn pan of the Op lationl Mfnuel. To safeguatrd ine
environment. ensironmenital criteria aould be icieorporated into dnicroprject appraisal.
Prcopused4cootosu: t7escribesai ctiosprw lot  miuate. itslvo al rouis m a issucaeiribed in projeet)
Wlhcacvcr a microproject would have an idenitiiable negative impact. .au appropriate rnitigation plan would bee
subgitied to IBRD. Microprojecas with scrious ne)ptive impacts would be excluded frin hnding, The envirounteal
imipaci imctiiodology and mitipnion plains would be imotitoTed during Bank sitpen ision.
sIl.rlificntloilvRnsieliulerer rinir cIpnneita C'tdory. (reasons f«or env. categoly scicesu A "plaimutioa of any dmuipBs trom initial
classirP.cation)
No envirominental imupact is ainlicipaled.
Stwits ofCateg,agu4 Aisuaxn..tSNt ( prestnts CAswta-up date. FA t'lrstttt aNtcurnt status)
N/A
RemrA#¢s: U#  Naut orw u,yolbcr alivirolulKnud sui rausi. list% bor.i VPup aih! iocasi N;oth COnlw.  telsC ICI %W10116 b14WM0vcr i7es
Si veu panninion t recusc EA. -:10
Signcd by:                                               Signed bv    | .) 1
Jolui hllns                                                    Michele Dc Nevers
Progran Team Leader                                         Sector Leader. Enviroinment
May 2S, 1998



MAP SECTION



IBRD 26532R
TED. RE-P                                     G                                        -          B
YUGOSLAVIA                  \                                  :2X Cke,,.o   ...~6~iK           ~                                                                          NooT .
(SERBIA/MONT.                            P'v                      Leodo           K     Looeohr                                                               (4/nlw          Poaid         °< :00
-B                  rO s.b ..    O     Zo.S                                                                                                                                    CITIES A     Sea
02                    i)             0   Cd  A NA                                                                                        R.K .*                                                AINL AIA
ISERBIA/MONT.)                                S                                           I;o0               I   KHA
-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~0 BlBogo                                                                                                  I42c'
F  Y                                              ok  S,Iho      f      =<05i . ; o P0;    S40 ;i  Sn::ooly
PIo    4K34  < / U N' ~ \ S 2Jq ; if . . < 5r  =                  ( _4P ordkoK
U-                                                                                                                                                                                       OB~~~STBOUNDARIESiT6.
YJGOSU-SVIA ~~~~~~.  BULGARIA                                                                                                                               5      20      40      40       80S    lOSZ P.  URGA
ISEREA/EOOCI/ ®____________________________G___F
LBAEIA'~TUREY                                                                                                                                                           oooooooBi, opdooloolp o ho oolof 2, 7oIdTURKEY.p
F Y R  d-ki      P.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVMBR15



