Report No. PID6834
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Regional Initiatives (+) ...
Fund Learning and Innovation Loan
Region                           ECA
Sector                           Human Development/Social Protection
Project ID                       BGPE55156
Borrower                         Government of Bulgaria
Implementing Agency              United Nations Development Program
Tzarigradsko shausse, 7th km.
1184 Sofia, Bulgaria
Tel:    3592 9753296
Fax:    3592 765024
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           June 1, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         June 27, 1998
Projected Board Date             October 22, 1998
Country and Sector Background
Objective
1.      The project will test the social fund mechanism as a means of support in
alleviating the transitional social costs of structural reforms by creating
temporary jobs through labor intensive civil works, restoring the information
base on the country's labor market, and creating an environment conducive to
microcredit for self-employment.
Description
2.      The project has three components:    (a) implementation of about 100
microprojects identified and prepared by municipalities, NGOs and other
intermediaries, with an average cost of US$45,000; (b) consulting services and
other expenditures to undertake a net impact evaluation of active labor market
programs, two labor force surveys, and to investigate the legal and
administrative impediments to microcredit; and (c) project management,
including operating costs, equipment, technical assistance, training, and
evaluation activities. Examples of microprojects include water supply,
sanitation, solid waste management, soil recovery, rehabilitation of local
health units, schools, feeder roads and irrigation works. Microprojects will
be proposed, appraised, approved and implemented in accordance with an
Operational Manual.
Financing
3.      In addition to US$5.0 million equivalent from the IBRD, the project would
be financed by US$0.7 million in cost sharing from municipalities, NGOs, and
other intermediaries and US$0.4 million from the UNDP.



Implementation
4.      A Project Management Unit (PMU), under the supervision of the UNDP, would
be the implementing agency for the project. A Steering Committee of
government and non-government representatives was established to oversee
implementation. Municipalities, NGOs, and other community organizations would
propose microprojects costing between US$10,000 and US$200,000. Microprojects
would be screened and appraised for their technical feasibility, labor
content, sustainable impact, and other criteria specified in the Operational
Manual. All civil works would be carried out by private commercial
contractors selected competitively.
Sustainability
5.      A number of measures would be tested during the project to improve
sustainability of microproject impact, including: (a) strong emphasis on
participation by municipal officials and users in selection and implementation
of microprojects; (b) prioritization of rehabilitation over new construction;
(c) requisite written agreements with central and regional authorities on
provision of operating and maintenance resources; and (d) diligent supervision
of works to ensure good quality.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
6.      The project takes into account past problems in the Bank's portfolio in
Bulgaria, and seeks to avoid them, namely: (a) supporting the newly created
PMU with guidance from the UNDP, technical assistance and close Bank
supervision; (b) avoiding delays due to insufficient resources to cover taxes
by requiring resources from the Ministry of Finance up-front and in accordance
with an agreed schedule; and (c) selecting an auditing firm prior to project
effectiveness. The project takes into account lessons learned from social
funds in other parts of the world, especially Latin America and countries of
the former Soviet Union.
Poverty Category
7.      The project is part of the Program of Targeted Interventions.
Environmental Aspects
8.      Microprojects would not cause any substantial environmental impact, and
in some cases--such as reforestation, erosion control and sanitation--are
expected to have a positive environmental impact. The formulation of
infrastructure design and the selection of equipment for specific
microprojects would take into consideration elements to mitigate negative
impacts. A guide for the formulation and evaluation of environmental aspects
with sections on diagnosis, interpretation and prevention of situations, would
form part of the Operational Manual. To safeguard the environment,
environmental criteria would be incorporated into microproject appraisal.
Whenever a microproject would have an identifiable negative impact, an
appropriate mitigation plan would be submitted to the IBRD. Microprojects
with serious negative impacts would be excluded from funding.
Program Objective Categories
-2-



9.      Poverty Alleviation
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Mary Beth Schmidt, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-2023
Fax No.:         (202) 522-3504
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 11, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



