                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR1985


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-22004)



                                    ON A
                       OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT

                 IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.0 MILLION



                                           TO



                       THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN


                                          FOR A


             OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE-OUT 2 PROJECT



                                       June 24, 2013


Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region




                                            1
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 2013)

                        Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
                                US$1.00 = JD 0.71

                             UNITS AND MEASURES
                             Metric Ton (MT) = 1000 kg

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January I - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CE        Cost-effectiveness
CFC       Chloroflourocarbons
CP        Country Program for the Phase-out of Ozone Depleting Substances
EXCOM     MLF Executive Committee
GA        Grant Agreement
GCEP      General Corporation for Environmental Protection
GIZ/GTZ   Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Internationale Zusammenarbeit
GOJ       Government of Jordan
HAPs      Hydrocarbon aerosol propellant
HCFC      Hydrochloroflurocarbons
IFR       Interim financial report
ISP       Institutional Strengthening Project
ISR       Implementation Status Reports
LPG       Liquid petroleum gas
MC        Methylene chloride
MLF       Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MMRAE     Ministry of Municipal, Rural Affairs and the Environment
MoEnv     Ministry of Environment
MOPIC     Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MP        Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
MT        Metric Tons
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NOC       National Ozone Committee
NOPP      National ODS Phase-out Plan
ODS       Ozone Depleting Substances
ODP       Ozone Depleting Potential
OORG      Ozone Operations Resource Group
OTF       Ozone Projects Trust Fund
PCR       Project Completion Report (for ODS subprojects)
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit


                                          2
QAE     Quality at Entry
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QALP    Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio
QSA     Quality of Supervision Assessment
OTF     Ozone Projects Trust Fund
SME     Small and Medium-size Enterprises
TCA     1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl chloroform)
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNEP    United Nations Environment Program
UNIDO   United Nations Industrial Development Organization




               Regional Vice President:       Inger Andersen
                     Country Director:        Ferid Belhaj
                       Sector Director:       Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                      Sector Manager:         Charles Joseph Cormier
                 Project Team Leader:         Tracy Hart
                    ICR Team Leader:          Tracy Hart
                  ICR Primary Author:         Sati Achath




                                          3
                                     HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                               Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project (ODS2)

                                                             CONTENTS

Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design.................................................. 10
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................ 14
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................... 18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................................... 22
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................................... 22
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................................ 25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 26
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing....................................................................................... 27 
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 28 
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................................. 34 
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 35 
   Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................................. 37 
   Annex 6. List of Supporting Documentation............................................................................. 40 




                                                                     4
A. Basic Information
Country:               Jordan                   Project Name:          JO: ODS PHASE-OUT II
Project ID:            P049706                  L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-22004
ICR Date:              06/14/2011               ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Borrower:              MOPIC / MOPICIC
Original Total
                       USD 3.5M                 Disbursed Amount:      USD 5.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 6.0M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: O
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Environment, National Ozone Unit (NOU)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                     Revised / Actual
Process              Date                  Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:      05/01/1992            Effectiveness:      N/A                   10/06/1995
Appraisal:           09/17/1995            Restructuring(s):   N/A                   05/31/2010
Approval:            10/06/1995            Mid-term Review:    N/A                   N/A
                                           Closing:            06/30/1999            12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                                                     Satisfactory
                                                                                              Negligible to
Risk to Global Environment Outcome
                                                                                              Low
 Bank Performance:                                                                            Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance:                                                                        Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank                      Ratings       Borrower                               Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Satisfactory Government:                             Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory Implementing Agency/Agencies:             Satisfactory
Overall Bank              Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
                                        Overall Borrower Performance:
Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation
                          Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)               QSA6, QSA7, QALP-1
Performance
 Potential Problem
                                                                               Satisfactory
Project at any time       No            Quality at Entry (QEA):
                                                                               (rated in QSA6 & QSA7)
(Yes/No):
                                                                               Satisfactory (QSA6,
 Problem Project at any
                            No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):       QSA7) and Highly
time (Yes/No):
                                                                               Satisfactory (QALP-1)
GEO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


                                                     5
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                10                    10
Petrochemicals and fertilizers                                   90                    90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                          50                    50
Pollution management and environmental health                    50                    50

E. Bank Staff
Positions                    At ICR                                   At Approval
Vice President:              Inger Andersen                           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:            Ferid Belhaj                             Inder Sud
Sector Manager:              Charles Cormier                          Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:         Tracy Hart                               Josephine Masanque
ICR Team Leader:             Tracy Hart
ICR Primary Author:          Sati Achath

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The overall objective of the project was to assist Government of Jordan (GOJ) in phasing out the use of
ODS within its territory through, inter alia: (a) the introduction of appropriate technology measures; (b)
the institutional strengthening of responsible governmental entities; and (c) the implementation of specific
cost-effective priority investments to reduce consumption of ozone depleting substances.

Key Indicators were:

       ODS Phase-out
       Policy measures introduced
       Cost-effective priority investments

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators and reasons/justifications
The PDO of the ODS phase-out project is to assist Jordan through a combination of policy support,
institutional capacity-building, and technical and financial assistance to the industry to meet its
obligations under the Montreal Protocol (MP) to completely phase-out the import of ODS by January
2010, with the interim steps of freezing imports at 1995-1997 average levels by 1999, 50% reduction by
2005, and 85% reduction by 2007. For halons, the freeze started in 2002, but the baseline and milestones
set in the foregoing apply (with the exception of the 2007 interim measure).


(a) GEO Indicator(s)
              Baseline Original Target Values (from            Actual Value Achieved at Completion or
Indicator
              Value     approval documents)                    Target Years
Indicator 1 : ODS Phase-out in MT

                                                     6
Value
                              ODS importation to zero (MT) ODS importation to zero (MT)
quantitative or 673 MT
                              (673 MT phase-out)                  (673 MT phase-out)
Qualitative)
                01-Jan-
Date achieved                 31-Dec-2012                         07-Jun-2012
                2000
                673 MT refers to Jordan’s baseline consumption level of CFCs (1995-1997 average) and
                was included as an indicator upon reorientation of the PDO towards compliance with the
Comments
                MP target of complete elimination of CFC and halon consumption in 2010. The project
(incl. %
                contributed to a direct and cumulative 1109 MT of ozone depleting potential (ODP)
achievement)
                eliminated and therefore has achieved more than 100% of expected volume of ODS to be
                phased out.
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                  Baseline Original Target Values (from                Actual Value Achieved at Completion
Indicator
                  Value        approval documents)                     or Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Policy Measures Introduced
                                                                       The GOJ has not issued import
Value                                                                  permits for CFC and halon since 2009
                               Complete phase-out
quantitative or 0%                                                     and 2007 respectively, meaning that it
                               of CFC and halon.
Qualitative)                                                           has completely phased out "Annex A"
                                                                       substances under the MP.
                  01-Jan-
Date achieved                  31-Dec-2012                             12-Dec-2012
                  2000
                  Project enabled the establishment of critical foundational ODS policies, including a
Comments          quota system for CFCs and halon to gradually reduce supply. Subsequent to the project,
(incl. %          GOJ has formalized the ban on CFCs and halon in an amended ozone regulation from
achievement)      early 2013. With both the de facto ban (no issuance of permits) and the subsequent
                  regulation, GOJ has achieved complete phase-out of CFC and halon by 100%.
                  Baseline Original Target Values (from                Actual Value Achieved at Completion
Indicator
                  Value        approval documents)                     or Target Years
Indicator 2 :      Cost-effective priority investments
Value                          14 Investment subprojects will have 14 investment projects (including the
quantitative or none           completed, ensuring total CFC and halon bank) have been physically and
Qualitative)                   halon phase-out.                        financially completed
                  01-Jan-
Date achieved                  31-Dec-2012                             12-Dec-2012
                  2000
                  During the life of the project, additional investment subprojects from the X originally
                  covered by the Project were approved by the MLF as they were required to ensure
Comments
                  demand ceased for CFCs and halon in all relevant sectors. All investment subprojects
(incl. %
                  approved were successfully completed, achieving targets as planned. Subprojects were
achievement)
                  cost-effective in terms of the amount of phase-out achieved for the grant dollar paid (see
                  Annex II).
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       Date ISR                                                                      Actual Disbursements
No.                     GEO                            IP
       Archived                                                                      (USD millions)
 1     07/21/1997        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 0.23
 2     12/12/1997        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 0.29
 3     04/06/1999        Satisfactory                   Unsatisfactory               0.62
 4     06/30/1999        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 0.66


                                                     7
5     12/22/1999       Satisfactory                Satisfactory               1.51
6     05/31/2000       Satisfactory                Satisfactory               1.68
7     11/30/2000       Satisfactory                Satisfactory               1.88
8     03/26/2001       Satisfactory                Satisfactory               1.88
9     09/28/2001       Satisfactory                Satisfactory               2.22
10 02/01/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               2.22
11 07/31/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               2.51
12 03/04/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.10
13 07/25/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.12
14 12/29/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.19
15 05/03/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.26
16 11/11/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.40
17 04/26/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.66
18 05/23/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.66
19 12/30/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               3.97
20 06/23/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.08
21 12/27/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.12
22 06/28/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.35
23 12/14/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.39
24 07/29/2008          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.51
25 06/21/2009          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.65
26 12/22/2009          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.67
27 06/29/2010          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               4.69
28 02/27/2011          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               5.23
29 11/26/2011          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               5.27
30 06/30/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               5.37
31 12/16/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory               5.45
H. Restructuring (if any)
                                  ISR Ratings at   Amount
Restructuring    Board Approved Restructuring      Disbursed at     Reason for Restructuring & Key
Date(s)          GEO Change                        Restructuring in Changes Made
                                  GEO IP
                                                   USD millions
                                                                    Extended one year to June 30,
4/19/1999        N/A              S       S        0.66
                                                                    2000.
6/30/2000        N/A              S       S        1.68             Extended to June 30, 2003.
                                                                    Schedule 1 of GA amended to
                                                                    reflect additional funds approved
8/12/2001        N/A              S       S        1.88             by the ExCom for Category 3
                                                                    (Goods and Services) raising the
                                                                    grant ceiling to US$3.797 million.
                                                                    Grant ceiling increased to US$5
                                                                    million and GA extended to June
6/26/2003        N/A              S       S        3.12             30, 2004. PDO adjusted to reflect
                                                                    stepped MP phase-out obligations
                                                                    for Jordan.
                                                                    Extended to June 30, 2010 to
5/24/2004        N/A              S       S        3.33
                                                                    coincide with the MP obligation of

                                                   8
                                         100% phase-out of CFCs and
                                         halon for Jordan.
                                         Reallocation of funds and creation
10/10/2004    N/A         S   S   3.40   of a fourth disbursement category
                                         in Schedule 1 of the GA.
                                         GA ceiling increased to US$6
05/19/2009    N/A         S   S   4.65   million to incorporate chiller
                                         replacement allocation.
                                         Extended to December 31, 2010 to
                                         allow the Institutional
05/31/2010    N/A         S   S   4.69
                                         Strengthening subproject to
                                         complete its MLF-scheduled cycle.
                                         Extended to December 31, 2011 to
12/28/2010    N/A         S   S   5.02   permit the chiller subproject to
                                         complete.
                                         Extended to December 31, 2012 to
                                         ensure continuity in the NOU and
12/05/2011    N/A         S   S   5.31   in ISP implementation, as well as
                                         allow completion of TA for the
                                         chiller subproject.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                  9
1. PROJECT CONTEXT, GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.       Country and Sector Background. The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete
the Ozone Layer (MP) is a multilateral environmental agreement that was adopted in 1987 based
on international recognition for the need for firm measures to protect the earth’s ozone later.1
The Protocol established time-bound targets to reduce the production and consumption of a
number of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS), initially (i) chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) used in
refrigeration, air-conditioning, and aerosol , solvents and foam applications; and (ii) halons, used
in fire protection. The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is a signatory of the Vienna Convention
for the Protection of the Ozone Layer and the Montreal Protocol 2 (MP) on Substances that
Deplete the Ozone Layer and committed to the complete phase out of the regulated substances in
accordance with the provisions of the MP and its amendments.
2.      Jordan ratified the MP in May of 1989, and as an “Article 5? country, i.e. with
consumption3 below 0.3 kilogram (kg) per capita, became eligible to receive grants from the
MP’s financial mechanism, the Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of Montreal Protocol
(MLF). The MLF was established in 1991 (first on an interim basis) to provide support to
Article 5, i.e. developing countries, to meet their MP obligations. The preparation of a country
program for ODS phase-out which lays out ODS consumption by sector and identifies priority
sectors to meet defined targets is a prerequisite for obtaining funds from the MLF. Jordan's first
Country Program was completed with the assistance of the World Bank in 1991. The Country
Program (CP) became the basis for MLF grant assistance channeled through the MLF
Implementing Agencies, including the World Bank.
3.      The CP established that Jordan's consumption of ODS in 1991 was 789 metric tons (MT)
of ODS. The bulk of the usage at that time was of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in the aerosol and
refrigeration sectors (for both manufacturing and maintenance activities). The ODS Phase-out I
Project was subsequently approved on June 21, 1993 to provide US$1.5 million in grants for the
conversion of aerosol and foam manufacturers and for developing project implementation
capacity within the National Ozone Unit (NOU). The project was closed on June 30, 2000, after


1
  About 90% of all ozone in the atmosphere is found in the stratosphere, beginning about 11 miles above Earth and
extending upwards to 30 miles, and therefore called the “ozone layer?. The ozone layer is important because it
protects life on Earth from short-wavelength ultraviolet radiation produced by the sun. Excessive ultraviolet-B
radiation can result in smaller crop yields and damage to plant genetic material, damage to marine ecosystems,
reduced fishery yields and animal health problems. It can also cause human health problems such as skin cancers,
eye cataracts and weakening of the immune system.

2
  The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the
Protection of the Ozone Layer) is an international treaty designed to protect the ozone layer by phasing out the
production of numerous substances responsible for ozone depletion. The treaty was opened for signature on
September 16, 1987, and entered into force on January 1, 1989. Since then, it has undergone four amendments, in
1990 (London), 1992 (Copenhagen), 1997 (Montreal), and 1999 (Beijing). It was also adjusted in 2007(for the fifth
time) to accelerate the phase out of hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs). It is believed that if the MP is adhered to,
the ozone layer would recover by 2050. The Protocol has global ratification.

3
    The definition of “consumption? per the MP is “imports + production - exports. Jordan does not produce ODS.


                                                         10
it was extended three times from its original closing date of December 31, 1996 to allow
subprojects to complete after delays in start-up of the project and procurement.
4.      During implementation of ODS I, Jordan identified additional enterprises using ODS,
increasing the national level consumption to nearly 1000 MT. It requested the Bank’s assistance
to seek additional funding through the MLF to address these enterprises. Thus, Jordan entered
into agreement with the Bank in October 1995 for a nominal grant amount of US$3.5 million
under an umbrella agreement for a second phase, ODS Phase-out II.
5.      The umbrella grant agreement instrument was created specifically for the Bank’s
Montreal Protocol activities (captured in OP10.21). In this instrument, specific grants
commitments were not necessarily specified up front, but rather were dependent upon MLF
approvals, often received over the life of the agreement.     This allowed the Bank to operate
within the MLF business model which was characterized by frequent approvals of small grants
on an enterprise and subproject-by-subproject basis. It also became important in delivering the
required assistance to the Government to meet its MP phase-out targets when the compliance
period started (in 1999 with a freeze on baseline consumption (the 1995-1997 average level).
6.      The project was closely modeled on ODS I and developed to finance technology transfer
relating to non-ODS production conversions to non-ODS processes and equipment at ODS
consuming enterprises. As ODS II was considered a continuation of ODS I, no Project Appraisal
Document was prepared separate to the ExCom subproject preparatory documents. In 2001, the
umbrella amount for ODS II was increased to US$3.8 million; increased to US$5.0 million in
2003; and in May 2009 it was increased again to a total of US$6.0 million. All increases were to
accommodate additional subproject approvals and institutional strengthening support by the
MLF ExCom.
7.      The Project spanned several country assistance strategies (CAS) and concluded one year
into the current FY12-15 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) which has as one part of its three-
pronged strategy to strengthen the foundation for sustainable growth with a focus on
competitiveness. The first and second stand-alone CAS for the total period of FY2000 to
FY2005 both had as one of their priority objectives the improvement and protection of the
environment. The FY03-05 CAS in particular identified the enactment of essential environmental
regulations to meet the objective. The FY06-10 CAS had as its main objective poverty reduction
and job creation while maintaining development sustainability. It recognized the substantial
efforts of Jordan in strengthening its environmental institutions by establishing a Ministry of
Environment and in enacting environmental laws and regulations. It also acknowledged more
work was needed to consolidate the institutional set-up for environmental management. The
ODS II Project directly contributed to improving the institutional capacity in environmental
protection. By modernizing and greening manufacturing at small and medium-size enterprises,
the project also contributed to a goal transcending all CAS and the CPS – sustainable growth.

8.      Rationale for Bank involvement. The World Bank agreed in 1991 to serve as one of
the Implementing Agencies of the MLF (along with the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP), the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) and in 1992, the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO)). The World Bank subsequently established the
Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) to channel MLF funds to eligible clients, i.e., Art. 5 countries.
Since the inception of the funding mechanism, about 40% of MLF resources have been provided
through the World Bank to 20 countries representing all of its geographic regions.

                                               11
9.      World Bank cooperation with Jordan on the Montreal Protocol dates back to the
inception of the MLF, in its interim stage at the beginning of the 1990s. Jordan was an active
player in the MP community and sought out the Bank’s support in developing its initial ODS
phase-out strategy, the country program.
1.2 Original Project Environment Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
10.     The overall objective of the project was to assist the Government of Jordan (GOJ) in
phasing out the use of ODS within its territory through, inter alia: (a) introduction of appropriate
technology measures; (b) institutional strengthening of responsible governmental entities; and (c)
implementation of specific cost-effective priority investments to reduce consumption of ozone
depleting substances.
11.      Key Indicators were:
  (i)    ODS Phase-out
  (ii)   Policy measures introduced
  (iii) Cost-effective priority investments
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
12.    In the original PDO, the timeframe for phasing out ODS was not linked to the Montreal
Protocol phase-out schedule. The project preceded the establishment of Article 5 country
baselines for the major ODS covered by the project, CFCs and halon (“Annex A substances?), of
the average of 1995-1997 consumption and production levels Hence the DO was fine-tuned to
focus on achieving the target reduction of ODS in tandem with MP obligations – complete
elimination of CFC and halon consumption by 2010 with several interim phase-out targets.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries.
13.     The main beneficiaries of ODS II were the Jordanian enterprises receiving funds for the
introduction of appropriate technology and equipment to eliminate consumption of CFCs and
halon. The Ministry of Environment (MoEnv), notably the National Ozone Unit (NOU), was to
benefit primarily from the capacity-building and institutional strengthening related to dealing
with ODS-specific issues and program management. Additionally, the global population and
the environment would be a primary beneficiary due to the reduction of the negative effects on
the stratospheric ozone layer.
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
14.      The project consisted of two components as follows:
Component 1: Technology Transfer and Engineering Assistance
15.     The principal focus of this effort would be to provide assistance for technology transfer
(the acquisition of non-ODS technologies) to the private sector with special emphasis on the
implementation of subprojects where the phase-out of ODS can be accomplished quickly and at
low cost. The subprojects related to industrial conversions in the foam, aerosol, and halon
sectors. The original allocation for this component was $3.2 million.
Component 2: Project Implementation Capacity Development


                                                12
16.    This component would provide funds (through an initial allocation of $0.3 million) to
continue to support the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), i.e. the NOU. It became the local
implementing unit for the project and the executive arm of the National Ozone Committee
(NOC), the inter-ministerial coordinating body that was handed overall responsibility for
implementing the policy recommendations of the original Country Program. At project start, the
Jordanian Government’s environmental functions were fulfilled by the Ministry of Municipal,
Rural Affairs, and the Environment (MMRAE). At project end, there is a separate Ministry of
Environment, with multiple reconfigurations of ministries and responsibilities in the interim.
17.     Resources would be used to hire staff for the PIU, including a technical specialist, and to
provide a salary incentive to any government employee assigned to the PIU (as was deemed
necessary, and in line with ExCom guidelines on institutional strengthening activities). These
incentives would be proportional to the additional workload assumed by the employees and in
line with the government salary structure. Part-time support would be provided by the Ministry
of Planning (MOPIC) and by an externally-hired financial consultant, to assist with subproject
financial analysis and incremental cost calculations. The capacities of these agencies would be
strengthened in order to properly implement the following key measures that have been
described and recommended in the CP:
(i)   Provision of technical support to enhance the capacity of agencies of the Recipient to deal
      with ozone protection issues and, in particular, to carry out the following:
      a. technical awareness and assistance measures to familiarize industry and the public with
         ozone protection technologies and issues;
      b. monitoring of the consumption and use of ODS, including consideration of a licensing
         system for such uses;
      c. financial measures for funding the phasing-out of the uses of ODS; and
      d. institutional measures for ozone protection, including preparation of terms of reference
         for a joint industry-government ODS phase-out committee.
(ii) Provision for office equipment and operational costs of the PIU.
1.6 Revised Components
18.      The components were not revised.
1.7 Other significant changes
19.     As noted previously, there were incremental changes in the project’s scope and scale with
the additional funding provided. This necessitated changes in the project’s schedule, the grant
ceiling, and funding allocations per disbursement categories. However, overall project design
and implementation arrangements stayed constant.
(i) Project Schedule. A frequent number of extensions is common for Montreal Protocol projects
given the unique approval process of the MLF ExCom of grant funding for achieving overall
global environmental objectives. For this reason, the project’s closing date was extended seven
times as described in Section H of the data sheet.
(ii) Funding allocations.
20.     During implementation, the Grant Agreement was amended to increase the grant amount
three times and was revised once to reallocate funds across disbursement categories, including to
an additional fourth category on training and study tours. This was deemed necessary to enable

                                                13
the Ozone Unit to fully implement its halon subproject by enabling beneficiaries to learn from
the experience of other countries in the region, in particular on halon substitutes.
21.    The first increase of $296,666 in the grant ceiling was to permit three ExCom renewals of
funding for strengthening Jordan’s MP implementation capacity under Component 2 (Part B) of
the project. “Institutional Strengthening? funding is provided to Art. 5 countries periodically to
support their overall ODS programs and to comply with MP reporting requirements. As the
ODS II project was extended several times, the disbursement category for Component 2 had to
increase to allow continued operation of Jordan’s overall ODS program by the NOU.
22.     The grant ceiling was then increased from US$3.8 to US$5 million to incorporate MLF
approval of the National ODS Phase-out Plan (NOPP), a subproject that was derived from
updating Jordan’s country program in 2002 and which aimed to eliminate all residual
consumption of CFCs and halon by the MP deadline of 1 January 2010. It also allowed for
further institutional strengthening funding required to accompany the extended time period for
carrying out the new subproject.
23.    The third increase to the grant ceiling to US$6 million, was done to make available to the
Recipient a US$1 million grant released to Jordan for chiller replacements. This funding
stemmed from a larger Global Chiller Replacement grant with the Bank that had been previously
approved by the ExCom and which named Jordan as one of the six possible beneficiary
countries.
2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
24.      Assessment of project design: Project design was straightforward and simple, comprising
two essential components: sub-grants to private sector industries for ODS phase-out and
institutional capacity building. This included well-defined, quantitative, phase-out targets, first
delineated in Jordan’s 1991 MP strategy and action plan, the country program and then updated
in 2002 (both with the Bank’s support), to eventually measure progress towards zero ODS
consumption by 2010. As the project activity primarily involved industrial conversion and
established alternative technologies in specific industries, the design gave significant attention to
these aspects and to their financing in a cost-effective manner, in line with MLF guidelines on
eligible costs and cost-effectiveness.
25.     During preparation, it was recognized that because implementation of a multilateral
environment agreement such as the MP was new to Jordan, and in advance of a national law on
the environment, a parallel focus on developing the institutional and policy capacity needed for
sustained results would be required. This included capacity not only to develop, promulgate and
enforce policies; monitor implementation on a technical level; and report phase-out progress, but
project implementation capacity, including procurement and financial management.
26.      The project design was fully in line with the financing approach of the MLF at the time
and appropriate to the overall intention of the MP. During implementation the scale and period
of performance were adjusted to reflect new subsectors and the reorientation of the MLF towards
compliance with the MP. In terms of the project's overall structure, the project operated to a
large extent through subprojects reviewed and approved by the MLF. These subprojects were
implemented in accordance with ExCom policies and guidelines, one of whose conditions was
that all subprojects must terminate the use of ODS and meet all relevant national environmental,

                                                 14
safety, and health standards. They were also consistent with the guidance provided by the
technical advisory bodies to the Parties of the Montreal Protocol. Specific guidelines and ‘code
of good practice' for different types of sectors had been developed by MLF and UNEP
respectively and as well as by the Bank (subproject templates, baseline equipment disposal
protocols, etc.).
27.    The project was designed before formal results frameworks were required for Bank-
supported projects, but its end results were clearly defined at the outset as were the causal (i.e.,
technological) links between inputs, outputs, and desired outcomes.
28.     Risk Assessment. The project risks were considered to be small. The technical
modifications and enhancements would rely on proven technologies, and safety provisions would
be included in all subproject designs. The total number of enterprises involved was small and
geographically concentrated, which would greatly simplify monitoring activities. As the project
implementation structure was new, start-up difficulties might be encountered. These would be
partly mitigated by the inclusion of MOPIC support to the NOU. A framework and guidelines for
technical appraisal, subproject costing, implementation and completion was under development
by the MLF to further mitigate risks.
29.      Adequacy of government commitment. At the time of project preparation, the
government had demonstrated a high level of commitment to the objectives of the project. For
example, Jordan had been a key participant in the MP negotiation process with its Government
having approved it in 1989. It has also been an active member of the ExCom over the past 20
years. It is the beneficiary of one of the earliest MP projects, has taken appropriate policy and
institutional measures and has implemented the project proactively, efficiently and effectively.
30.     It should be noted that most of the above text has been provided by Quality Assurance
Group’s QSA6, QSA7, and Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio (QALP-1) sections
specific to Quality at Entry; all three QAG assessments rated overall Quality of Entry as
Satisfactory (2).
2.2 Implementation
31.     There were changes in risk ratings at times which were spurred on by implementation
challenges with specific subprojects. No formal midterm review (MTR) took place as there were
two points in project implementation which involved assessment of the extent to which the
objectives of the project were being met. The first was in 2000 with the completion of the ICR
for ODS I. The two projects were closely linked in structure and objectives and experiences
drawn from ODS I informed ODS II implementation, particularly in terms of subproject costing,
and assessing enterprise readiness and its technical, financial and procurement capacity.
32.     The second was during the preparation of Jordan’s country program update which
thoroughly reviewed the impacts achieved from the ODS II project (and other projects in Jordan)
and which led to the preparation and approval of the NOPP subproject. This subproject realigned
the project’s ODS phase-out objectives with the end goal under the MP – complete phase-out of
CFCs and halon by 2010.
33.    The following factors affected project implementation:
34.    Successful implementation of the Project by the NOU was largely dependent on
Government support that it secured. The Government approved the licensing system for ODS
importers, establishing ODS import monitoring procedures, and providing authority to MMRAE

                                                15
to recommend ODS price increase through special tax imposed on CFCs, to levels that
encourage users to switch to the low-priced ODS substitutes. MOPIC, MMRAE and the General
Cooperation on Environmental Protection (GCEP) provided the support and assistance for the
project to succeed. MOPIC trained the NOU staff in the processing of withdrawal applications;
the MMRAE and the GCEP supported the public awareness campaign and in obtaining
Government's approval of the required legislation.
35.     Some challenges were experienced during implementation which can be summarized as:
(i)Mobilizing Counterpart Funding and Procurement: In the first phase of the ODS II Project
which dealt with conversions at individual enterprises, there were some delays on the part of
approximately five enterprises in implementation. For several, the delay was directly attributed
to the need to contribute additional counterpart funding to achieve satisfactory quality in
manufacturing. MLF grants approved did not always cover full costs, in particular in the aerosol
sector due to the established cost-effectiveness threshold for funding and deductions in the grant
from expected savings in incremental operating costs.
36.     (ii) Delayed Funding: The funding for the chiller project in Jordan was delayed several
years at the level of the MLF, which had a number of policy issues to clarify before providing
one-time funding for select chiller replacements around the world. Expectation in the Jordan
chiller sector however was that funding would be available relatively quickly. In the end, some
building owners could not await approval of the funding and replaced chillers with their own
funds. Some others did receive subsidies, but only after a special waiver was sought for not
having complied with the grant agreement’s prior review requirement.
37.     (iii) High turnover of Task Team Leaders (TTLs). During the 17 years of the project,
there were seven or eight TTLs. TTL changes during design phase of the project contributed to
delayed implementation start. For the bulk of this project’s implementation period (nine years)
the project continued with one TTL, a financial management specialist, which helped in
establishing stability and continuity in project implementation. Subsequent TTLs varied in their
commitment and attention paid to this project, with commensurate results in implementation
support. Aside these challenges, no major issues hampered implementation. Minor
administrative problems were resolved as they occurred.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
38.     M&E design. The project revised its original PDO to include phase-out targets to
measure progress towards zero ODS consumption by 2010 in line with the MP requirements for
CFCs and halon. The project benefitted from very clearly defined, outputs (common to MP
operations), very clear definition of targets and indicators, and a good framework for regular
reporting of results in relation to the baseline consumption of ODS substances.
39.    M&E implementation. NOU regularly collected data according to the indicators
developed during project preparation. These data were closely monitored and the actual figures
were compared with the target values. For example, NOU reported the status of contracts and
consumption of ODS and these reports were sent to the Bank for review.
40.    M&E Supervision and Utilization: Supervision of MP performance across Bank
operations is strengthened both by the highly detailed and technical protocol for monitoring and
evaluation, which includes ODS phase-out measurements, phase-out sustainability, as well as
more general project performance indicators. Appropriate data collected by NOU was regularly


                                               16
evaluated and used for reporting on the Bank’s overall annual progress and financial report that
is submitted to the ExCom each year.
2. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
41.      It should be noted that the project Technical Report (PAD-equivalent) and Grant
Agreement incorporated the Bank safeguards, financial management, and procurement
institutional practices as of 1997. In the ensuing 17 years, the PIU adapted to learn and use
changing Bank documentation in fiduciary areas. This occurred without changes to the project
documentation and without substantial training in updated Bank practices.
42.     Safeguards. The project was reviewed and cleared as per the Bank’s OP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment Procedure) by the Regional Environment Division and given a B
classification. MMRAE held the responsibility to ensure that companies provided with
assistance under the MLF complied with applicable environmental, health and safety regulations.
Furthermore, up to 25 percent of subproject funding cost went towards safety measures and
training for certain subprojects, including for worker health and safety. Additionally, MLF
guidelines on project measures to be taken in ODS phase-out were in place. The Bank’s Ozone
Operations Resource Group (OORG) reviewed the safety measures adopted by the project and
found them to be in compliance with international practice and MLF guidelines.
43.     In implementing safeguard measures up through the final chiller replacement subprojects,
an unintended consequence arose. CFCs from decommissioned chillers were safely recovered
and have been stored in the country’s national ODS bank. However, because of the late stage of
taking CFC-based chillers offline there is no demand for recovered CFCs and the CFCs remain
in the hands of the Government until funding can be identified to have them shipped and
destroyed. The UNEP Ozone Officer’s network for the Middle East is exploring a regional
approach to address this issue which is common to several countries that implemented MLF
projects.
44.     Financial management: The project’s performance specific to Financial Management
was Moderately Satisfactory. Audit reports were late in the period 2000-2003. In 2011, the
project appointed an external auditor without World Bank consultation. On the TOR, selection
process, or non-objection, it was noted that the external auditing firm was licensed by the
Jordanian Association for Public Accountants yet lacked sufficient auditing experience of
donors’ financed projects of the same scale of this Project. Also, there have been continued
unresolved discrepancies between NOU records and the World Bank client connection.
Nonetheless, the project has broadly adhered to Bank financial management good practice with
regards to maintaining proper finance accounts and records and submitting audit reports all years
of project implementation. Interim financial reports (IFRs) were submitted on time and were
satisfactory in quality; and there was a smooth flow of funds.
45.     Procurement: The beneficiaries of the Chiller Replacement Project were institutions
functioning in a commercial environment, and thus the legal agreement, procurement section
should have had "commercial practices" as a procurement method. To mitigate this, two
subgrant agreements (SGAs) for Airport International Group (AIG) and one for Ma’in Resort
were subject to a special waiver by the World Bank given that the chiller replacement at these
sites took place in 2008, 2009, and 2012 and in each the procurement method recommended in
the GA could not be followed (along with the Bank’s prior review requirement).


                                               17
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
46.    (a) Transition arrangements. During the implementation period, the NOU and the
Ministry of Environment put into place several policies and regulations to control ODS
consumption, as well as imported products containing certain ODS (CFCs). A solid regulatory
framework has been established which enables the Government of Jordan to build on – a
necessity as phase-out requirements begin for additional substances controlled by the MP,,
namely Annex C substances, HCFCs.
47.      The transition arrangements for continuing ODS phase-out operations in the future
appear to be adequate. For example, after the elimination of CFC and halon consumption
(imports), Jordan not only maintained the licensing system and import quota, but extended it to
the next ODS that will be subject to MP controls, hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs). The
NOC, headed by the Minister of Environment, continues to be active as an advisory body and
has been expanded to include newly relevant agencies, such as the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Resources (given the link between energy efficiency and HCFC phase-out).
Institutional capacity has been created across Customs and MoEnv to ensure that no ODS are
imported outside the established system through the development of training curricula and
periodic training of Customs officers. Moreover both agencies have developed system to share
information on import permits and imports realized (using international customs codes). The
project has also provided the Government with the equipment (refrigerant identifiers) needed to
monitor imported gases.
48.     The NOU has evolved into a strong institution with adequate capacity to regulate,
monitor and enforce. Relevant policies are in place and continue to evolve as MP requirements
proceed. It also continues awareness raising among the public, various productive sectors and
partner government agencies to maintain phase-out results and to use the momentum to begin
tackling HCFCs. With recurring institutional strengthening funding from the MLF, it is expected
that the NOU will have adequate resources to lead and manage MP implementation and
enforcement in Jordan in the years to come.
49.     (b) Follow-on project. Jordan received approval of Stage I of an HCFC Phase-out
Management Plan (HPMP) at the 65th Meeting of the ExCom in November 2011. This approval
included US$2.34 million in funding for complete HCFC-22 phase-out in the manufacturing of
air-conditioning in Jordan under the World Bank by December 31, 2016.
50.     A new ODS III project was subsequently approved by the World Bank on April 26, 2013,
which includes the air-conditioning sector plan, as well as a component for institutional
strengthening renewals that Jordan as an Article 5 country receives from the MLF every two
years.
3. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
51.    The objectives of the project continue to be relevant to Jordan’s international
commitment to implement the Montreal Protocol. ODS phase-out obligations for Article 5
countries now center on HCFCs and the institutional and technical capacity developed through
the Jordan ODS II project is required to effectively address these substances during their long
phase-out period starting January 1, 2013 and extending to 2040. ODS phase-out through
implementing priority investments in the private sector will again be the major means towards

                                              18
meeting initial HCFC phase-out targets in 2013, 2015 and 2020. Moreover, assisting small
enterprises to modernize and green their manufacturing – and in doing so improve their
competitiveness in certain markets – is appropriate to overall development goals of Jordan. .
Relevance of objectives: High.
52.     The relevance of the design was to deliver on the MLF CP and MP objectives through a
simple, two-component project: one technical and one institutional. The project was able to
absorb multiple additional funding tranches without need for indicator or component
restructuring. Design relevance: High.
53.     Implementation relevance depended substantially on the capacities and the
responsiveness of the individual subproject beneficiaries, i.e. the private sector entities. These
private sector capacities to work with both MLF and Bank institutional processes were highly
variable, which contributed to implementation lag in some cases. One early ISR rating of
“unsatisfactory? can be attributed to enterprise delay, namely in equipment procurement
Implementation relevance: Substantial.
Overall relevance of this project has assessed to be High.
3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
54.     The project is Satisfactory in having achieving its objectives. The highlights of the
project’s achievements are given in the following Table:

          Indicator                            Target                        Actual Value

ODS Phase-out in MT                  ODS importation to zero        ODS importation to zero (MT)
                                      (MT) (673 MT phase-out)*        (673 MT phase-out)*

Policy measures introduced.          Complete phase-out of CFC   The GOJ has not issued any import
                                      and Halon.                  permits for CFC and Halon, meaning
                                                                  that it has completely phased out
                                                                  "Annex A" substances under the MP.

Cost-effective priority          14 Investment subprojects will      14 investment projects (including
investments                      have completed ensuring total        the halon R&R center) were
                                 CFC and halon phase-out              physically and financially
                                                                      completed
* CFC baseline consumption level for Jordan.

55.    Project achievements for Component 1: Technology Transfer and Engineering
Assistance: The project succeeded in completely ending imports of CFCs and halon by
December 2008, which was one year ahead of the MP deadline of January 1, 2010 for Article 5
countries. This was largely due to the elimination of demand of CFCs and halon by the
conversion of manufacturing capacity to alternative technologies at more than 40 enterprises
through 14 subprojects under the project – a cumulative phase-out of 1109 ODP tons of CFCs
and halon. Through technical assistance and technological support, the majority of enterprises
were able to choose and adopt alternatives that are not only ozone-friendly but have no global-
warming potential (GWP), long before the linkage between ozone and climate was recognized in
these sectors. The new technological capacity and equipment acquired was also a boost to the
competitiveness of these small enterprises.


                                                         19
56.     The project also led to the replacement of the 20 CFC-based chillers in the country in
order to eliminate the last major source of CFC demand used in servicing. Fifteen chillers were
replaced and partially funded under the subproject. The remaining five CFC-based chillers were
replaced prior to the approval of the Global Chiller Replacement Project by the ExCom but
arguably due to the awareness that the NOU built in the sector of the large energy savings to be
had in anticipation of MLF support. In fact, an indirect achievement of this subproject was to
demonstrate the critical linkage between energy savings and more advanced technologies and the
potential in the future for energy savings and climate benefits in the replacement of the large
fleet of HCFC-based chillers. Chiller owners expressed great satisfaction with the impressive
energy savings with summer energy bills cut as much as two-thirds.
57.     The phase-out achieved by the subprojects was particularly cost-effective with the grant
cost-effectiveness coming in lower than the established MLF cost-effectiveness thresholds for
particular sectors in every subproject (see Table 2.2 in Annex 2). The project was successful in
leveraging an additional US$2.3 million from the private sector (a grant leveraging ratio of 2:1),
demonstrating the buy-in and vested interest of the participating enterprises.
58.    Project achievements for Component 2:            Project Implementation Capacity
Development: The Government of Jordan, through the Ministry of Environment and the NOU
sharpened ODS-related regulations to permit the country to fully meet its MP obligations. For
example, Jordan introduced an ODS licensing system for ODS users, and established ODS
import monitoring procedures in MoEnv and Customs, as well as policies for discouraging
the use of ODS (such as the CFC tax). The specific policy and regulatory actions taken by
Jordan are as follows:
    (a) In 1993 ODS were included in the list of items needing import licenses and established
        that GCEP would clear requests for ODS import permits;
    (b) In 1994 the Government through MMRAE banned the setting up of new enterprises
        using CFC;
    (c) In 1995 an environmental law for Jordan was promulgated;
    (d) In 1999 the Government enacted regulations to ban imports of used refrigerators and
        equipment operating on ODS;
    (e) In 2000 the Government enacted regulations to control and monitor ODS;
    (f) MoEnv enacted a de facto ban on halon and CFC in 2007 and 2009 respectively by non-
        issuance of import permits after having gradually decreased quotas for both substances
        based on MP interim targets; and,
    (g) In 2012, MoEnv prepared a draft by-law to formalize the ban on CFC and halon while
        establishing the phased HCFC consumption (import) ceilings through a quota system.
59.     As the project advanced, culminating with the implementation of the NOPP and Chiller
Replacement subprojects, the NOU’s technical capacity evolved to permit effective policy
development, management of subprojects and controlling ODS consumption at the enterprise and
national levels. This combined capacity is key for the implementation of more complicated,
performance-based, sector level projects, which are now the norm under the MLF for delivering
assistance. In fact, Jordan has entered into agreement with the MLF ExCom using such a project
modality to reduce HCFC consumption through 2016, a modality that was deemed too
challenging in 2002 when the NOPP was approved by the ExCom.



                                               20
60.     In order to create demand for non-CFC and halon based products and for the avoidance
of virgin CFC use in servicing stationary refrigeration and mobile air-conditioning systems, the
project facilitated public awareness campaigns and the education of various segments of the
population on the importance of protecting the ozone layer. Awareness raising covered all MP
controlled substances, including methyl bromide which is used to control pests in
agriculture. Every year since 1995, the NOU has among others:
         (a)   Given lectures to universities and schools on ozone issues;
         (b)   Held technical workshops and awareness workshops;
         (c)   Conducted seminars on Ozone Day; and
         (d)   Advertised and encouraged media to report on ozone issues.
3.3 Efficiency
61.     Consistent with the MLF ExCom project approval process, efficiency is assessed on the
cost-effectiveness (CE) of the phase-out achieved. See Annex 3: Economic and Financial
Analysis for a more detailed accounting of the cost calculations for project investments as
approved by the MLF ExCom and actual cost-effective values achieved in project
implementation. This cost-effectiveness calculation does not factor in subproject implementation
delays. Cost-effectiveness in terms of dollar-for-value is rated as Satisfactory. Time
effectiveness is rated is Moderately Unsatisfactory with respect to other World Bank projects,
but Satisfactory as compared to the sample of MP overall CFC project portfolio where average
implementation time was approximately 13 years. Overall efficiency is rated as Satisfactory.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
62.    Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.1 and 3.2, the overall outcome is rated as
Satisfactory.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
63.    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The project did not have any
impact on these aspects, as they were beyond the scope of the project.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
64.      The project resulted in Substantial institutional development impact. The project
successfully implemented policy to enforce complete phase-out of CFCs and halon in Jordan.
Staff who worked in the project has moved out to other global environmental positions in the
Ministry of Environment and are using experience and skills gained under the project on other
programs. Many workshops and training sessions conducted under ISP such as for Customs
officers, and for the preparation of policy and regulation, most recently the draft ODS by-law
which will govern the HCFC-quota system, have contributed in strengthening relevant
institutions. Individuals participating in the National Ozone Committee that is made up of
various line ministries and agencies have through their participation over the years in key
advisory meetings for MoENV’s ODS program built awareness in their own institutions about
Jordan’s international commitments and their respective obligations (such as business permitting,
tax exemptions, plant inspections, and ODS import controls).
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


                                                21
65.    Indirect global environmental benefits: The phase-out of CFCs, gases which not only
have high ODP values but extremely high global warming potential, contributed to significant
additional global environmental benefits. Estimated GWP impact achieved through ODSII
implementation, based on total consumption phase-out by substance (1,109 ODP MT) is
approximately 5 million tons CO2 equivalent (CO2eq) avoided annually (or close to taking a
million passenger vehicles off the road).
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
66.    N/A
4. ASSESSMENT OF RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
67.    Rating: Negligible to Low
68.     Government policy commitment to this program is strong, and it is extremely unlikely
that industries would revert back to previous (CFC and halon-based) technologies as alternatives
are now more cost-effective and, most importantly, global production of CFCs and halon for
non-essential and critical uses has ceased since January 1, 2010.
5. ASSESSMENT OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
69.    Rating: Satisfactory.
70.      The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of
project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and
institutional, including procurement and financial management.
71.     Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who provided
the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and develop an appropriate project
design. The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount to
ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the government
priorities in the sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with
the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
(b) Quality of Supervision
72.    Rating: Satisfactory
73.    Quality Assurance Group (QAG) ratings and observations: The project was subject to
three Quality Assurance Group (QAG) reviews during implementation: A Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA6) in October 2004; (QSA7) in October 2006; and Quality Assessment of
Lending Portfolio (QALP-I) in October 2008. The overall results of these QAG assessments
were consistently positive.
74.     QSA6 panel of reviewers rated the Focus on Development effectiveness, Supervision of
Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects, Candor and Quality of Project Performance Ratings, and overall
assessment as Satisfactory, and Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes as Moderately
Satisfactory. Overall, the panel judged the prospects of attaining the ODS depletion targets by
2010 as 'Likely', given strong government policy commitment, an effective monitoring agency,

                                              22
and progress made to date. Further, according to the panel, the task team was extremely diligent
in carrying out its monitoring responsibilities, aided by an experienced and well-staffed team,
being able to call on technical experts, and admirable working relations with the main Jordanian
counterpart agency.
75.     QSA7 panel rated the Focus on Development effectiveness, Supervision of
Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects, Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes, and overall
assessment as Satisfactory. Candor and Quality of Project Performance Ratings was rated Highly
Satisfactory. The QAG noted that: “Bank supervision of this small ($5 million) project has
continued to show good continuity and attention to issues and progress, despite limited
supervision budget and a change in TTL late in the period under review. The Task Team give
consistent attention to progress and issues, looking for ways to remain engaged, and diligent in
reporting these in ISRs. ISR's provide good balance between implementation details and the
larger picture of DO progress, and accurately signal what needs to be done to address ongoing or
recent issues. Management comments are consistently present, and also provide a good picture of
how the regional Management sees the supervision issues.?
76.     QALP-I panel rated the quality of implementation and the likelihood of achieving DOs as
Highly Satisfactory/Likely. The quality of design, Bank supervision, focus on development
effectiveness, supervision inputs and processes, and candor and realism in ISRs was rated as
Satisfactory. QAG panel noted that: “No major problems with implementation were encountered
and more minor issues, mainly administrative in nature, were dealt with effectively by the
Government with support from the Bank.?
77.      According to the ICR team, the Bank's performance during the implementation of the
project was satisfactory. The task team focused on the project’s development impact. The
project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The task team regularly prepared
Aide-Memoires, alerted GOJ and NOU about issues found during project execution and
facilitated prompt corrective action. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) realistically
rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and
project implementation.
78.      The Bank’s procurement and financial management proficient staff worked with NOU
staff to explain the rules and procedures to be applied during project implementation, with regard
to procurement of goods and works, and selection of consultants, accounts and audits, based on
the Grant Agreement. The team had developed a close working relationship with Jordan's ODS
team.
79.    Frequent changes of TTLs at the earlier stage contributed to delay in project
implementation. However, the Task Team (TT) had good continuity, and it was balanced in
terms of skills and experience, and benefitted from the presence of a staff member from the
Montreal Protocol Operations team in the anchor. It also was well staffed technically, including
in the areas of procurement, environment, and financial management. The TT maintained a
frequent and effective interaction with the Borrower from HQ which facilitated implementation.
80.     QAG noted that “the long lead time to achieve full ODS phase-out required a sizeable
extension of the original closing date to 2010, to which management eventually agreed. The
special features of Montreal Protocol operations left the project without a clear sectoral ‘home’
for much of the period and was given limited management priority, especially by the responsible
sector unit. An unfortunate consequence was of delays in addressing needed follow-up actions

                                               23
after supervision missions and an apparent disinterest in the operation by sector management.
The panel viewed the task team’s performance in maintaining the project in such an environment
as all the more commendable.?
81.     Lastly, the flexibility exercised by the Bank to accept extensions and increases in the
grant ceiling gave the Government of Jordan the required space to continuously adapt, reinforce
and implement its overall strategy to successfully achieve full CFC and halon phase-out during
the stepped Montreal Protocol compliance period.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
82.    Rating: Satisfactory.
83.    Based on the Bank performance for Quality at Entry and Quality of Supervision as both
Satisfactory, overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance
84.    Overall Rating: is Satisfactory based on a combination of the two assessments below.
(a) Government Performance
85.    Rating: Satisfactory for MOPIC and MoENV.
86.     The Government was strongly committed to the project throughout the project period.
For example, Jordan began establishing its policies as part of the initial CP and established an
NOU/PIU within GCEP to manage the local phase-out program to be the liaison with
international implementing agencies. Jordan met its first phase-out targets established under the
MP with the active assistance of the NOU. The NOU established action plans with the MLF
Implementing and Bilateral Agencies (the World Bank, UNIDO and GTZ/GIZ), developed and
implemented training and awareness programs and other technical support actions to assist local
enterprises.
87.     Most critically, Jordan formulated policies and disseminated instructions for controlling
and monitoring ODS. These instructions were distributed to all concerned entities within Jordan
for implementation. Training of Customs officers were completed to ensure compliance with the
instructions. The instructions were regularly updated to introduce a quota system on imports of
CFC and CFC-based equipment and later HCFCs, and to ban import of halons and ODS
solvents, and eventually CFCs, according to the phase-out targets presented herein.
88.     The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Initially, the Project
experienced slow disbursement, as the NOU was at its inception and needed to become familiar
with both policies and procedures of the MP regime and the World Bank. However, by mid-
project implementation, the Government’s capacity and experience were largely augmented and
it made significant progress in overcoming these early challenges. Appropriate levels of review
and approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up was observed, and
expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred; and documentation was
maintained properly for periodic review.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
89.    Rating: Highly Satisfactory for the National Ozone Unit (NOU)



                                               24
90.     A dedicated NOU within MoEnv (established at the Cabinet level in 2003 and formerly
part of the MMRAE) was responsible for this project, serving as the PIU, from its inception.
NOU was highly engaged and efficient in dealing with country implementation and with the
program more generally as one of the more active members of the MLF ExCom for a long time.
The unit, which was small, relied on specialized consultants for much of the technical work, and
had adequate monitoring and accountability mechanisms and fiduciary controls. The NOU was
very effective in carrying out all aspects of project management, such as financial management,
procurement arrangements, reporting activities, and disbursements:
91.     Financial Management. The FM and disbursement function were handled by a team,
consisting of a part time financial consultant and a full time Accountant from MoEnv. The
financial consultant had the competency and qualification to handle the FM and disbursement
function yet there were at times discrepancies between the accounts of the Recipient and that of
the Bank. Flow of funds with the Bank was smooth with no major interruptions. All audit reports
under the project were submitted to the Bank with unqualified audit opinions. The reports were
submitted on time to the Bank except those related to the years from 2000 to 2003, which were
submitted late.
92.    Procurement. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services under the project
followed the Procurement Guidelines “Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits?.
Procured goods were compliant with the technical specifications and conditions of usage.
Although the NOU did not have a procurement officer during implementation of the project, the
procurement function was well handled by the NOU.
6. LESSONS LEARNED
93.     World Bank MP Operations has followed the phased reductions of various groups of
ODS per the Montreal Protocol and in accordance with MLF policy and as such required an
extensive period of time to eliminate relevant ODS while putting into place institutional
arrangements and regulatory measures to control and monitor ODS use and elimination in
relevant sectors. This longer term commitment to implementation, together with the ExCom’s
incremental delivery of grants according to intermediate objectives, led to the creation of MP-
specific Bank operational policy and procedures (i.e. the “umbrella? project modality). Projects
falling under OP/BP 10.21 have performed satisfactorily in terms of development and global
environmental objectives while resulting in implementation periods of up to 15 to 17 years.
94.     Active national involvement at the related international forums proved an important
success factor. These international exchanges provided critical exposure to global objectives
setting as well as variances in project implementation from one country to another.
95.     The special features of Montreal Protocol operations, which work with specific industries
while contributing to global environmental benefits, often strand MP projects without a clear
sectoral home and commensurate management priority. The recent regrouping of sectors within
MNSSD to establish a MENA Energy and Environment sector unit will reinforce needed Bank-
internal linkages between energy efficiency and global natural resource asset management.
96.     Given the very specialized skills needed for this type of operation, it is necessary to
cultivate appropriate national and/or regional consultant skills for repeated use. A simple project
design of national policy support and subproject private sector implementation responded to
clear and realistic objectives and thus contributed to smooth project implementation and


                                                25
successful outcomes. The Head of the National Ozone Unit, as Project Manager for this 17-year
project, provided strong, consistent, and dedicated leadership; his longevity and presence in the
national arena as well as in the international community resulted in Jordan being considered as
an important regional and international voice for Article 5 countries in the field of ozone
protection.
97.     A fuller alignment between MP guidelines and Bank environmental safeguards guidelines
should be considered, as some differences still appear to exist between the two. At times, this
results in lack of adequate funding for addressing potential liabilities that the beneficiary
enterprises might cause, e.g. long-term CFC disposal. The Safeguards Review process for the
World Bank Group is expected to will align Bank safeguard policies with IFC Performance
Standards, which will subsequently strengthen Bank Group safeguards design and supervision
with respect to worker health and safety as well as working with private industries as
beneficiaries.
7. COMMENTS ON ISSUES RAISED BY BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
AGENCIES/PARTNERS
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
98.    The NOU reviewed an initial (October 2012), then a revised final (May 2013) draft of the
ICR and provided comments on both versions, which were then incorporated into the final
version of the ICR. The Government’s own ICR, which documents the implementation
experiences and the lessons learned, is presented in Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers
99.    NA
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
100.   NA




                                               26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                Components             Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                     Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD     Appraisal
                                        millions)         millions)
Component 1: Technology Transfer and               3.2              4.5          141%
Engineering Assistance
Component 2: Project Implementation                0.3              1.1          367%
Capacity Development
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                               3.5*              5.6          160%
Project Preparation Fund                           0.1              0.3          300%
Front-end fee IBRD
Total Financing Required                           3.6              5.9         164%
*Umbrella amounts are shown given that ExCom approvals were received primarily during the
life of the project.
(b) Financing
          Source of Funds             Type of Co-     Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                       financing       Estimate     Estimate    Appraisal
                                                        (USD         (USD
                                                       millions)    millions)
Borrower                                            0.00         0.00         .00
Montreal Protocol Investment Fund                   3.80         6.00         .00




                                              27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Table 2.1 summarizes subproject qualitative outputs, amounts disbursed, and subproject starting and closing dates:
 Sub-Project Name:                            Project Description, including Enterprise Names                                  Total Grant   Appraisal &   Proposed &
                                                                                                                                 Amount      Sub-project     Actual
                                                                                                                                Disbursed    GA Signed     Completion
                                                                                                                                               Dates          Dates
                                                                 Foam Phase-Out Subproject Investments
Umbrella project for     The Five Star company manufactured foams for the furniture and bedding industries as well            $66,000.00      10/01/95      04/01/95
conversion to CFC-       as produced its own line of matresses and selected methylene chloride as the replacement                             11/01/95      03/01/98
free technology at       blowing agent. The enterprise phased out 20 MT of CFC-11 as planned. The risk of the
Five Star                beneficiary returning to the use of CFC is small because MC is cheaper and because of the
Polyurethane Foam        Government’s policies regarding CFC (in conjunction with its national CFC phaseout plan).
Factory                  The project design and the conversion technology were suitable for the enterprise – the
                         project did not change the foaming production line and equipment, rather it adapted the
                         enterprise to the use of MC on existing equipment.

                                                    Five Star Polyurethane Foam Factory
Three foam-sector        Complete phase-out of 114 tons of CFC-11 achieved as approved by the three companies                 $368.500.00     09/01/95      09/01/95
enterprises (Arab        covered under the umbrella project. As regulations have been established for CFCs                                    10/01/95      12/01/02
Foam, Jordan             import/export (licensing system), there is no way for the beneficiary enterprise to return to
Plastics, National       the use of CFC. Enterprises procured more items than included in the project document and
Foam)                    the additional costs were fully financed by the companies. All three companies were satisfied
                         with the new technology and no complaints were recorded.

                                              Arab Foam, Jordan Plastics and National Foam
Conversion to CFC-       The CFC phase-out of 50 MT ODP was achieved as approved. The enterprise successfully                 $347,855.00     03/01/97      12/01/98
free technology in the   converted to LPG technology and destroyed its CFC-based equipment. It was not technically                            11/01/97      02/01/01
manufacture of           and financially possible to retrofit the extruder as planned for the project. The enterprise
extruded Polysterene     therefore provided more counterpart funding than expected in order to buy and install a new
at Al-Hussam Plastics    extruder and production line. Although there was some delay which could be attributed to
Company                  shortage of finance and installing a new production line, the beneficiary made every effort to
                         provide and cover the extra costs, supported by technically qualified staff.

                                                           Al-Hussam Plastics Company
Conversion to CFC-       Complete phaseout of 30 tons CFC-11 was achieved. Because of the introduction of a                   $112,500.00     03/01/97      11/01/98
free technology in the   licensing system, no return to the use of CFCs is possible. Baybars decided to install a new                         11/01/97      05/01/02
manufacture of           production unit based on Maxfoam technology to allow improvement of the foam quality
flexible slabstock PUF   and yield. The change of equipment however was not MLF eligible. MLF funding was
(box foam) at Baybars    therefore restricted to eligible items (ventilation, critical metering systems, trials, training).
                         The technology did not change and remained MC. Project completion was delayed to allow
                         the recipient to gain more experience under guidance of technicians provided by the
                         equipment supplier as well through the Bank. Baybars received extensive safety training that
                         included process monitoring, formulation prediction, safety standards and emergency

                                                                                         28
 Sub-Project Name:                           Project Description, including Enterprise Names                               Total Grant   Appraisal &   Proposed &
                                                                                                                             Amount      Sub-project     Actual
                                                                                                                            Disbursed    GA Signed     Completion
                                                                                                                                           Dates          Dates
                        response.
                                                            Baybars Foam Factory
Fathai Abu Arja         Fathei Abu Arja & Partners Industrial Co. (FAA) (a systems house) and its customers               $816,901.00     06/01/97      12/01/99
Umbrella project        (SMEs) consumed 115 ODP tones of CFC-11 at baseline conditions (1996). Actual phase-                              11/01/97      12/01/00
                        out was 105.4taking into account the ODP of the replacement, HCFC-141b(an interim
                        technology). The technology chosen was appropriate for the application at the time. The
                        thermally critical rigid foam insulation application must maintain the insulation properties in
                        the final products, and HCFC-141b was the only applicable technology that was
                        commercially and technically available at the time to provide the required physical properties
                        in the final product at small enterprises.
                        .
                                              Fathei Abu Arja & Partners Industrial Co. (FAA)
                                                                Aerosol Phase-Out Sub-Project Investments
Jordan Chemical         The project proceeded smoothly according to plan except for a small delay in equipment             $203,328.00     6/01/96      10/01/97
Product                 delivery and commissioning. In fact, this was the only problem encountered during the                             12/01/96      12/01/98
                        implementation of the project, as some experience had been gained from the Haddad project.
                        Both projects were similar. The project was completed without any significant problems and
                        the targeted phaseout was achieved.

                                                     Jordan Chemical Product (JCPCO)
Jordan Antiseptic and   Phase-out achieved as planned and baseline liquid filler and crimper were destroyed. Some          $65,721.00      6/01/96      10/01/97
Detergents              delays were encountered due to frequent management changes at the enterprise and because                          12/01/96      12/01/98
                        it had some difficulties in supplier selection.

                                                Jordan Antiseptic and Detergents (JADICO)
Jordan Industrial       The project was designed to phase-out the use of CFC-12 in aerosol filling. Due to the             $102,855.00    06/01/96      10/01/97
Petrochemical           reduction in grant funding by the ExCom which did not recognize it as a central filler, the                       12/01/96      10/01/03
                        company had to finance nearly half the cost. Due to safety requirements, the company had to
                        relocate from its original address to an industrial area outside Amman. The financial and
                        logistical issues both contributed to substantial delay in project implementation and
                        completion.

                                                 Jordan Industrial Petrochemical (JIPCO)
Substitution of CFC-        The project was designed in accordance with best practice for MLF funded aerosol              $76,676.00     04/01/00      01/01/03
12 for HAPs for              projects converting from CFC-12 to HAPs. The new equipment was consistent with the                           10/01/00      08/01/05
perfumes and                 specifications used for similar projects and there were no changes during
cosmetics at the             implementation. Abu Shakra Factory converted its product line from CFC-12 to HAPs.
aerosol plant Abu            As the HAP is significantly cheaper than CFC-12 and CFC-12 was phased out, there is
Shakra Factory               no risk that the company will return to the use of CFC-12. In addition, the company
                             signed a sub-grant agreement with the NOU which prevents it from using CFC-12 and


                                                                                      29
 Sub-Project Name:                           Project Description, including Enterprise Names                               Total Grant   Appraisal &   Proposed &
                                                                                                                             Amount      Sub-project     Actual
                                                                                                                            Disbursed    GA Signed     Completion
                                                                                                                                           Dates          Dates
                             requires baseline equipment destruction.


                                                              Abu Shakra Factory
Substitution of CFC-    Project was designed in accordance with best practice for MLF funded aerosol project               $49,539.00     04/01/00      01/01/03
12 for HAPs at the      converting from CFC-12 to HAPs. There were no changes during implementation. Due to                               10/01/00      02/01/05
aerosol plant of Arab   the operational savings when converting from the use of CFC-12 to HAPs, the company had
Chemical Industries     to finance a small part of the eligible incremental cost of conversion. The local price of
                        HAPs was somewhat higher than anticipated by the MLF, thus savings in operating cost did
                        not initially materialize to the extent expected.
                                                           Arab Chemical Industries
                                                                   Halon-Specific Subproject Investments
Halon Management        The project led to a comprehensive national halon management program to support phase-            $382,250.00      8/01/00      12/01/03
Program, Halon          out of halon manufacturing conversion projects. It aimed at eliminating use of and                                04/01/02      12/01/07
Recovery, Recycling     recovering halons from non-essential halon fire protection applications, limiting the phase-
and Banking             out costs to users and promoting the use of non-ODS fire protection alternatives. It also
                        assisted critical and essential halon users in developing their halon phase-out programs and
                        ensured halon supply to remaining essential uses. Reclamation equipment and storage tanks
                        were provided for a central facility that still exists and holds halon and unwanted CFC.
Terminal halon-1211     Subproject covered all remaining halon equipment manufacturing enterprises in the country,        $563,000.00        N/A        03/01/04
and halon-1301 phase-   including a number of small fire equipment companies located outside the Amman area.                               4/01/01      01/01/08
out umbrella project    Extinguisher manufacturers were provided assistance to convert to ABC powder and CO2
for fire equipment      fire extinguishers production, and technical assistance and training. The halon-1211
manufacturers and       enterprises covered were: Jordan Factory for Fire Fighting & Safety Equipment; Arab
suppliers in Jordan     Factory for Fire Fighting & Safety Equipment; National Concorde; Jordan Est. for Safety
converting to ABC       Equipment ; Al Rafeed Est for General Safety; Amman Safety Est.; Rostom Nalbardian Est.;
powder, CO2, HFC-       Al Masya General Safety; Economical & Social Association for Retired Service Men and
227ea and inert gases   Women; Mohammed Abassi & Sons; Nahleh Supply and Trade Est; Al Masya General
as substitutes          Safety; Jordan Armed Forces; Royal Jordanian Airlines; Civil Defence Directorate,
                        Maintenance and Service; Al Ahleyaa for Public Safety. The halon-1301 enterprises covered
                        were: Jordan Factory for Firefighting and Safety Equipment Co.; Jordan Est. for Safety
                        Equipment; National Concorde; Jordan Armed Force; Royal Jordanian Airlines; Civil
                        Defense; Nakeeb Nassar Co.; Jordanian Est for Trading and Engineering Equipment
                                                                          Jordan Chiller Replacement
Jordan Chiller               The Jordan Chiller Replacement Project was a component of the Global Chiller                $716,056.00     09/30/09      06/30/10
Replacement Project           Replacement Project approved at the 47th MLF ExCom Meeting under the World Bank.                            12/20/12      12/31/12
                              The objectives were to 1) permanently eliminate CFC-use in chillers; and 2) reduce
                              emissions of greenhouse gases through increased energy efficiency. The Jordan project
                              achieved the objectives by accelerating the replacement of all 20 CFC-based based
                              chillers in the country with more energy-efficient chillers through a financial incentive


                                                                                      30
 Sub-Project Name:                           Project Description, including Enterprise Names                                Total Grant   Appraisal &   Proposed &
                                                                                                                              Amount      Sub-project     Actual
                                                                                                                             Disbursed    GA Signed     Completion
                                                                                                                                            Dates          Dates
                             of 30% of the new chiller costs. 15 of 20 chillers were replaced with support from the
                             project; the remaining 5 were replaced by the building owners.

                                                              National ODS Phase-Out Plan Investment Support
National ODS phase      Projects and technical assistance activities were conducted to phase out 20 ODP tons of            $590,000.00     09/01/00      11/01/99
out plan: aerosol,      CFCs in the aerosol sector, 12 ODP tons in the foam sector, 32 tons of CFC in the MAC                              01/01/04      11/01/99
foam, MAC service       servicing sector, and 7.7 tons of CTC in the solvent sector. Technical assistance was to
and solvent sectors     ensure policies were implemented and that relevant agencies had the capability to respond
                        satisfactorily to the tasks set forth in the phase out plan and to ensure timely compliance with
                        all targets. Additional training for customs to supplement the training already implemented
                        was included.
                                                            Institutional Strengthening (non-Investment) Related
Renewal of              Funds were not be released until a report of progress and an articulated plan of future actions     $113,333.00      N/A         05/01/99
Institutional           as required under decision 19/29 were submitted to the Secretariat.                                                  N/A         05/01/99
Strengthening
Renewal of              Phase entailed.monitoring investment projects in halon, aerosol and commercial refrigeration        $113,333.00      N/A         08/01/99
Institutional           sectors, collection and verifying of consumption data, awareness programs; implementation                            N/A         07/01/01
Strengthening (phase    of approved projects; government and industrial consultation on issues to be discussed at the
II)                     Meeting of the Parties; coordinating with other government offices to enforce the ban on
                        import of CFC compressors and other equipment containing CFCs; establish a quota system
                        for imported CFCs; financial incentives for industry to convert to non-CFC technology; and
                        progress reports of approved projects, and publish articles related to ozone layer protection
                        activities in newspapers.
Renewal of the          Continuing the implementation of ODS phase-out program, preparation of a country program            $113,333.00      N/A         08/01/03
Institutional           update as the basis for a national strategy for achieving a complete phase out of the                                N/A         06/01/04
Strengthening Project   remaining use of CFCs in the foam, commercial refrigeration, medical products and solvent
                        sectors; supervision and implementation of investment projects including the halon and
                        methyl bromide phase out programs; continuing the implementation of public awareness
                        activities; and report to the Multilateral Fund and Ozone Secretariats according to relevant
                        decisions.
Extension of            Continue to follow up and supervise the activities related to the implementation of the RMP         $147,333.00      N/A         06/01/05
Institutional           through distribution of recovery and recycling equipment, following up the phase out of                              N/A         06/01/05
Strengthening Project   TCA use in the Air Force and other workshops, coordinating the preparation of agreements
                        for the implementation of the national ODS phase out plan, establishing a halon bank and
                        conducting public awareness programs.
Extension of the        Continue the coordination of the national CFC phase out plan in close consultation with the         $147,333.00      N/A         07/01/09
Institutional           World Bank and UNIDO; assist in the ratification of the Beijing Amendment; renewed                                   N/A         09/01/09
Strengthening Project   efforts in the full enforcement of the licensing system and a possible review of this system
(phase VII)             and further strengthening of the cooperation with the Customs department to fight illegal
                        trade; continue with MB phase-out activities expected to result in the phase out of 80 percent


                                                                                       31
 Sub-Project Name:                           Project Description, including Enterprise Names                             Total Grant   Appraisal &   Proposed &
                                                                                                                           Amount      Sub-project     Actual
                                                                                                                          Disbursed    GA Signed     Completion
                                                                                                                                         Dates          Dates
                        of MB consumption in the country; continue implementing awareness activities; and data
                        reporting to the Fund and Ozone Secretariats.
Extension of the        Implementation of the remaining CFC phase-out activities in the servicing sector, including      $110,500.00      N/A         12/01/10
Institutional           the chiller sub-sector; initiate implementation of HCFC-related activities including                              N/A         03/01/11
Strengthening Project   preparation of the HPMP, public awareness and reviewing and updating HCFC legislation;
(phase VIII)            pursue the possibilities for ODS destruction; annual monitoring, reporting and public
                        awareness activities; and data reporting to the Fund and Ozone Secretariats.
Extension of the        Creating an enabling environment to complete the HPMP, to receive endorsement by key             $147,333.00      N/A         12/01/12
Institutional           stakeholders and to begin its implementation; prioritizing phase-out actions and determining                      N/A         12/30/12
Strengthening Project   appropriate regulations and policies, including a quota schedule; closing all CFC-based
(phase IX)              activities except monitoring and possibly CFC destruction activities; enhancing its ability to
                        assure Montreal Protocol compliance; continuing annual monitoring, reporting and public
                        awareness activities; data reporting to the Fund and Ozone Secretariats.




                                                                                      32
Table 2.2 summarizes key subproject data under Part A of the Project (Component 1) including phase-out achieved.

                                           Subproject Title                                               ODS Phased       New        Consumption Consumption Date of MLF       Date       Approved        Grant        Grant Cost    Additional Overall Cost MLF Cost
                                                                                                             Out        Alternative     ODP to be ODP Phased    ExCom        Completed     Funding       Disbursed     Effectiveness Counterpart Effectiveness Effectiveness
                                                                                                                                       Phased Out     Out      Approval       (Actual)      (US$)          (US$)         (US$/kg)      Funding     (US$/kg)     Threshold
                                                                                                                                      per Proposal                                                                                                               (US$/kg)
Aerosol conversion at Jordan Industrial Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (JIPCO)                                    CFC          HAPs                    98          98       Oct-96       Oct-03       102,855        102,855       1.05           90,720      1.98          4.40
Aerosol conversion at Jordan Antiseptics and Detergents Ind. Co. Ltd. (JADICO)                            CFC          HAPs                    20          20       Oct-96       Dec-98        65,720         65,720       3.29           20,278      4.30          4.40
Aerosol conversion at Jordan Chemical Products Co. Ltd. (JCPCO)                                           CFC          HAPs                    61          61       Oct-96       Dec-98       203,328        203,328       3.33              -        3.33          4.40
Substitution of CFC-12 for HAPs for perfumes and cosmetics at the aerosol plant Abu Shakra Factory        CFC          HAPs                    18          18       Jul-00       Aug-03        76,676         76,676       4.26           28,224      5.83          4.40
Substitution of CFC-12 for HAPs at the aerosol plant of Arab Chemical Industries                          CFC          HAPs                    13          13       Jul-00       Feb-05        49,539         49,539       3.81            4,331      4.14          4.40
Umbrella project for conversion to CFC-free technology at three flexible polyurethane foam factories at
                                                                                                          CFC          MC                     114         114      Dec-94        Dec-02       368,500        368,500       3.23           22,680      3.43          6.23
Arab Foam, Jordan Plastics, National Foam
Umbrella project for conversion to CFC-free technology at Five Star Polyurethane Foam Factory             CFC          MC                      20          20       Jul-95       Mar-98        66,000         66,000       3.30              -         3.30         6.23
Conversion to CFC-free technology in the manufacture of extruded polysterene at Al Hussam                 CFC          Butane                  50          50      May-97        Feb-01       347,855        347,855       6.96          469,695      16.35         8.22
Conversion to CFC-free technology in the manufacture of flexible slabstock PUF (box foam) at Baybars      CFC          MC                      30          30      May-97        Dec-02       112,500        112,500       3.75           23,000      4.52          6.23
Conversion to CFC-free technology in the manufacture of rigid polyurethane foam (miscellaneous
                                                                                                          CFC          HCFC-141b             105.4       105.4     Nov-97        Dec-99       824,869        816,901       7.75          247,369      10.10         7.83
applications) at Fathei Abu Arja
Halon management programme, halon recovery, recycling and banking                                         Halon        Multiple                 0           0      Nov-99        Dec-07       382,250        382,250       n/a               -        n/a           n/a
Terminal halon-1211 and halon-1301 phaseout umbrella project for fire equipment manufacturers and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1.33          1.48
suppliers in Jordan converting to ABC powder, CO2, HFC-227ea and inert gases as substitutes               Halon        Multiple              421.8       421.8     Dec-00         Jan-08      563,000        563,000       1.33              -
National ODS phase out plan: aerosol, foam, MAC service and solvent sectors                               CFC          Multiple              157.4       157.4     Nov-02        Nov-09       590,000        590,000       3.75              -        3.75          n/a
Jordan Chiller Replacement*                                                                                            HCFC-22/
                                                                                                          CFC                                   0           0      Nov-02        Nov-09      1,000,000       716,056       n/a          1,414,078     n/a           n/a
                                                                                                                       HFC-134a
                                                                                                                                           1108.6      1108.6                               4,753,092     4,461,180                    2,320,375


* Approximately 4 MT of CFCs were recovered and stored, however under MLF approvals of chiller replacement projects, this consumption was
not counted.
HAPs = hydrocarbon aerosol propellant
MC = methylene chloride
TCA= 1,1,1-trichloroethane




                                                                                                                                  33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1.       The project design did not include any economic or financial analysis as a baseline. However,
the MLF ExCom has a methodology for evaluating the efficiency of investment subprojects through the
calculation of cost-effectiveness (CE) ratios. CE is the amount of MLF grant per unit weight of ODS
phased-out in ODP kg. More specifically, CE values are found by dividing the total funding levels
approved by the total ODP MT phase-out, and then dividing by 1,000 to obtain CEs in $/ODP kg terms.
2.       Approved CE is negotiated with the Secretariat of the MLF on a case-by-case basis against
established sub-sector CE thresholds. For institutional strengthening and other non-investment activities,
as well as chiller replacement, CE is not used as a criterion.
3.      The table consolidates projected/approved with actual MLF funding disbursed, as in most cases
(except Fathei Abu Arja) these two values are the same. Similarly, the total projected and actual achieved
total ODP phase-out is the same in all cases.
4.       In the early 2000s, CE calculated on an individual enterprise basis was no longer the principle
approach for determining funding allocation, reflecting the less prescriptive structure of the national
phase-out plan versus the subproject by subproject approach. This created country flexibility to distribute
funds based on circumstance and needs in order to achieve the most cost-efficient aggregate reductions in
ODS consumption based on private enterprise and sub-project readiness. To facilitate negotiation of
these large-scale country projects (the Philippines, Malaysia, and Thailand) with the MLF, an average CE
value of $6.64/ODP kg was negotiated by the World Bank based on historical CE averages across various
manufacturing subsectors in the countries in question. When Jordan CE values, at the sub-project, sector,
and aggregate level, are compared against this benchmark, Jordan performs below the expected
benchmark values for CE in this time period.
                     Sector                                            APPROVED / ACTUAL
                                                     Total Phase-     MLF Funding    Average CE (US $/ODP kg)
                                                    Out ODP MT)      Approved and
                                                     projections       OTF Actual
                                                     and actuals    Disbursement (US
                                                                           $)
FOAM
Five Star Polyurethane Foam Factory                         22.00               $66,000                    3.30
Arab Foam, Jordan Plastics and National Foam               114.00              $368,500                    3.23
Al-Hussam Plastics Company                                  50.00              $347,855                    6.96
Baybars Foam Factory                                        30.00              $112,500                    3.75
Fathei Abu Arja & Partners Industrial Co. (FAA)                     $824,869 / $816,901
                                                           105.40                                    7.75 - 7.83
                                                                     (approved / actual)
                                    Foam Sector                            $1,719,724 /
                                                            321.4                                   5.32 – 5.35
                                                                            $1,711,756
AEROSOL
Jordan Chemical Product                                      N/A                   N/A                     N/A
Jordan Antiseptic and Detergents                             N/A                   N/A                     N/A
Jordan Industrial Petrochemical                             98.00             $102,855                     1.05
Abu Shakra Factory                                          18.00              $76,676                     4.26
Arab Chemical Industries                                    13.00              $49,539                     3.81
                                   Aerosol Sector          129.00             $229,070                     1.77
HALON
Halon Umbrella Program                                     421.80             $536,000                     1.33




                                                           34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
             Names                             Title                      Unit
Lending
Bill H. Rahill                  Global Ozone Operations Coordinator      ENVGC
Josephine Masanque               Sr Financial Management Specialist      OPCFM
Ellen Tynan                           Senior Operations Analyst          ENVGC
Erik Pedersen                      Senior Environmental Engineer         ENVGC
Geno Nardini                        Aerosol Specialist Consultant
Bert Veenendaal                        Foam Expert Consultant

Supervision/ICR
Tracy Hart                         Senior Environmental Specialist       MNSEN
Faisal Abdulrahaem Al-Hothali      Senior Environmental Specialist        ENV
Raffaello Cervigni                  Lead Environmental Specialist        MNSEN
Mary-Ellen Foley                         Operations Officer              ENVMP
Viraj Vithoontien                          MP Coordinator                ENVGC
Steve Gorman                            GEF/MP Coordinator               ENVGC
Lina Fares                          Senior Procurement Specialist        MNAPR
Velayutham Vijayaverl               Senior Procurement Specialist        MNAPR
Chandrasekar Govindarajalu             Senior Energy Specialist          MNSEG
Rima Abdul-Amir Koteiche         Sr Financial Management Specialist      MNAFM
Josephine Masanque               Sr Financial Management Specialist      OPCFM
Jad Raji Mazahreh                Sr.Financial Management Specialist      MNAFM
Indra Raja                                Program Assistant              MNSSD
Diana C. El Masri                             Consultant                 MNAFM
Erik Pedersen                                 Consultant                 MNSEN
Ghada Abdel Rahman Shaqour                    Consultant                 MNSHD




                                          35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
    Stage of Project
    Cycle                   No. of staff
                                             USD Thousands (including travel and consultant costs)
                            weeks
    Lending4
    FY97                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY98                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY99                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY00                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY01                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY02                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY03                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY04                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY05                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY06                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY07                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    FY08                                  0.00                                                         0.00
    Total:                                0.00                                                         0.00
    Supervision/ICR
    FY97                                 0.00                                                           0.00
    FY98                                 0.00                                                      14,282.39
    FY99                                 0.00                                                      51,275.07
    FY00                                 9.47                                                      60,960.86
    FY01                                10.07                                                      58,514.78
    FY02                                 8.44                                                      52,845.06
    FY03                                 8.10                                                      57,976.75
    FY04                                 4.55                                                      30,065.85
    FY05                                13.86                                                      83,929.42
    FY06                                 8.36                                                      35,128.46
    FY07                                 9.63                                                      46,156.73
    FY08                                 2.29                                                      10,283.03
    FY09                                17.50                                                      96,837.39
    FY10                                21.14                                                     106,474.67
    FY11                                26.39                                                     197,592.54
    FY12                                15.06                                                      74,577.61
    FY13                                 7.17                                                      45,445.89
    Total:                             162.03                                                   1,022,346.50



4
    SAP project report information is does not reflect any Lending codes used in this project


                                                      36
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
1.      The overall objective of the ODS2 project was to assist Government of Jordan in phasing out
the use of ODS through the following components
Component 1: Technology Transfer and Engineering Assistance
2.      The acquisition of non-ODS technologies to the private sector with focus on the implementation
of subprojects at low cost (The subprojects related to foams, aerosols, and halons).
Component 2: Project Implementation Capacity Development
3.       Funds were provided to continue to support the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the project
and the executive arm of the National Ozone Committee (NOC), which is the coordinating body that has
overall responsibility for implementing the recommendations of the Country Program (CP). These funds
allowed the NOU to hire a full-time staff for the PIU, a technical specialist, and cover salary incentive to
the PIU staff. These funds allowed (i) the PIU to provide technical support to enhance the capacity of
recipients to deal with ozone protection issues and, carry out: (a) technical awareness ;(b) monitoring of
the consumption and use of ODS (c) funding the phasing-out of the uses of ODS; and (d) institutional
measures for ozone protection. (ii) Purchase of office equipment and operational costs of the PIU.
4.       Main Beneficiaries: These enterprises benefiting were the foam, aerosol, halons, industrial
refrigerant companies, as well as there was a component for the establishment of the Halon Bank
5.       Key Indicators achieved were: ODS Phase-out; policy measures; cost-effective priority
investments. Complete phase-out the import of ODS was achieved by January 2010. For halons, the
freeze started in 2002.
6.      Project Schedule: The project suffered from frequent number of extensions resulting in closing
date extension to December 31, 2013. The Grant Agreement was amended three times to reach $6.0 M
7.       MoEnv/NOU Assessment of Project Design: Project design was clear, having mainly two
components: grant incentives to private sector industries for ODS phase out and capacity building.
Subprojects had a clear target to terminate the use of ODS and meet all relevant national environmental,
safety, and health standards. The project risks were small.
8.       Government Commitment was high to the objectives of the project and supported by policy and
institutional measures (approved the licensing system for ODS user, established ODS import monitoring
procedures, and provided authority to recommend ODS price increase through special tax imposed on
CFCs, to levels that encourage users to switch to the low-priced ODS substitutes). The Ministry of
Planning (MOP) trained the NOU staff in the processing of withdrawal applications; supported the public
awareness campaigns and in obtaining Government's approval of the required legislation
9.       NOU views as Negative (i) Delays in the chiller component of the project, both due to MLF
funding as well as construction delays and protracted selection of location for positioning of the new
chillers by AIG, the primary contractors of the new Queen Alia International Airport. (ii) High turnover
of WB Task Team Leaders (TTLs).
10.     M&E: ODS2 followed the MP Executive Committee design and reporting requirements as well
as the World Bank Operational Manual. The NOU regularly collected data and reported the status of
contracts and consumption of ozone every six months and sent to the Bank for review. Data was
regularly evaluated and used for decision-making on certain activities.
11.      Safeguards: The project was reviewed and cleared as per the Bank’s OP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment Procedure) by the Regional Environment Division and given a B classification. NOU staff
and stakeholders however could have benefited more from funds allocated under ODS2 project cost for
safety training as well as worker health and safety measures. NOU would like to specifically earmark


                                                    37
fund under ODS3 to go directly for the provision of HSE training and environmental compliance with the
World Bank requirements. As for the CFC-based chillers taken offline and due to the weak demand for
recovered CFCs the CFCs are remain in the hands of the Government until funding can be identified to
have them shipped and destroyed.
12.     Financial management: NOU maintained proper finance accounts and records and submitted
annual audit reports, and IFRs on time and had a smooth flow of funds. As for the discrepancy between
NOU records and the World Bank client connection of $235 NOU view is that these should be considered
as negligible and can be attributed to currency exchange differences.
13.     Procurement: Although procurement support was provided by WB staff under ODS2, the NOU
is requesting that one of its staff members be assigned the task of procurement oversight and be trained by
the World Bank on procurement guidelines.
Assessment of Outcomes:
14.     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation: The ODS2 objectives and design were
relevant to Jordan’s economic and environmental protection policies. However NOU would like to
emphasize that special provisions should be in place in the sub agreements for ODS3 such that for non-
responsive stakeholders control measure be formulated in the agreement for non-responsiveness so as not
to judge NOU for any project implementation delays if caused by a stakeholder when it is beyond the
control of NOU.
Achievements of Global Environmental Objectives:
15.      For Component 1: These were in completely phasing out the import of chlorofluorocarbons
(CFCs) and halon one year ahead of the MP deadline where the majority of enterprises adopted
alternatives that are not only ozone-friendly but have no global warming potential, long before the linkage
between ozone and climate was recognized in these sectors. Also, the project also led to the replacement
of the 20 CFC-based chillers in the country in order to eliminate the last major source of CFC demand
used in servicing.
16.     Project achievements for Component 2: Jordan fully met its MP obligations through the
introduction of an ODS licensing system, establishment of ODS import monitoring procedures and
policies.
17.      On public awareness and creating demand for non-CFC and halon-based products and for the
avoidance of CFC use in servicing stationary refrigeration and mobile air-conditioning systems, the
project facilitated public awareness campaigns, gave lectures to universities and schools on ozone issues,
held technical and awareness workshops; seminars on Ozone Day, and engaged the media to report on
ozone issues.
18.     Efficiency: ODS2 project implementation was cost and time effective.
Overarching Themes, Outcomes and Impacts:
19.      (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender, and Social Development Aspects: MoEnv/NOU was able to
support the beneficiaries technically and financially through the provision of grants and technical support
which enabled them to meet national and international production and export agreements and trade
agreement and policies thus helping the beneficiaries stay in business through compliance with
international norms and regulations (which are poverty and social developmental aspects). NOU is a
majority employer of females of high technical caliber over the past 12 years.
20.    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening: The project resulted in Substantial institutional
development impact and staff capacity building
21.     Indirect global environmental benefits: The phase-out of CFCs, which have extremely high
global warming potential, contributed to significant additional global environmental benefits. Estimated

                                                    38
GWP impact based on total consumption phase-out by substance (1,109 ODP tons) is approximately 5
million tons CO2 equivalent (CO2e) avoided annually.
22.     Assessment of Bank Performance: In terms of the identification, preparation, appraisal and
Quality of Supervision of the project was satisfactory.
23.     Government of Jordan Performance (from the side of the Ministry of Planning (MOP) and
Ministry of Environment (MoEnv)): Government of Jordan performance was strong throughout the
project period (through enactment of policies to meet phase-out targets, action plans with the MLF
Implementing and Bilateral Agencies (the World Bank, UNIDO and GTZ/GIZ), and support for the
development and implementation of training and awareness programs and technical support actions to
assist local enterprises). GOJ also through MOP provided review and financial approvals for
accountability and follow-up.
Lessons Learned:
24.    The successful outcomes of ODS2 phase out program were a result of both MP/ExCom and
World Bank implementation support and active involvement of NOU and GOJ support ministries.
Recommendations:
  (i)    NOU plans to share the Safeguards Review with the ODS3 beneficiaries and ensure they actually
         implement the recommendations prior to effectiveness of the sub grants.
  (ii)   NOU could benefit from setting poverty, gender and social development aspects indicators’
         setting prior to commencement of ODS 3 so that they become part of the reporting and business
         ethics of the NOU.
  (iii) Finally NOU under ODS3 plans to continue its practice of surveying stakeholders and seeking
        their feedback for improvements and documentation of lessons learned.
  (iv) Although the NOU did not have a procurement officer during implementation of the project, the
       procurement function was well handled by the NOU. NOU could thus benefit from better
       procurement practices if for ODSIII it were to receive specialized procurement training from one
       of the WB agents
  (v)    The participation of the NOU as executing agency in international committees and meetings of
         the ExCom, provided excellent opportunities for its exposure to global objectives and regional
         cooperation.




                                                  39
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documentation
  (i)    Implementation Completion Report, ODS Phase-out Project 1, December 31, 2000
  (ii)   Technical Report, Ozone Depleting Substances Phase-Out Project
 (iii) Grant Agreement, October 6, 1995 (OTF Grant Number 22004-JO)
  (iv) World Bank Operational Policy 10.21, Investment Operations Financed by the Multilateral Fund
       for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
  (v)    Monitoring and Evaluation Guidelines for ODS Phase-out Investment Projects, October 1995
  (vi) Aide Memoires, Implementation Status Reports
 (vii) Multilateral Fund Project Completion Reports (PCRs)
 (viii) Quality Assurance Group, Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6)
  (ix) Quality Assurance Group, Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7)
  (x)    Quality Assurance Group, Quality of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1)
  (xi) Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Country Program Update and National ODS Phase-out Plan,
       September 24, 2002




                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33424
               35°E                                                 36°E                                  37°E                                           38°E                                39°E
  34°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         34°N




                      n
            Se anea
                r
              a
             er
       dit




                                                                                                       JORDAN
 Me




  33°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°N
                                       To                                     To
                                      Zefat                                 Damascus
                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                 Tiberias                                                                                                                                                                Baghdad

                                                       Um Qais
                                                           Irbid

                                                    IRBID
                                                    IRBI D                                                                                                        Ar Ruwayshid
                         AJLUN
                                                           Ajlun                 Al Mafrak
                                           River




                    JARASH                                         Jarash                                                                      MAFRAK
                                           n




                                                   Arda                                                            Mahattat al Halif
                                       Jorda




                                                   BALQA                    Az
  32°N
                                              As Salt                                                                                                                                                          32°N
                                                                            Zarka
                                                                    AMMAN                    ZARKA
                                                                                                       Azraq ash
                                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                       Shishan
                                               Madaba
                       To
                   Jerusalem
                                           MADABA                           AMMAN
                                                   Dead
                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Al Jawf
                                           Al Mazra’ah

                                                                              -
                                                                       Al Qatranah
          To                           Al Karak
       Beersheba
                                              KARAK
                                               --
                                           As Safi
  31°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°N
                                                                                                       Ard
                                           TAFILAH                                                               as
                                  At Tafilah                                                                           Sa
                                                                                                                              w
                                     -
                                         Al
                                 Rashadiyah
                                                                                                -
                                                                                               Ba’ir                              aa
                                                                                                                                         n
                               Ash Shawbak
                                                                                          MA'AN
                                    Petra
                                                                      Al Jafr
                                                                                                                                                                     0       0         50 Kilometers
                                                          Ma'an

                                                                                                                                                                     0            25                50 Miles
  30°N                                     Ra’s an Naqb                                                                                                                                                        30°N
                                                                                                                                                           38°E                                  39°E

                      AQABA
                                 Ad Disi

  To
Nuweiba
                                                                                                                                                                         JO R D A N
                               Jabal Ram
               Aqaba           (1,734 m)                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
      aba




                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                   Al Mudawwarah
 of Aq




                                                                                                                        This map was produced by                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                To                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               Al B'ir                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Gulf




                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                        any other information shown
  29°N                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 To                                     Group, any judgment on the                       RAILROADS
                                                                                Al B'ir                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            35°E                                                   36°E                                   37°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
