Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21872
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(36960)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $90 MILLION
TO
ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY
FOR A THIRD POWER PROJECT (LOAN 3696-ZIM
February 1, 2001
Energy Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Z$ 1.0 = US$ 0.0261
US$ 1.0 = Z$ 38.27
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  to June 30
(until December 31, 1998)
and thereafter
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          =      Africa Development Bank
ATAM          =      Automatic Tariff Adjustment Mechansim
EDRMP         =      Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project
ERR           =      Economic Rate of Return
HPP           =      Hwange Power Plant
HPPPE         =      Hwange Power Plant Privatization and Extension Project
IBRD          =      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           =      International Competitive Bidding
MIS           =      Management Information System
MTE           =      Ministry of Transport and Energy
RSA           =      Republic of South Africa
ZESA          =      Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZRA           =      Zambezi River Authority
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:    Ananda M. Covindassamy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Karen Rasmussen



FOR OFFICIA USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE: THIRD POWER PROJECT (LOAN 3696-ZIM)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                     8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   13
9. Partner Comments                                                                  14
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                35
Appendix 1                                                                           36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003309                                      Proj ect Name: POWER IIH
Team Leader: Karen T. Rasmussen                          TL Unit: AFTGl
ICR 7vpe: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 1, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: POWER III                                     L/C/TFNumber: 36960
Country/Department: ZIMBABWE                                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: PT - Thermal
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/15/90                               Effective: 08/05/94           08/23/94
Appraisal:  07/20/93                                 MTR: 02/02/96             02/02/96
Approval:  01/18/94                               Closing: 12/31/97            12/31/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: ZESA/ZESA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Curnent                                  At Appraisal
lVice President:     Callisto Madavo                          K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                 S. Denning
<Sector Manager:     M. Ananda Covindassamy                   David Cook
Team Leader at ICR:   Karen Rasmussen                         Robin Broadfield
ICR PrimaryAuthor:   Assefa Telahun and Karen
Rasmussen
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, 1{=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabihly: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entty:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   Original Objectives. The short-term objectives of the Project were to assist ZESA to: (i) minimize
the shortage of power supply by improving the reliability and the performance of the Hwange Power Plant;
(ii) increase the efficiency of the distribution system through loss reduction and demand management
measures, thereby satisfying unmet demand; and (iii) better manage power shortages through discriminative



load shedding measures. The long-term objectives were to: (i) facilitate the commercialization of ZESA;
and (ii) help ZESA build sustainable technical capability to promote more efficient operation and planning
of the power system.
3.1.2  The long-term objective of commercialization and corporatization of ZESA, conceived in the
Government's Development Policy relating to the power sector (Annex 1.3 of the SAR), was to be
implemented in two phases. The first phase of the study was completed during project appraisal. It
identified the immediate measures aimed at improving and sustaining the Hwange Power Plant's (HPP's)
availability and operational efficiency, and established monitorable performance targets that were to have
been committed in ZESA's fiscal year 1993/94 Operations Plan (Performance Contract). The second
phase was to be implemented in FY94/95. It identified the medium to long term steps needed to improve
efficiency. This included the restructuring of ZESA, its commercialization, and reforms to create an
enabling environment for private sector participation.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  Revised Objective. During implementation, there were no major revisions to the original objective
of the Project. The phased approach envisaged to attain the long term objectives, however, was merged to
an overall program to improve operational efficiency and bring about sector reform. This was because the
Government was not in favor of a Performance Operations Agreement, exercising instead direct ministerial
supervision over ZESA.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  Original Components. In support of the above short-term objectives, the Project was designed
with the following main components:
(Part A) The Reinforcement of the Distribution Network was designed with the main objective
of loss reduction (estimated at 7MW peak), and the subsidiary objective of providing unmet
demand when supply became available. This provided for: (i) the installation of about 50MVA
transformer capacity of 33/1 1kV distribution and 30MVA of 132/33kV substation capacity as well
as 50km of 132kV transmission line; (ii) the reinforcement of about 100km of 33kV and 75km of
I 1kV distribution lines, and the installation of 7.5MVAr capacitors; and (iii) installation of
demand management devices comprising ripple control equipment to switch off selectively major
loads pending restoration of plant outages, and under-frequency actuated load shedding devices for
peak demand management.
(Part B) The Hwange Power Plant Operations and Upgrade Component was designed with
the specific objective of improving the reliability and performance of the HPP. These were to have
been achieved through: (i) the provision of technical assistance to help in power plant management
and operations; (ii) the acquisition of materials and spares and proprietary maintenance service
contracts; (iii) the provision of services and equipment for major overhauls of 5 of the 6 generating
units (Stage I consists of 4xl2OMW generating units and Stage II consists of 2x220MW
generating units); and (iv) upgrading the capacity of the HPP's cooling systems including
construction of an additional cooling tower, replacing the outdated pneumatic process control
system of the Stage I units, and improving instrumentation and monitoring;
(Part C) The Design of the Hwange Power Plant Extension was to have examined the
- 2 -



feasibility of, and updated the design, cost estimates and bid documents for the HPP Stage III
extension (two new generating units - 7 and 8);
(Part D) The Mechanical and Electrical Workshops provided for the acquisition of equipment
handling cranes and electrical plant and testing equipment, tools and machinery;
(Part E) The Vehicles component provided for the acquisition of heavy-duty vehicles and
specialized equipment for distribution works, including pick-ups, 4-wheel drive trucks; and
(Part F) The Management Information System (MIS) component provided for the acquisition
of computer hardware and software to implement ZESA's MIS strategy, including technical
assistance to strengthen MIS operations.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1  Revised Components. IBRD's share of financing for the Distribution Component (Part A of the
Project ) was reduced because AfDB funding was made available for the urgently needed reconductoring
and the increase in distribution transformer capacity envisaged in the original scope of the Project.
3.4.2  The changes for the Hwange Component (Part B) were the extension of the Process Control to
Stage II Units (5 and 6), and increases to the cooling capacity of the cooling tower financed under the
Loan. The former addition is a follow-up of the concern noted in the SAR on the longer term availability of
spares for the solid state design of Stage II's process control. Uniformity in the control system of Stages I
and II also harmonizes and facilitates the operation of the overall process control of the HPP. Following
the findings of the study of Hwange Stage III design (Part C of the Project), the increase in cooling tower
capacity was needed to help cope with the increased size of units 7 and 8 - from 220 MW each. to 330 MW
each. The scope of the MIS component, Part F of the Project, was increased to fully computerize ZESA's
operations.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1  Quality at Entry. The Project was urgently needed to cope with power shortages due to prolonged
drought in the region. The Hwange Upgrading study facilitated the design of the major component of the
Project and minimized the risk of cost overruns. The 3-year period of implementation was, however,
optimistic. It did not anticipate the complexity of upgrading an existing coal fired power plant. Nor did the
project design anticipate the significant depreciation of the Zimbabwe Dollar against foreign currencies
(Appendix 1, item 7). Also, procurement problems were not expected to substantially delay the
implementation period (Annex 1, item 1). The objective and the strategies were, however, well designed
and satisfactorily implemented. The performance indicators of the SAR are well conceived and facilitated
supervision. Implementing power sector reform in a phased approach, with the first phase completed prior
to negotiations, was not considered unreasonable given the importance to urgently address the issue of
power shortages.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  The objective of improving the reliability and efficiency of the HPP was adversely affected by the
unforeseen breakdown of the Stage 1 unit transformer which was out of service for 5,111 hours in FY
- 3 -



1999, or more than 7 months. This breakdown crippled 120 MW or 13% of HPP's installed capacity, and
its repair was exacerbated by the shortage of foreign exchange. HPP's availability factor was reduced to
79% in FY 99. As such, HPP's targeted availability figure of 83% was not achieved by project closure,
mainly because of this unforeseen event. Following completion of the major overhauls required for units 5
and 6, HPP's availability factor is expected to meet or exceed the target of 83% (para. 4.2.5). Three of the
six HPP units have shown improvements in performance efficiency. Additional measures now in progress
need to be completed to improve the overall plant efficiency (average of 27.7% during implementation
period) to the targeted figure of about 30%.
4.1.2  In spite of additional distribution transformer capacity, reinforcement of the network and
installation of capacitor banks, distribution losses remained at almost a constant level of 11%, or about
1.7% above the targeted figure of 9.3%. The installation of statistical meters to better determine the level
of losses at bulk supply points and distribution feeders had only begun at project close. The objective of
improving distribution system efficiency through loss reduction measures has not been met due in part to a
possibly inaccurate reference point for losses (para. 4.2.1). While the 9.3% target distribution loss figure
has not been achieved, the number of new customers, for which a target was not established due to concern
of generation capability, increased by over 130,000. This amounted to a 41% increase in the number of
new customers provided with electricity supply. Thus the distribution component's objective of coping with
unmet demand has been achieved beyond the project's expectation. The lower than targeted distribution loss
figure has been more than compensated by the high number of new customers connected to the distribution
system. In addition, load demand management measures, particularly the installation of ripple control
systems, will improve distribution system operating efficiency during critical supply shortage periods.
4.1.3  The objective of better managing power shortages has been achieved by: (i) the refurbishment of
ripple control systems for selective and discriminative load shedding; and (ii) the installation of
under-frequency relays for load shedding during system disturbances. The ripple control systems have a
potential to selectively load shed up to 50 MW. The under-frequency relays are designed to load shed
between 50-100 MW during system disturbances.
4.1.4 The exchange rate shocks of 1997 (about a 42% depreciation of the Zim Dollar), the 50%
devaluation that followed in 1998, and the overvalued Zim Dollar through to project closure, largely a
result of weak macro-economic policies, seriously affected the financial performance of the power sector
particularly in the latter half of 1998 and during 1999 (item 7 of Appendix 1). ZESA's average retail tariff
did not keep pace with exchange rate shocks until mid-1999 when ZESA was able to implement an
automatic monthly tariff adjustment mechanism for its commercial customers; in January 2000 the formula
was applied to all consumer categories. The scarcity of foreign exchange further exacerbated ZESA's
ability to pay its foreign debt service and impeded the timely maintenance and repair of the HPP. In spite
of the macro impact on ZESA's finances, accounts receivables averaged 39 days from FY 95 through
project closure (Appendix 1, item 4). This is a remarkable achievement compared to the covenanted figures
of 75 days for FY 94 and FY 95, and 60 days for subsequent fiscal years.
4.1.5  With regard to the project's power sector reform objective, the Cabinet approved ZESA's proposal
to promote private sector investment in generation in 1996. This was seen as a positive step underscoring
the Government's commitment to its power sector policy statement. A competitive tender for HPP units 7
and 8 (2x330 MW) was launched in 1996. The selection process, however, was less than transparent.
YTL of Malaysia was awarded the bid which was expanded to include the privatization of the HPP (units
1-6). In addition, ZESA began to pursue another project, the Gokwe North Independent Power Producer
Project (1400 MW), with private investors. During the course of project supervision, the Bank along with
ZESA and the Ministry of Transport and Energy (MTE), undertook a review of the power sector
- 4 -



investment program. The review covered the sequencing and timing of new investments in line with the
principles of least cost planning. Also, an assessment of the financial and economic impact of the YTL
transaction was undertaken, funded through PHRD trust funds. The outcome of these assessments
concluded that neither the YTL proposal nor the Gokwe North project was the least cost option for the
power sector. In addition, it identified that the next least cost generation sequence should be the extension
of the HPP (units 7 and 8). In early 2000, the Government decided to rescind the YTL deal and to drop
pursuing the Gokwe North project, in favor of a competitive bidding process for the extension of the HPP.
4.1.6 In mid-1999, there was a renewed interest by ZESA and the MTE to promote power sector reform.
An Electricity White Paper to define the Government's policy objectives for the power sector was drafted
by a joint MTEIZESA team. The strategy includes the unbundling of generation, transmission and
distribution into business units, a revision to the Electricity Act, and the establishment of an autonomous
regulatory body. Emphasis is placed on private sector participation in distribution and in generation. Also,
the draft White Paper makes recommendations on the establishment of a Rural Electrification Agency to
accelerate rural electrification schemes in isolated areas of the country, as well as those where grid
connection would be economic.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  Part A (Distribution). The physical objective of increasing the transformer capacity and
extending the 50km 132kV transmission line (financed by AfDB) has been achieved. The Shangani 132kV
line and related 132/11 kV substation are the major reinforcement works undertaken under the Loan. The
installation of capacitors and demand management measures including installation of automatic load
shedding devices have been completed. Statistical meters have been procured to be able to effectively
assess distribution system losses and help prescribe remedial measures. However, only a few have been
installed. They have indicated high losses at domestic customers' premises using flat rate metering
arrangements. This indicates that replacing such meters by kWh meters could reduce non technical losses.
[Note: The large number of flat rate meters (about 127,500 or 30% of domestic customers) contributes to
a degree to non-technical losses. The estimated annual consumption byflat rate customers is about 4%
of total sales. I Completion of the installation of the 2,000 meters may thus result in modifying the total loss
percentage which has remained almost constant at around 11% over the lifetime of the Project, or 1.7%
above the targeted SAR figure (Appendix 1, item 14). The increased access of the population to electricity
rose from 19.6% in 1993 at project inception, to 24.5% in 1999 at project close (Appendix 1, item 15).
Thus the subsidiary objective of meeting unmet demand was achieved. In light of the above, the overall
achievement of Part A of the Project is considered satisfactory.
4.2.2 Part B (Hwange Upgrade). The combined physical outputs of the numerous contracts have
surpassed the original project design. As explained in paragraph 3.4.2, the main changes included: (i)
increasing the cooling tower capacity and (ii) replacing the outdated process control for HPP's Stage II
(units 5 and 6).
4.2.3  The specific objective of improving reliability and sustaining the performance of the HPP relied
heavily on the process control, the efficacy of the water systems and the additional cooling tower. The
original ICR processing time table was postponed to ensure their completion and obtain performance
results. The Stage I and Stage II process control systems have been completed. The feed heating plant and
the water systems are commissioned and operational. The cooling tower was commissioned in late 2000,
and no performance problems are anticipated. The impact of these upgrade components will enable the
simultaneous operation of HPP's Stage II's second 220 MW unit along with all other HPP units.
- 5 -



4.2.4  HPP's availability factor was not expected to be less than 83% upon completion of the Hwange
Upgrade and overhaul. As noted earlier, the nominal availability factor at project completion, however,
declined to 78.5% (Appendix 1, item 11). The main reason was the unforeseen breakdown of a step-up
transformer and the delays in its timely repair because of foreign exchange shortages (see para. 4.1.1).
4.2.5 It should be noted that when discounting the breakdown of the unit transformner and applying past
trends for outages, HPP's availability factor would have been 84.1 %. In fact ZESA's comments confirm
that before the transformer breakdown and after the completion of the upgrade program, the availability
factor of unit 4 was 88.2% in 1998, and 93.1 % until the breakdown when it plummeted to 78%.
Following the repair of the unit transformer which was put back to service in July 2000, seven months after
project closure, the average availability factor is high at 87.4%. Thus the availability factor of the plant is
expected to be above the target figure of 83% (itself a high average by international standards) in the
medium to long term. Continuous achievement of the 83% target figure could be hampered by the delays in
overhauling units 5 and 6, mainly due to the lack of foreign exchange.
4.2.6  Part C of the Project's objective was to review and update the design and cost estimate of the HPP
extension of 2x220 MW new generating units, and to prepare contract bidding documents. The consultants
review determined that 330 MW units was more cost-effective. ZESA considered options for financing the
extension estimated to cost $555 million, including a joint venture arrangement with private investors
(4.1.5). In the meantime, ZESA resorted to more reliance on power imports which substantially increased
during the Project's implementation period. Appendix 1, item 8, shows that during 1998 and 1999, annual
power imports from South Africa, Mozambique, Zambia and Zaire exceeded 42% of total supply.
4.2.7  The output for Parts D (Workshops) and E (Vehicles) are consistent with the original targets.
4.2.8  Part F (MIS component) of the Project, was delayed beyond the closing date because of the
expanded scope, and was substantially completed by May, 2000. It is reported to have satisfactorily
achieved its objectives. ZE'SA's institutional capability ensured early awareness of Y2K problems and,
despite the relative complexity of its system, no incident was reported.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return of the Project, mainly contributed by the Hwange Upgrade Program
(Part B of the Project) is conservatively estimated at 13.9% (Annex 3 and Appendix 3). This compares
favorably with the SAR's estimate of 13.5% for the HPP, the major component of the Project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return on partially revalued assets was within the projected SAR figures for
FY 92-97, ranging from 22% to 37% against the SAR projections of 27%. In FY 97/98 and FY 98/99,
however, the financial rate of return was -1.1% and 5.3%, respectively, compared to the SAR projections
of 17.5%. This was due to delayed corrective action to compensate for the significant and rapid
depreciation of the Zimbabwe Dollar against the US Dollar and other currencies (Appendix 1, item 5).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Training under the project focused on management (and change management), finance, power plant
operations, distribution networks, and demand side management. Participation by ZESA staff in power
sector reform seminars helped to foster an understanding of power sector reform and the role of private
- 6 -



sector participation. Staff commitment to ZESA's mission embodying customer satisfaction with reliability
and efficiency of supply and wider access to electricity is exemplary.
4.5.2  Building on the institutional development impact under the Project, ZESA alongside the MTE, has
played a major role in drafting the White Paper, the Government's policy statement on the reform of the
power sector (paras. 4.1.5 and 4.1.6). The power sector strategy has at its core fundamental institutional
changes. The Government developed and executed an excellent public consultation process in September
1999. All major elements of the draft White Paper (sector structure, ownership arrangements, the
legislative and regulatory framework, and the implementation phasing of the program) were fully debated
amongst the major stakeholders. The consensus built on the direction of change through these consultative
workshops has sowed the seeds of power sector reform in Zimbabwe, not only for those directly involved in
the power sector but within the population at large. Cabinet discussion of the White Paper is now
scheduled for February 2000. The draft revised electricity legislation is expected to be submitted to the
Parliament following the Cabinet's approval of the White Paper. The target date for approval and
promulgation of the legislative package is July 2001.
4.5.3  Overall, the outcome in terms of the physical implementation of the Project is satisfactory. The
institutional development impact taken by itself is, however, considered highly satisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  The breakdown of the 120 MW unit transformer (13% of total HPP capacity) resulted in over
5,100 hours of unit outage in FY99. Facilities to repair the winding were not available in Zimbabwe and
the transformer was sent to the Republic of South Africa. The unavailability of foreign exchange, outside
the control of the implementing agency, meant that there were substantial delays in putting the unit back
into service. Foreign exchange shortages have also affected the timely delivery of fuel needed for the
start-up of the HPP.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  The Zimbabwe Dollar depreciated heavily against the US Dollar during the project's
implementation period. The Zim/US Dollar exchange rate was Zim$8.2/US$ 1 at loan effectiveness, and
about Zim$45/US$1 at project close. The level of tariff adjustments did not respond adequately to these
changes, nor were they put into effect in a timely manner. The adoption of the automatic tariff adjustment
mechanism (ATAM) since August 1999 and the monthly graded tariff increases since January 2000 are
helping to improve ZESA's financial performance, and are expected to help redress the cumulative effect of
delayed tariff adjustments in the past.
5.2.2  The Government did not correct the macro-imbalance in the economy in a timely and effective
manner, including the depreciation of the Zimbabwe dollar. The Govemment's involvement in an effort to
abate regional conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo exacerbated the financial situation in the
country, including draining the country's foreign reserves. The flight of capital might also have contributed
to this situation. Full-fledged corrective action on electricity tariffs to cope with the fast depreciation of
the Zim$ was slow due to the Govenmient's concem about public demonstrations and the political
repercussions on impending (year 2000) parliamentary elections.
- 7 -



5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency control:
5.3.2 Appendix 1 (item 15) shows that total system losses have remained steadv at around 11%. The
gradual anticipated reduction to 9.3% was not achieved. The following can be cited as possible causes: (i)
The original scope of the distribution component (Part A) was specific in terms of localities and conceived
measures to reduce losses by a prescribed amount. There were, however, modifications to the localities
during early phases of implementation. In addition AfDB financed part of this component for which the
outcome was not monitored by the Bank (para. 3.4.1); (ii) Preliminary results from the installation of
statistical meters acquired under the Project indicate that there is some contribution to losses by customers
using load limiters (para 4.2.1). This casts doubt on the accuracy of the value of distribution losses used at
appraisal. Earlier procurement of statistical meters would have assisted to determine loss levels,
segregating technical and non-technical losses, and in establishing remedial measures.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1  Project cost to completion is estimated at US$134.2 million, of which US$122.6 million is in
foreign exchange and US$11.4 million is in local currency. IBRD's loan financed US$88.8 million of the
foreign currency portion and ZESA financed the difference of US$33.8 million as well as the local currency
requirement. ZESA's foreign currency share was facilitated by the Government's on-lending arrangement
of US$20.2 million from the US$150 million credit provided by IDA to help the Government implement the
Emergency Drought Recovery and Mitigation Project (EDRMP). The funds channeled from the EDRMP
credit were used to purchase urgently needed spares for maintenance and overhauling of HPP Stage I units.
5 .4 .2 The total cost to completion is about 77% of the appraisal estimate of US$174.2 million. The
major contributor to the 25% overall cost decrease is the 71% decrease in the local cost of the Project
relative to the appraisal estimate. This is partly due to the substantial depreciation of the Zimbabwe Dollar
relative to the US Dollar and to an excessively high local appraisal cost estimate for the cooling tower. The
foreign currency portion of total project costs is 91% of the original estimate (Annex 2). The depreciation
of some currencies of payments, notably the Belgian Franc, the South African Rand and the Deutsche
Mark, resulted in appreciable savings in relation to the currency of borrowing. This assisted the Borrower
to finance the Stage II process control.
5.4.3  Implementation Schedule. Due to procurement delays referred to in paragraph 5.5, and the initial
delay in declaring the Loan effective, the Closing Date was extended by two years to December 31, 1999.
In hindsight and considering the complexity of the HPP Upgrade program, the original implementation
schedule - pressured as it was by the shortage of the energy capability of the system due to prolonged
drought - was optimistic.
5.5 Other factors affecting and impacting implementation
5.5.1  Appendix 1, item 1, shows substantial delays in project implementation. The major cause of delay
was procurement processing. Procurement problems were experienced on two major contracts, each with
estimated contract values of about US$ 10 million. These were for the HPP's Stage I Process Control and
the construction of the additional Cooling Tower.
5.5.2  Conceming the process control procurement, an initial disagreement between the Government
Tender Board and ZESA on the inclusion in the bid evaluation of the un-read optional items required the
- 8 -



Bank's clarification. Also a bidder refuted inclusion of the optional figures that were not read at bid
opening as "suspect" thus lacking transparency. This issue, combined with the difficulty of evaluating the
rejection of the unlimited defects liability provision in the bid document, led to the rejection of all bids.
ZESA was advised by the Bank on April 27, 1995 to reject all 8 bids received in response to the first
request of August 1994, and to ask all 8 bidders to resubmit new bids based on a revised bid document.
New bids were received on July 20th 1995, almost 11 months after the bid issue date of the first bid. The
Bank's no objection to award the contract to Siemens, the lowest responsive bidder, was given on May 1,
1996, and the contract was awarded on 28th of May 1996, almost 22 months from the first bid issue date.
5.5.3  The bid document for the cooling tower was prepared to help improve the capacity of the existing
cooling towers and to cope with the cooling capacity requirements of units 7 and 8, each with an
anticipated rating of 220 MW. The bid process was under way when the unit 7 and 8 feasibility study was
completed. The feasibility study recommended that the least cost option was to increase the unit size to
330 MW. ZESA, therefore, prepared an addendum to the contract increasing the original price by more
than 20% due to the increased cooling capacity of the additional cooling tower included under the project.
Discussions with the Bank on the justification conceming the modification to increase the cooling capacity
delayed the initiation of construction of the cooling tower by about 9 months.
5.5.4  Disbursement. Disbursement lags were significant. Less than 50% of the loan was disbursed by
June 30, 1997, the original Closing Date of the Project when 100% disbursement had been envisaged. This
is partly accounted for by procurement and effectiveness delays referred to above. The optimistic
implementation schedule (paras. 3.5.1 and 5.4.3) also contributed to a less than realistic SAR disbursement
schedule. The undisbursed loan amount of US$1,143,302.73 million has been canceled.
5.5.5  Procurement. The Loan Agreement stipulated that the aggregate amount of procurement of
proprietary nature shall not exceed US$29 million. The actual amount spent for such procurement was
US$21.9 million for spares and service contracts with the original suppliers.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The short term objective of improving the performance of HPP measured in terms of its targeted
availability factor was not met because of the unexpected breakdown of one of the generating unit
transformers, and partially because of the underestimation of planned outages to carry out the upgrade
program of the HPP. This objective was achieved, however, 6 months after project closure (paras. 4.1.1
and 4.2.4). Increasing distribution system efficiency to a target of 9.3% through loss reduction measures
was also not met. On the other hand, the subsidiary objective of coping with unmet demand has been
achieved beyond the project's expectations: over 130,000 new consumers were connected to the grid
system, an increase of 41% to ZESA's customer base since project appraisal. In addition, the installation
of equipment (ripple control and under-frequency relays) for demand management will contribute to the
operational efficiency of the distribution system. These achievements will ensure sustainability in the
management and operation of ZESA's power supply system (paras. 4.2.4 and 4.2.5). Other important
management and operational efficiency gains achieved under the project include a significant reduction in
accounts receivable to 24 days of sales in 2000, increases in staff productivity measured in terms of the
customer to staff ratio, the establishment of business and cost centers made possible by the new
management information system, etc. Also, since mid 1999, ZESA has applied a monthly automatic tariff
adjustment mechanism which takes into account changes in inflation and foreign exchange rates. As a
result, ZESA's cash flow position has improved dramatically. In the short term, however, the availability
-9-



of foreign exchange will continue to harnper ZESA's operational and financial performance (about 80% of
ZESA expenditures are foreign exchange based). ZESA requires foreign exchange to pay for its power
imports, spares and maintenance, and to repay its foreign debt. ZESA is presently in arrears for imported
electricity and has been unable to purchase sufficient foreign exchange to service its debt.
6.1.2   In terms of meeting the project's medium- to long-term objectives, in many ways the project has
surpassed the stated objectives of commercialization and restructuring of ZESA. The proposed unbundled
structure of the power sector, the ownership arrangements and establishment of an autonomous regulatory
commission as presented in the White Paper (the Govemment's policy paper on the power sector) are a
significant step forward. A consensus has been reached on the strategy by ZESA, the MTE and other
stakeholders, which is a positive sign and demonstrates a commitment to the major changes proposed.
6.1.3  Yet, the White Paper has been pending discussion and approval by the Cabinet for some months
now, which has held up the submission of the draft electricity legislation to Parliament. It is likely there
will be further delays in the submission of the White Paper to the Cabinet until such time as the
macro-economic and political situation stabilizes, and the country can turn its attention to sector reforms.
Nonetheless, it would not be unreasonable to infer that the broad consensus reached on the unbundling and
divestiture strategy for ZESA, the integration with the South African Power Pool and the proposed
approach to rural electrification has gone past the point of no return.
6.1.4  While ZESA's performance under trying circumstances remains commendable, the firing of
ZESA's Board and the recent dismissal of the Chief Executive are indications of the unsettled political and
economic environment from which ZESA may not be insulated. The sustainability of the Project is
therefore rated likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Implementing Agency (the Borrower) is ably operating the power system in Zimbabwe of
which the HPP is a major component. The power sector is being restructured as part of the objectives of
the project. A draft power sector policy paper has set out the principles, policies and actions to be taken to
promote competition and private sector participation in the sector (4.1.5).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  Project identification was based on a technical audit report of HPP's operations which was a follow
up to the Operations Support component under the Bank's Power II Loan. Project preparation and
appraisal were based on a consultant's design study carried out for ZESA that defined and costed the HPP
Upgrade. The major overhaul of the Hwange units was part of the mandatory major maintenance work
prescribed by the suppliers after a defined number of hours of operation. Based on its past experience on
overhauling, ZESA prepared and Bank staff reviewed the specific needs for spare parts and services.
Project appraisal highlighted areas to improve the HPP's availability and efficiency. Bank staff also
assisted the Borrower in refining and establishing priorities for the MIS component that had been designed
by a consultant. Apart from the macro-economic risks which have had a major impact on ZESA's financial
performance, project risks and possible mitigating measures were appropriately addressed in the SAR. As
noted earlier, the depreciation of the Zim Dollar was significantly underestimated (Appendix 1, item 7).
7.1.2  The procurement, financial and project management aspects were addressed during appraisal. The
- 10-



Borrower committed adequate manpower to attend to the procurement and management aspects of each
component. To avoid the weaknesses experienced under the Power II Project, project accounting was given
particular recognition through the provision of a dedicated accountant within the project management unit
during project appraisal. The broad outline of the performance indicators given in the SAR were discussed
and the Borrower's commitment obtained.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  There were about 2 Bank supervision missions per year over the lifetime of the project. The
frequency of visits by Bank staff and an appropriate skill mix assisted in providing timely consultation with
the Borrower on the implementation aspects of the project and helped to ensure the Borrower's compliance
to obligations under the Loan. The Bank's supervision effort was significantly assisted by the Borrower's
dedicated project management group and the effective design of the performance indicator parameters
reflected in Appendix 1.
7.2.2  Beginning in the latter half of 1998 and until the closing date of the Loan, the Bank's supervision
efforts focused on the Project's objective of sector reform and restructuring. In particular, the Bank's due
diligence review of the YTL-sponsored Hwange Privatization and Extension (HPPPE) project carried out in
November 1998 for the Bank by London Economics, analyzed the proposal in the context of Bank's policy
on sales, securitization and privatization of Bank-funded assets. The report noted that the HPPPE project
as designed was not a least cost option for the country. The presentation of the report to ZESA's Board
during the December 1998 supervision mission and its availability to Govemment helped rationalize
approaches to the evaluation of proposals from private operators, including the proposed YTL transaction.
As a result, the MTE adopted a policy that future generation plant would be bid on a competitive basis.
The fruitful discussions and seminars on restructuring have contributed to the evolution of the draft for the
White Paper on Power Sector Policy, and have established grounds to consider a concrete follow-up
project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Overall the Bank's performance from preparation through supervision is considered satisfactory,
and the result of the Bank's due diligence review (para. 7.2.2) highly commendable.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation and Design. The Borrower was assisted by consultants financed under the Power II
project to prepare and design the Hwange Upgrade components that accounted for about 80% of the
original cost estimate of the Project. The Borrower's contribution to project preparation and design was
fully satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation perjbrmance:
The Govemment did not have a direct role in the implementation of the Project. The Government
Tender Board played an effective role in ensuring that procurement followed appropriate practices and
guidelines, and was prompt in reaching at decisions and providing advice to ZESA's Tender Committee. It
should be noted, however, that poor macro-economic performance and governance significantly hampered
ZESA's overall performance. The symptoms were: (i) a substantial decline in ZESA's average retail tariff
(which was only rectified in mid- 1999 with the adoption of an ATAM); this contributed to a decline in
- 11 -



ZESA's financial performance; (ii) the lack of foreign exchange to enable ZESA to pay its foreign debt
service obligations, for imported power purchases, and for timely maintenance and repair; and (iii) a less
than transparent award to a private sponsor for the privatization and extension of the HPP.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
7.6.1  ZESA is the Borrower and the Implementing Agency. The Borrower established a project
management team with the overall responsibility for project implementation. A component manager was
assigned for each of the Project's main components (Parts A, B, C, D, E, and F). Each component
manager reported to the project coordinator who reported to the Chief Executive. The Finance Department
assigned a dedicated project accountant to liaise with the component managers on payments made to
contractors and to ensure that disbursements were properly recorded to appropriate categories. The need
for a dedicated accountant was a recommendation learned from implementation of the Power II project
under which disbursements in the currency of payments were not converted to either the US Dollar or the
Zim Dollar equivalents upon payment. The management of a total of 35 contracts executed under the
Project was greatly assisted by the effective coordination and the dedication and commitment of the Project
Management Team.
7.6.2  The Borrower's financial performance for the first four years (FY 1993/94 through 1996/97) was
satisfactory, with adequate internal cash generation (except for FY96/97) and debt service coverage.
Because of the rapid depreciation of the Zimbabwe Dollar in relation to the US Dollar, the average tariff in
US cents per kWh in FY98 and FY99 declined substantially. It was only in August 1999, however, that
the Government approved ZESA's proposal for the introduction of an automatic tariff adjustment
mechanism which was designed to insulate ZESA from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. In January
2000, the Government acceded to ZESA's proposal to apply the ATAM to all consumer categories. From
FY98 until the adoption of the ATAM in FY2000, ZESA's average tariff in US cents fell to about half the
economic cost of supply (estimated at USc 5.4 per kWh). While the application of an ATAM helped to
improve ZESA financial performance in FY 1999/2000, the shortage of foreign exchange further
exacerbated ZESA's financial position and its ability to: (i) pay for the significant level of imported
electricity from neighboring countries; (ii) make its foreign debt service payments; and (iii) ensure timely
plant repairs and maintenance. Over the implementation period of the project (FY94 through FY99),
accounts receivable averaged 39 days, substantially below the covenanted figures of 75 days for FY95, 65
days for FY96, and 60 days for FY97 and beyond. The average figure is by far the best figure in the
region. Except for FY98 and FY 99, ZESA's financial rate of return (on partially revalued asset basis) is
in line with appraisal estimates (Appendix 1, items 2,3,4, 6 and 7). It should be noted, however, that
ZESA's underlying financial position has been seriously eroded by the significant deterioration of
Zimbabwe's macro-economic condition and the lack of foreign exchange. In addition to the monthly
adjustment of tariffs to account for foreign exchange fluctuations, other measures such as the injection of
capital would need to be taken to enable to repay its large accumulated debt that has resulted from changes
in the exchange rate and inflation over the last several years.
7.7 OIverall Borrower performance:
7.7.1  The Borrower has generally complied with the legal covenants of the Loan Agreement. An
exception was non-compliance to the dated covenant related to the adjustment of electricity tariffs to reach
the long-run average incremental cost or the long-run marginal cost of power for each consumer group
(Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement). On July 1, 1996, ZESA requested and the Bank agreed to a waiver
on the adjustment tariffs to meet the long term marginal cost of electricity supply; and instead the
self-financing ratio was increased from 25% to 40% and the debt coverage ratio was raised from 1.25 to
- 12-



1.5. This accommodation was justified in light of the 1995 tariff study (questions were raised about the
methodology and assumptions of the long run marginal cost of electricity supply). Despite this waiver,
neither the self-financing ratio nor the debt service coverage was achieved in FY97-99. As noted earlier,
macro-economic performance is the major factor contributing to ZESA's non-compliance, over which
ZESA had no control.
7.7.2  Notable achievements of the Borrower include: (i) the reduction in number of days of accounts
receivable to well below the 60 day requirement in the Loan Agreement to exceptionally low levels even by
international standards (Appendix 1, item 4); (ii) a fast rate in the growth to electricity access (Appendix 1,
item 15) and ZESA's commitment to customer satisfaction; (iii) an increase in customer to staff ratio,
signaling improved productivity and a reduction in staff. ZESA's vision to attain international standard in
providing high quality of service to its customers has thus been action-oriented and strengthened by the
establishment of business units to ensure efficient service and staff accountability.
7.7 3  The target of 83% set for the availability factor of HPP was not achieved by project close due to
the unforeseen breakdown of the step up transformer of one of the 120 MW units at Hwange (Appendix 1,
item 12). Subsequent to these repairs and major overhauling of units 5 and 6, awaiting financing
arrangements, the availability factor is expected to exceed the targeted figure (para. 4.2.5). The targeted
reduction in system losses to 9.3 % was not achieved possibly due to an overestimation of the value of
losses at appraisal and the assumption that remedial measures were to have been implemented during the
early cycle of project implementation (para 4.2.1).
7.7.4  The longer term objective of sector reforn gained momentum during the latter half of project
implementation. The draft Power Sector White Paper, outlining the possible options on the future of the
power sector (para. 4.1.6), is pending Cabinet approval. It is anticipated that the reform program
addressed by the White Paper will lead to: (i) the unbundling and divestiture of ZESA; and (ii) the revision
of the electricity law for which a draft has been prepared, embracing, inter alia, the establishment of an
independent regulator and the promotion of private participation in the power sector.
7.7.5  The Borrower's overall performance concerning the physical implementation of the project was
fully satisfactory. Overall, however, ZESA's performance is rated highly satisfactory because of its
pivotal role in the following: (a) its contribution to defining a coherent power sector reform strategy
covering the market and ownership structure (including the wholesale market integration with the South
African Power Pool), and assistance in the preparation of a legislative package including the establishment
of an autonomous regulatory commission and of a rural electrification strategy; (b) the introduction and
application of an automatic electricity tariff adjustment formula to account for changes in exchange rates,
particularly at a time of poor macro-economic performance; and (c) the professionalism of ZESA's
management in dealing with a significant private generation investment to protect the interest of ZESA and
its customers.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    The major lesson learned is that up-front commitments and support for sector reform, with
articulated ownership by all parties concerned, facilitates the process of commercialization and power
sector restructuring.
*   ZESA's performance was on a downward trend in the years preceding the conception of this Project.
- 13-



This was due to Government intervention in tariff setting and undue oversight of ZESA's operational
decisions. The Government's stated commitment to a power sector policy embracing
commercialization and restructuring, which was given during the preparation of the Project, helped to
reverse the situation. As a result, ZESA's commercialization effort surpassed expectations in the areas
of accounts receivable and access to electricity significantly increased. While ZESA's financial targets
were achieved FY95-FY97, it should be noted that there was a regression due to major exchange rate
shocks from FY98 to project closure (para. 7.6.2). The worsening macro situation and lack of foreign
exchange, which are outside ZESA's control, have hindered ZESA's overall performance (para 8.1.1).
*   Maintaining a dialogue on sector reform even in the context of a downturn in macro performance: In
spite of the deterioration in Zimbabwe's macro-economic program, by project closure significant steps
had been taken to define a cohesive power sector reform program. While the White Paper has yet to be
approved by Cabinet, and the draft legislation is pending Parliamentary review, the Govemment's and
ZESA's efforts have laid the foundation for a more rapid achievement of the proposed reform
objectives once macro-economic performance stabilizes.
8.1.1. A second lesson learned is the importance of embracing difficult sector policy issues within the
overall macro dialogue through structural adjustrnent operations. This brought into sharp focus the
potential impact of the YTL transaction on the economy and power sector, and prompted support for
actions to redress tariff levels. This also led to the adoption of a much more transparent environment for
private sector participation in the power sector.
8.1.2  As rational as the implicit prescription of an automatic tariff adjustment mechanism (ATAM) to
redress foreign exchange movements may be perceived, the automatic adjustment of prices in the case of
major shocks continues to be a bitter pill to swallow for the leadership of many developing countries. This
is of particular relevance when: (i) foreign exchange earnings from exports are relatively limited or are
marginalized by imports, which is the case for Zimbabwe; and (ii) when the utility (ZESA) has to pay for
42% of its electricity needs 2in foreign exchange. The scarcity of foreign exchange has not only hindered the
timely repair of the HPP's unit transformer (paragraph 4. 1.1) but also threatened the interruption of power
imports from South Africa due to delayed payment (7.6.2). Moreover, despite having adequate local
currency, ZESA has been unable to pay its foreign-denominated debt service. ZESA has nevertheless set
the example that a monthly application of an automatic adjustment formula helps to underpin its financial
viability, at the same time minimizing political interference. While the ATAM has helped to restore
ZESA's cash flow situation, the lack of foreign exchange remains problematic. Additional measures will be
needed to enable ZESA repay its large accumulated foreign debt over the last few years brought about by
exchange rate and inflation changes.
8.1.3  The completion of a technical audit during project preparation, followed by a detailed study, have
paid dividends in the realization of the upgrade-cum-rehabilitation of the HPP. No surprises in the form of
unforeseen provisions in the specifications emerged during project implementation. Interpretation of the
procurement provisions in the process control bid document did, however, invite a complaint from a bidder
that eventually led to rebidding. The need to be very specific concerning whether or not to include optional
items in bid evaluations is a lesson drawn from this experience. The absence of a Standard Bidding
Document for Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment, which was introduced about mid-term of
project, is partly the cause for some of the procurement delays encountered by the Project (para 5.5.2).
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerlimplementing agency:
ZIMBABWE POWER III IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
9.1    DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT
9.1.1  Introduction
A number of projects on the distribution system were identified as part of the development of
the master plan for the Zimbabwe power sector. These projects were identified in the face of
the 1991/92 drought which had reduced the available generation capacity thereby creating an
urgent need to implement power loss reduction measures on the distribution system.
9.1.2  Project Objectives
*   To implement projects that would alleviate capacity problems through system
reinforcement and installation of capacitors.
e To implement a demand side management system using ripple control equipment.
To effectively monitor and control system losses by using statistical metering.
9.1.3  Project Implementation
* Some of the projects that were initially intended to be financed under World Bank Power
III funding were cancelled and implemented under ADB financing.
* Capacitor banks were procured and installed resulting in an improvement of voltage
profiles. However, system losses have remained almost constant due to the long extensions
of distribution lines under the Rural Electrification program.
* Over 2000 statistical meters were procured and about 30% have been installed mainly on
the Bulk supply points and Area network boundary points. The Areas have been trained
on reading the meters but calculations on energy balance can only be made once the meters
have been installed down to the 1 lkV feeders.
* The old Ripple control system in Harare and Bulawayo was replaced and about 52MW
can now be shed by switching off hot water geysers during peak periods.
9.1.4 Lessons Learned
* Projects which were implemented on a turnkey basis proceeded smoothly. The financial
gain resulting from splitting projects into separate contracts should be weighed against the
- 15-



costs of delays and project co-ordination efforts.
*   Projects like the Shangani 132kV substation were delayed mainly due to the need to
re-appraise the project in line with World Bank requirements.
9.2  HWANGE COMPONENT
9.2.1  Original Problem
Hwange Power Station was built and commissioned in two stages with stage 1 comprising 4 x
120 MW units and stage 2 comprising 2 x 220 MW units. Stage 2 was originally designed for
4 units but only the first phase consisting of 2 x 220 MW units was constructed and the second
phase consisting of an additional 2 x 220 MW was cancelled because the capacity and energy
demand had not grown to the forecast levels.
The design for the second phase of stage II included a third cooling tower for the power station
and a second 30 MVA station transforner for stage 2. Installation of the cooling tower and the
station transformer was therefore cancelled together with the cancellation of the second phase
and this resulted in an undersized cooling water system for Hwange Power Station and an
unreliable auxiliary supply for stage 2.
In addition to these design deficiencies, the pneumatic control system for the boiler and turbines
was obsolete, the feed heating plant had deteriorated to an extent where the stage 1 units were
now restricted to 1 00MW and the raw water used for cooling bearings was inappropriate
causing constraints in the loading of various plant and equipment.
9.2.2  Objectives
The main objective of the Hwange Component was to increase the performance and reliability
of Hwange Power Station by eliminating identified design deficiencies and operational
constraints. The specific project components include:
* the design and construction of a third cooling tower, installation of a circulating cooling water
system, design and construction of an auxiliary cooling water system and the refurbishment of
the water system chlorination plant.
* installation and commissioning of a 30MVA station transformer and the automation of the
standby diesel generators.
*   refurbishment of HP and LP heaters.
*   replacement of the obsolete pneumatic control system with modem distributed digital control
systems.
*   installation of a new coal management and dust suppression system including the refurbishment
of coal feeders, junction tower chutes and coal bunkers.
9.2.3  Problems Encountered
- 16-



*   The target date for issuing the first 12 tenders was October 1993 but these were only issued in
May 1994. ZESA and its consultants initially used standard FIDIC bidding documents instead
of the Standard World Bank bidding documents resulting in prolonged queries on the
conditions of contract.
*   The stage 1 process control tender was delayed by more than a year because of the lack of
clarity in the evaluation criteria. The tender had to be cancelled and re-issued to the original
bidders.
* The cooling tower contract was delayed by almost a year because of a change in scope. The
tower had originally been designed to cater for 220MW units but a decision to adopt 330MW
units for stage 3 was made during the tendering period.
*   Some of the projects required plant outages to facilitate the installation of equipment and it was
not always convenient to arrange these outages given the pressing need for the power plant to
meet the system demand for power.
*   Delays were encountered in resolving design issues at project commencement because the
consultant engaged to supervise and manage the various contracts was not the same consultant
who had been involved in the design and procurement process.
*   The performance of some of the contractors was below standard resulting in significant delays
in the completion of some projects like the coal management and dust suppression, the
laboratory equipment and the online sampling and monitoring equipment.
   Commissioning of the stage 2 process control equipment was delayed by the shortage of diesel
to start up units 5 and 6. The shortage of diesel was due to the wider macro-economic
problems in Zimbabwe at the time.
9.2.4 Implementation Results
The objectives of the Hwange component were broadly met in spite of the delays in completion
of some of the projects. The plant availability of individual stage 1 units now exceed 80%.
Process Control
The outdated process control equipment in both stage 1 and stage 2 units were replaced.
After the initial increase in unit trips due to bugs in the new system, a downward trend in
the number of trips has now been established. Some improvement in the plant efficiency
has been noted but more improvements are expected once the plant is fully optimized.
Feed Heating Plant
The replacement and commissioning of the new HP and LP feedheating plant has resulted
m the sent out capacity of stage one units increasing from about 100MW to about
115MW.
Water Systems
The installation and commissioning of the third cooling tower resulted in the return cooled
water temperature improving from about 40C to the design 32C. This has greatly
- 17-



improved the vacuum on all machines allowing them to operate at rated outputs. The
installation of the new auxiliary cooling water system has also improved the operating
temperatures of large bearings installed on the plant.
9.3  WORKSHOP COMPONENT
9.3.1  Original Problem
The ZESA workshops produce and fabricate various equipment used in the building of
transmission lines and substations. The workshops also have the responsibility to repair and
test equipment such as transformers, circuit breakers and lightning arrestors. The ZESA
workshops were, however, not consolidated in one location and a decision was made to build
on one site an integrated workshops complex together with a new stores complex.
In order to upgrade the facilities, modem equipment was required and this was purchased using
World Bank funds.
9.3.2  Objectives
The main objective of the project was to provide modem workshop equipment for the new
ZESA Ardbennie Workshop Complex.
9.3.3  Problems Encountered
*   Delays were experienced in the procurement and delivery of equipment.
-   Equipment specifications in some of the tender documents were not sufficiently precise leading
to numerous delayF.
9.3.4  Benefits of the Project
The new Ardbennie Workshops Complex is now equipped with modem equipment which has
increased the variety of products being manufactured, improved the quality of products and
increased the production capacity and tumaround time.
9.4    MIS COMPONENT
9.4.1  Objectives
The objective of the Vision 2000 project was to provide ZESA's core business units with
business applications which would assist in achieving world class operations practice.
Acquisition of the Vision 2000 applications was targeted at areas in which ZESA would derive
the greatest quantitative and qualitative benefits. These were the areas of Assets and Works
Management and Inventory and Procurement Management.
9.4.2  Project Status
The business applications namely Maintenance Management System (MMS), Design &
Construction System (DCS) and Inventory & Procurement Management System (IPMS) under
- 18 -



Vision 2000 were successfully implemented with the assistance of Union Fenosa at the
following pilot sites:-
Site                                      ADplications
Hwange Power Station                      MMS, IPMS
Kariba Power Station                      MMS, IPMS
Harare Area                               MMS, IPMS & DCS
Head Office                               MMS, IPMS
Following the departure of the Union Fenosa staff, the business applications were implemented
by ZESA staff at the following sites:-
Site                                      Applications
Western Area                              MMS, IPMS & DCS
Bulawayo Power Station                           MMS, IPMS
Harare Power Station                      MMS, IPMS
Transmission Department (Sherwood)        MMS, IPMS
Training has been done for Munyati and Northern Area which will be implemented by
December 2000. This will leave two sites, namely Eastern Area and Southem Area to be
implemented in 2001.
9.4.3  Project Performance
Although the timeframe for the project was rather short, the applications were implemented at
the pilot sites within the specified time and within budget. Generally the applications have
performed according to the specifications.
9.4.4 Problems Encountered
Communication Facilities
The major problem encountered has been the unavailability of telecommunications
facilities at the required times. This has resulted in some sites not being implemented on
time. This has also led to the indefinite suspension of the implementation of systems at
Munyati Power Station as the established links are continuously going down to such an
extent that users can at times go for a week without having access to the systems.
Staffing
The IT Division has found itself over-stretched in terms of staff. Although the number of
business applications and the user base for the organization has increased, this has not
been matched by an increase in IT staff. The staff that were trained on the Vision 2000
applications have to support and implement the systems at new sites.
The IT Division continues to support and maintain the JBA System 21 financial
applications and the Consumer Information System. Some of these systems are being
implemented at new sites.
- 19 -



System Interfaces
Although the interfaces built to link the Vision 2000 applications to the JBA System 21
Financial applications and the Consumer Information system are working they still need to
be fine tuned so that they become robust.
9.5   INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
9.5.1  Project Objectives
This part of the loan was aimed at supporting other activities taking place under the loan
agreement by ensuring that staff were adequately prepared for their role in the management and
operations of the electricity business.
9.5.2  Implementation Experience and Results
From the stant, a needs analysis was carried out in order to determine the requirements of all
ZESA departments. As a result of this analysis, a suite of training packages was set up to
cover the needs of all ZESA units particularly at the managerial level for which local resources
were inadequate. World Bank staff assisted in this exercise by providing advice on initiatives
that were likely to add value.
The key areas that were addressed were: management of transaction and distribution networks
(the former included use of PSS/E software), management of power stations, financial
management of a commercialized utility, Demand Side management, Project management,
Change management, managing in a Commercial Environment and Managing Change. One
training programme that addressed environmental issues met with some skepticism from the
participants who were generally of the opinion that environmental issues are not as high as
other pressing issues in a developing country.
Some training was done by attachments overseas, some by short courses overseas and in South
Africa but mostly through visiting experts giving courses in Zimbabwe. This was found to be
a good mix, benefiting more people within the organization. It was noted that the training
resulted in changes in the methods used by ZESA staff to carry out some functions such as
distribution line design and system operations.
During the duration of the project, more than 300 staff received a total of approximately 1500
man-days of formal training of which approximately 90% was received in Zimbabwe. The
Chief Executive and three directors attended senior executive workshops in UK and Ireland
where they focused on strategic issues affecting both private sector and parastatals undergoing
commercialization. These workshops supported ZESA's progress towards commercialization.
Throughout the programme, ZESA received excellent support and assistance from World Bank
staff who both provided advice and ensured that funding was available in good time to ensure
that training initiatives could take place. ZESA side of the administration was similarly
supportive and the project proceeded with few problems.
9.5.3 Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Generally the training that took place had some impact on ZESA's activities particularly with
- 20 -



regard to skills of a specialized nature for power utilities as well as assisting in its
commercialization thrust. At the same time, it is noted that the cross section of employees that
took part needed to be both broader and more vertically spread. For instance, some
Programmes were attended by staff that were not sufficiently senior to be able to make
meaningful change back at their workplace.
9.6    FINANCE REPORT
9.6.1  The Bank
Financial Management
The Bank's performance in assisting the borrower with project preparation as far as
financial requirements are concemed was highly satisfactory. The funds were
adequate for the project.
The Bank's officials assisted the Borrower with the design of the report format for the
Power III project and improvements were made to the report by Bank Officials during
various missions.
Disbursements
The Bank would at times delay in making disbursements to contractors. There were
times when ZESA and contractors had to make frantic follow ups of some
disbursement applications. Delays were particularly experienced on the Siemens
Contract 6/98. Application 89 took more than 40 days to disburse.
Overall Bank Performance:                Highly Satisfactory
9.6.2 The Borrower
Financial Management
Project reporting and capturing of financial data was adequate and timely. The
Borrower maintained adequate records and produced financial statements in
accordance with sound accounting practices and generally accepted accounting
principles. Compliance with financial covenants in Terms of Article V of the Loan
Agreement was discussed with Bank Officials on various missions. Due to the crash
of the Zimbabwe dollar on 14 November 1997, it was made impossible to increase
tariffs to reach Long Run Marginal Cost for each consumer group as initially intended.
The Borrower did not submit to the Bank, Audited Reports specific to the projects as
required by the Bank up until April 1999. The first report was from August 1994 to
June 1998 and was only submitted in April 1999 after the Bank's intense reminders.
Overall Borrower Performance:                   Satisfactory
Lessons Learned
There is need to appoint an experienced project Accountant from the inception of a
project to avoid delays in disbursements as a result of submission of inadequate
documents and wrong allocations of categories. Proper procurement procedures
should be adhered to, to minimize delays in the Bank approving contracts. The
- 21 -



Accountant responsible for the project was not aware of the Audit Reports required by
the Bank and the first Audit Report was for the period of August 1994 to June 1998
and was only submitted in April 1999. World Bank local office should quickly check
applications for disbursements and submit to World Bank Washington in time to avoid
delays in disbursements to contractors.
HWANGE POWER III UPGRADE PROJECTS
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE REPORT
The World Bank sponsored a number of projects at Hwange Power Station through Power III Loan in
1994. The main objective of the projects was to improve the reliability and performance of the power
plant. The projects were implemented from 1995 and most of the projects were completed sometime
between 1997 to 1999. Acceptance tests for Contract 2 (Cooling Tower 3) are still outstanding due to
the unplanned outage of Unit 6. The analyses of the benefits derived from the upgrade projects are
outlined below.
AVAILABILITY
The availability of each unit has improved after the implementation of the upgrade projects. In general
the units have performed well above the target of 80% availability since the completion of the upgrade
projects except for units 3, 4 and 6 which have suffered major breakdowns. All the six units are now
running. The performance summary is as follows: -
Unit 1
The unit's availability in 1999 was 91.6%. The process control upgrade project was completed
in March 1998. The unit has maintained a high availability factor with an average availability
of 84.34% for year 2000 by October.
Unit 2
The process control upgrade project for this unit was completed in January 1998. Unit 2
availability was slightly below target at 79.7% in 1999. This was due to the statutory outage
and boiler nose modification project from May to June 1999. The unit has not suffered any
boiler nose tube leak for the past 15 months of operation. The year to date availability for the
unit as at October 2000 was 94.37%.
Unit 3
The process control upgrade project was completed in November 1997 (year 1997/98). In
1999 the unit had an impressive 97.7% availability. However, the unit had a major breakdown
on 26 April 2000 due to generator rotor failure. The rotor suffered insulation failure and the
non-drive end coil-retaining ring was extensively damaged. Before the generator rotor failure
the unit had an average availability of 80.2%. The year to date (October 2000) is low at
31.3%.
The unit was returned to service on 27 October 2000 and is currently running well at 114MW.
During the outage the turbine controls were upgraded.
- 22 -



Unit 4
After the completion of the process control upgrade in July 1997 the unit availability improved
to 88.2% in the year 1997/98. The average availability for the unit up to May 1999 was very
high (93.1%) until 11 June 1999 when the unit suffered a generator transformer breakdown.
The transformer had to be sent to South Africa for repairs and delays were experienced due to
shortage of foreign currency, which the country faced. The unit was eventually brought into
service in July 2000. The unit has been stable and the average availability from July to
October 2000 is high at 87.42%
Unit 5
The process control upgrade project was implemented in August 1999. The unit's average
availability has been quite satisfactory since the implementation of the project with a year to
date average availability of 84.30% as at October 2000.
Unit 6
The unit had the process control upgrade project implementation in December 1999. The
commissioning ofthe unit was delayed due to the non-availability of diesel early in the year.
The unit's turbo-generator bearings failed during commissioning in May 2000. The main oil
pump failed and the D.C lube oil pump failed to cut in due to lack of supplies from the
essential supplies board. The Bearings have since been replaced and the unit commissioned.
The overall plant availability for the station was below 80% in 1997/98 because most of the planned
outages for upgrade projects were implemented in 1997/98. The lower availability in 1999 was due to
the Unit 4-generator transformer failure. The year to date (October 2000) plant availability has
remained low at 55.05% due to the unplanned outages of Units 3, 4 and 6 for a considerable period of
the year.
EFFICIENCY
Before implementation of upgrade projects the power station efficiency was below the target of 30%.
The main reasons for the low efficiency being poor plant optimization due to the limitations of
pneumatic control, the low availability of feed water heaters and poor vacuum. Some units (Units 1, 4
& 5) have shown slight improvements in efficiency following the implementation of the upgrade
projects.
Although the installation of feed water heaters on Stage I units from February to July 2000 increased
the energy sent out for each of the Stage I units, the efficiency remains low. The main cause of the low
efficiency is high carbon in ash losses and excess air in-leakages. The carbon in ash loss can be
ascribed to poor plant optimization and worn out P.F. burner nozzles. The air in-leakages are due to
holed air heater tubes on stage I and damaged air heater seals on unit 5. These issues are being
addressed. The bumer nozzles will be replaced during normal maintenance. Air heater tube
replacement on other units will be done in due course. Replacement of air heater tubes on Unit 3 was
done during the outage.
- 23 -



TRIPS
There has been some improvement in the number of unit trips at Hwange Power Station due to
improved operation control resulting from the process control upgrade projects. The unit trips reduced
from 11.83 trips per month (142 trips) in 1997/98 to 11.17 trips a month (134 trips) in 1999. The year
to date number of trips per month as at 31 October 2000 is 11.70.
GENERATION RESTRICTIONS
From 1994 losses due to mill feeder problem and P.F leaks started to increase. In 1995 restrictions due
to P.F. leaks resulted in the highest loss of 7.8GWh while losses due to mill feeder problems reached a
peak of 35.7GWh in 1996. The power station then decided to increase maintenance in this plant area
by engaging some of its artisans on shift cycles in 1997. This resulted in a decrease in the losses,
because of improved response time, at the expense of high maintenance costs.
As part of the upgrade projects the mill feeders were changed and the P.F. pipework was lined with
ceramic tiles in 1998. This resulted in a remarkable reduction in losses due to mill feeder problems and
P.F. leaks. The losses due to P.F leaks have reduced by 80% while losses due to mill feeder problems
reduced by 76% since the lining of P.F pipework and changing of coal feeders. (see Graph 1 and 2
below).
The power station has also had load restrictions due to poor vacuum due to the inadequate cooling
capacity of the two cooling towers. The construction of the third cooling tower is expected to solve this
problem. Due to the unprecedented Unit 6 bearing failure, the acceptance tests for the third cooling
tower are still outstanding.
(h) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners rNGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Appendix 1 (in 3 pages), detailing the Key Indicators for Project Implementation in
support of Annex I is attached.
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Ilndicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/ lImpact Indicators:
TECHNICAL                                                                    TECHNICAL
(a) The availability factor of the Hwange                                    (a) The availability factor at project close is
Power Station to be to 83%. Commissioning                                    76.7% including 5,111 hours of outage hours
of the cooling tower and cooling system, and                                 due to a unit transformer breakdown. The
completion of the Stage II process control by                                fgure becomes 79% allowing a reasonable
about July 2000.                                                            repair period of 3,600 hours (para. 4.1.1). In
(b) Network losses reduced to 9.3% of net                                    July 2000, 7 months after project close, the
generation; installation of 2000 statistical                                 availability factor was 84.7%.
meters to assist in loss reduction measures.                                (b) Losses are 10.7% of net generation.
(c) Demand management measures through                                       Statistical meter installation needs
the installabon of 15,000 ripple control                                     completion to segregate technical and
devices and under frequency relays.                                          non-technical losses, and determine absolute
value of losses (para. 4.2.1).
(c) Ripple control devices at major supply
centers completed and under-frequency
relays have been installed. Selective load
shedding of 50 MW with the former and up
to 100 MW with the latter is enabled.
FINANCIAL                                                                    FINANCIAL (items 2-5 of Appendix 1)
(a) Debt service coverage of 1.25.                                          (a) Complied with except for FY98 and FY99.
(b) Generation of funds from intemal                                       (b) Achieved except for FY97 and FY98
sources of not less than 25% from July 1,                                    (Appendix 1, item 3).
1993 to June 30,1998.                                                        (c) Averaged 39 days from FY94-FY99
(c) Receivables of not less than 75 days in                                 (Appendix 1, item 4).
FY94 and FY95, 65 days in FY96, 60 days
in FY97 and thereafter.
INSTITUTIONAL                                                                INSTITUTIONAL
(a) 150 staff and managers trained in                                       (a) Some 300 staff were trained mainly at
finance and accounting, power system                                         ZESA's Training Institute. Seminars and
planning, operations and maintenance,                                        workshops abroad were also provided for
(b) Actions to commercialize ZESA,                                          senior staff in modern practices in utility
unbundle and restructure the power sector,                                   management and sector restructuring.
and introduce legal and regulatory reforms                                   (b) Commercialization objectives achieved.
for a sustainable power sector development,                                  Policy initiatives to restructure the power
including promoting private sector                                           sector, including unbundling generabon,
involvement.                                                                transmission and distribution into business
units are in place (para. 4. 1.5). Revised
electricity legislation drafted, providing for an
independent regulator and private
participation.
Output Indicators:
See Appendix 1 for details of Performance
Indicators.
End of project
-25 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table of Original Cost Estimate and Current Estimate to Completion
Local            Foreign    |Total          Local       Foreign        Total
Component                                                .  I1.  11
SAR cost estimate, in US Dollars        Current Estimate, in US Dollars
Part A:                  5210.000    12540,000    17.750.000       451.400     8.118.00     8,569.00
Distribution.
Percent                       100  00             100                  8.7         64.7          48.3
B.1-Hwange                  80,000    27,840,000    27,920,000      80,000    11,282,000    11,362,000
Operations
B.1-Hwange Upgrade      25,290,000    43,650,000    68,940,000    10,743,000    57,988,000    68,731,000
B.2-Hwange Overhaul        350,000    32,890,000    33,240,000     250,000    28,881,000    29,131,000
Part B: Total           25.720.00    104.380,000   130.100.000    11i073000    98,151,000   109.224.000
Percent                       100           100           100         43.1         94.0          83.9
Part C: Hwange Stage             -     2.070.000     2.070.000                   510.000      510.000
III Study
Part D: Workshops          700000      4200.000     4.900.000                 _4,15800      4,158.00
Part E:Vehicles          5.850000      48900         .400 1 0                  3.353,00     3.353.00
Part F: MIS              1,730.000     3920.000      5,650.000     115,000     7314,000     7.429.000
Part G: Institutional      770.000     2222.000     2.992.000            _       98000        980.000
Support
Project Total           39.998.000   134230,000   174,210,000   11.639.000    122.584.000   134.223.000
Percent                    100          100           100          29.1         91.3         77 1
- 26 -



PROJECT COSS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEM:ENT
(In US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                                 Procurement Method
Disbursement                          Appraisal Estimate                                Actual/Latest Estimate
Cateeorles
ICB     NCB      Other      NBFI       Total      ICB       NCB        Other      NBF        Total
1-A. Distribution      12.54                                      12.54      8.11                                       8.11
1-B. Hwange            28.49               30.22      44.23      102.94    63.14                            32.352     95.49
1-C, Workshop           3.20                 1.00                  4.20      3.58                                       3.58
I-D, Vehicles           4.89 I                                    4.89      3.353                                       3.35
1-E. MIS                3.92                                      3.92       5.20                             0.96      6.16
2-A, Hwange4                                 1.45                  1.45                           2.99                  2.99
2-B, Hwange Stage III                        2.07                  2.07                           0.78        0.49      1.27
2-C. MIS consultancy5                                                                             0.25                  0.25
2-D, Institutional                           2.22 I                2.22                           1.49                  1.49
Total                   53.04               36.96     44.23       134.2    83.38                  5.51       33.80     122.7
The additional foreign currency needs were earmarked for ZESA financing.
Includes US$20.37 million on-lent to ZESA by the Government of Zimbabwe from IDA Credit 2399-ZIM (Emergency Drought
Recovery and Mitigation Project).
3The figure is from ZESA's Project Accounts and is 21 % higher than the disbursement figures.
The original cost estimate amount was for Hwange Upgrade Consultancy. The Original Allocation of Proceeds had, however,
provided US$18,000,000 for maintenance and overhaul services as well as consultancies. It appears that between no-objections and
wrong allocations on applications, most of the overhaul and maintenance for Hwange has been included under Category l-B. This
also explains the increase in Category 1-B.
5The cost estimates provision of US$300,000 was not shown here. It was, however, provided for under Category 2-C of the
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan.
- 27 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
fXf fF00000000000000S'm='lS .........~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   .............   - :.'. ...............  ".;
. ......t....o~                         ak    ~ w          ~F    ~ k Got. C
Part A: Distribution      12.54      5.21                  8.12       0.45               64.8    8.6
Part B: Hwange            60.16      69.94                68.05      41.17               113.1   58.9
Part C: Hwange Study       2.07      0.00                  0.00       0.51                0.0    0.0
Part D: Workshops          4.20      0.70                  4.19       0.00               99.8    0.0
Part E: Vehicles           4.89       5.85                 3.35       0.00               68.5   124.9
Part F: MIS                3.92       1.73                 5.31       2.16               135.5  124.9
Part G: Institutional      2.22      0.77                  0.98       0.00               44.1    0.0
Total                     90.00      84.20                90.00      44.29               100.0   52.6
ZESA is the borrower, not Govermnent, therefore, heading Govt. should be ZESA.
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The major share of the Project's economic benefits accrues from the Hwange Upgrade Component,
Part B of the Project, accounting for almost 82% of Project costs. Though reduced in scope, the Bank's
share of the Distribution Component has also a quantifiable benefit and is included in the economic
evaluation explained below. The benefits of the other project components with regard to improving
operational efficiency (like the MIS) and strengthening the institutional capability of the Borrower
(Workshops, Vehicles) are not easily quantifiable. However, their costs are included in the economic
analysis, and thus may understate the ERR.
Costs. The table below gives yearly expenditures, in USD equivalent, for total project costs. The
yearly expenditure for foreign costs is based on the Bank's disbursement figures for the Loan (3696-ZIM)
and estimates for the US$20.2 million input from the EDRMP (Credit 2399-ZIM). Provision is also made
for interim investments for statutory major overhauling needs for Stages I and II units.
0 & M costs for the investmnent are estimated at 5% of the total investment cost. The figure of 5%
is probably on the high side (3-4 % for thermal plants), and is to compensate partly for the somewhat lower
figure for the statutory overhauling provisions.
Hwange Component Benefits. Annex 3.1 of the SAR states that the cooling towers, before the
Project, were designed for a cooling load for all of Stage I units (4x120 MW) and for only one of the Stage
II units (lx220 MW). The additional cooling tower which has been trial tested and due for commissioning
shortly will help resolve the cooling load limitations of Stages I and n1 units, thereby enabling the operation
of all units. IPP's water systems have also been upgraded, and HPP's performance will no longer be
constrained by either hot seasonal temperatures or by the quality of the circulating cooling water (as in the
past). Hence the benefits accruing from the additional cooling load and the improvement in the water
systems will, as a minimum, be an annual increase of 1, lOOGWh in the energy capability of the upgraded
HPP. However, because of the need for statutory overhauling of units 5 and 6, awaiting financing
arrangements, the benefits are not expected to be achieved in 2001 and 2002. Hwange's benefits are
assessed on the basis of 5 US cents per kWh. The present average tariff is just over 4 US cents, and the 5
cents reflects the figure for the consumer's current willingness to pay.
The provision of US$20.2 million from the EDRMP facilitated the: (i) purchase of urgently needed
maintenance and overhaul spares for Hwange, and (ii) payment for incremental importation of power,
largely from Zaire and South Africa, to cope with a larger than anticipated shortfall in supply during the
first half of the nineties when drought affected Kariba dam's hydro generation capability. Load shedding
for a 2 hour peak-period of at least 25 MW is estimated to have been avoided during the critical years of
1994 and 1995 as a result of this input. This is equivalent to 15,000,000 kWh of saved energy per year.
An annual benefit of US$7,500,000 is assessed at an estimated unserved energy cost of 50 US cents per
kWh. The figure is included under the value of benefit column of the table below.
Distribution Component Benefits. The scope of this component was changed during
implementation. Shangani reinforcement, with an estimated loss reduction of 2.5 MW was implemented
under the Loan. Capacitors installed under the Project are estimated to reduce losses by about 700 kW.
The benefits from the loss reduction features are quantified at the rate of 2.5 US cents per kWh, the
difference between retail prices and the consumer willingness to pay. The load shedding management
devices (ripple control, under-frequency relays) have substantial benefits in selectively reducing loads;
these benefits cannot, however, be quantified due to lack of monitored information. Suffice it to say that in
the scenario of a complete shutdown of the HPP, however rare this may be, selective load shedding of
- 29 -



50MW by the ripple control devices and up to 100 MW by the under-frequency relays will ensure supply
of the total of HPP's output (90OMW) less either the 50 MW or the 100 MW load shedding capability of
the devices.
Based on the above considerations, the economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at 14%.
(With the current actual tariff level of about 4.50 US cents, the figure will be 12%). The SAR figure for
Hwange Component alone is 13.5%. Contributions to plant efficiency and performance are unknown due
to delays in commissioning the totality of the Hwange Upgrade program, and operational experience needs
to be monitored to support the findings of the commissioning tests. Based on tentative test results the ERR
is likely to be higher.
ANNFX 3- 7ZI1NARA           POlWER III ItR  INTFRNAL RATF OF RFTIIRN
UsCA*A,              005                       0.025
Year                 _WAN            ____          HAtiotE                               Tota        l.l   Grim Gran,n'                       Iot a]        Net
_ cmn~a ot   O             L af Vl...  SA.V2    e     Valuaof  , aoa5ts        lna-sat  InVsta eot           Io toa     c St.         Coist        Beneft
MWb                      MWb                       Uafdellla I          USD          USD               laslma1 tJS D    oIJSDvL     USD         USD
1993
1994         15000      13,350    6,675,000                                6,675,000   11,200.000                 11,200,000                11,200,000    (4,525,000)
1995         15000      13.350    6,675,000                                6,675,000   25,500,000                 25,500,000               25,500,000   (18,825,000)
1996                                                                                   17,600,000                 17,600,000                17,600,000   (17,6W0,000)
1997                                                                                   21,100.000                 21,100,000               21,100,000   (21,100,000)
1998                                                                                   24,700,000                 24,700,000               24.700,000   (24,700,000)
1999                                                                                   20,900,000                 20,900,000               20,900,000   (20,900,000)
200W                                                19,650      491.250      491,250   1 1,000,O0                 11,000,000    6,825,000  17,625,000   (17,333,750)
2001                                    .           19,650      491,250      491,250                  1,000,000    1,000,000    6,825,000   7,825,000    (7,333.750)
2002                                    -           19,650      491,250      491,250                  1,000,000    1.000,000    6,825,000   7,825,000    (7,333,750)
2003     1,100,000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                     -      6,825.000   6,825,000    42,616,250
2004     1,100.000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                            6.825,000   6,825,000    42.616,250
2005     1,100,000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                            6,825,000   6,825,000    42,616,250
2006     1,100,0O0     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                            6,825,000   6,825.000    42,616,250
2007     1,100,000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                            6,825,000   6,825,000    42,616,250
2008     1,100,000     979,000   48,950,0DO         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                   800,000       800,000    6,825,000   7,625,000    41,816.250
2009     1,100,000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                     -      6,825,000   6,825,000    4Z616,250
2010     1,100,000     979,00   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                                     -      6,825,000   6,825,000    42,616,250
2011     1.100,000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250   49,441,250                   700,000       700,ODO    6,825,000   7,525,000    41,916,250
2012     1,100,000     979,000   48,950.030         19,650      491,250    49,441,250                                            6.825,000   6,825,000    42,616,250
2013     1,100.000     979,000   48,950,000         19,650      491,250    49,441,250                                           6.825,000   6,825,000    42,616,250
2014     1,100.000     979,030   48,950,030         19,650      491,250   49,441.250                  1,000,000    1,000,000    6,825,000   7,825.000    41,616,250
2015  1  1,t00,O       979.00    48.950                         491250                                                          6825000   6.825000    42.616250
136,500,000     ERR                           14%
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Ccle               No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  A- Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
Nov-92                        3   EC, PE, PEC
Appraisal/Negotiation
Mar-93                        3   EC, FA, PE
Supervision
Mar-94                        2  IEC, PE
Oct-94                        5  EC, 2FA, PE, PSP                     S                 S
Jun-95                        5  EC, FA, PE, PSS, PR                  S                 S
Feb-96                        3  EC, FA, PE                           S                 S
Feb-97                        3  EC, FA, PE                           S                 S
Jul-97                        3  EC, PE                               S                 S
Apr-98                        3  EC, FA, PE                           S                 S
Oct-98                        3  EES, FA, PE
Dec-98                        5  EES, 2FA, 2PE                        S                 S
Jun-99                        3  2FA, PE                              S                 S
ICR
Dec-99                        4   2FA, 2PE                            S                 S
EC=Economist, EES=Engineer/Enviromental Specialist, FA=Financial Analyst, PE=Power Engineer,
PEC=Power Economist, PR=Procurement, PSP=Power Systems Planning, PSS=Private Sector Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
-No. Staff weeks            US.$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              32.5                        79.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                  104.9                       324.7
Supervision                            157.0                       578.2
ICR                                      6.0                        30.0
Total                                  300.4                      1,012.0
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  O SU O M  * N  O NA
O Sector Policies                        OH  OSU OM  ON  O NA
D Physical                               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
El Financial                             O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
3 Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU O M  O N  0 NA
a Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              OH  O SU OM  ON  O NA
LII Gender                        OH OSUOM ON *NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H  O SU OM  O N  O NA
OI Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
Oi Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
-32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
E Lending                                           OHS OS  OU   OHU
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS  Ou  OHU
E Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
B Government implementation performance             OHS OCS  O U  O HU
O Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS   OU  O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
L. Staff Appraisal Report, Zimbabwe Power III Project, November 16, 1993, Report No. 1 1963-ZIM
2. Aide Memoires, from December 3, 1992 to December 30, 1999
3. Implementation Completion Report, EDRMP, (Credit 2399-ZIM, Report No. 15193, December
20, 1995)
- 34 -



APPENDIX 1: Details of Performance Indicators
1. Key LJnplementation Dates
Bid Opening For:
'   Part A: Distribution                               2/94                               07/94-09/97
*   Part B: Hwange                                    12/93                               08/94-05/98
*   Part C: Hwange III                                 1/94                                  01/96
   Part D: Workshops                                 2/94                                01/94-12/96
*   Part E: Vehicles                                   2/94                                  01/94
*   Part F: MIS                                        2/94                               05/95-12/99
*   Part G: Institutional                             12/93                               08/94-08/99
Contract Award For:
*   Part A: Distribution                               6/94                               03/95-02/99
*   Part B: Hwange                                     6/94                                  02/96
*   Part C: Hwange III                                 7/94                               12/94-11/97
*   Part D: Workshops                                  7/94                               11/94-05/98
*   Part E: Vehicles                                   7/94                               08/94-08/99
*   Part F: MIS                                      Various
*   Part G: Institutional
Completion For:
*   Part A: Distribution                               6/97                                  04/99
*   Part B: Hwange                                     6/97                                  12/99
*   Part C: Hwange III                                10/96                                  12/96
*   Part D: Workshops                                  8/95                                  12/99
*   Part E: Vehicles                                   6/95                                  ol/96
*   Part F: MIS                                        6/95                                  12/99
*   Part G: Institutional                              6/97                                  12/99
2. Debt service coverage, forl:
*   FY 1992/93                                         1.6                                    0.89
*   FY 1993/94                                         1.6                                    1.27
*   FY 1994/95                                         1.25                                   1.21
*   FY 1995/96                                         1.25                                   1.33
*   FY 1996/97                                      1.60(1.50)'                               1.28
   FY 1997/982                                     1.25(1.50)                                0.75
*   FY 1998/99                                      1.25(1.50)                                0.90
*   FY 1999/00'                                        1.25                                   2.55
3. Internal cash generation % for:
   FY 1992/93                                          1                                     27
*   FY 1993/94                                         25                                     31
*   FY 1994/95                                         25                                     47
   FY 1995/96                                         245                                    45
FY 1996/97                                       25(40)5                                  10
*   FY 1997/98                                        29(40)                                  16
*   FY 1998/99                                       (25)(40)                                  16
*   FY 1999/00                                         (25)                                    85
4. Receivables, days, for FY:
*   FY 1992/93                                         92                                     99
'   FY 1993/94                                         75                                     58
*   FY 1994/95                                         75                                     48
*   FY 1995/96                                         65                                      53
*   FY 1996/97                                         60                                     38
*   FY 1997/98                                         60                                      19
*   FY 1998/99                                         60                                     25
*   FY 1999/00                                         60 .                                   25
Fiscal year ending June 30 up to and including FY 1996/97, and December 31 beyond FY 1996/97.
Eighteen months to December 31, 1998.
3FY 1999/00 are based on ICR mission's recommendation for tariff increases.
4Following the waiver for LRMC requirement, 1.25 was changed to 1.50.
Follows the waiver for LRMC which changed the 25% to 40%.
_35 -



5. Return on assets' for FY:
*   FY 1992/93                                        27.1                                  28.3
*   FY 1993/94                                        27.1                                  37.0
*   FY 1994/95                                        27.1                                  26.9
*   FY 1995/962                                       27.0                                  22.4
*   FY 1996/97                                        27.0                                  21.2
*   FY 1997/98                                        17.5                                 -1.10
*   FY 1998/99                                        17.5                                  5.30
'   FY 1999)00                                        17.5                                  28.80
6. Average revenue, USc, for FY:
*   FY 1992/93                                        3.3                                    3.1
*   FY 1993/94                                        3.5                                   3.2
*   FY 1994/95                                        3.9                                   3.0
*   FY 1995/963                                       3.5                                   3.3
*   FY 1996/97                                        3.9                                   3.4
*   FY 1997/98                                        3.5                                    2.4
*   FY 1998/99                                                                              2.3
*   FY 1999/00                                                                               3.9
7. Exchange Rates, US to ZimD FY:
*   FY 1992/93                                        5.25                                  6.57
'   FY 1993/94                                        7.49                                  8.23
*   FY 1994/95                                        8.32                                  8.79
*   FY 1995/964                                       9.26                                  10.13
*   FY 1996/97                                       10.56                                  12.55
*   FY 1997/98                                       11.95                                  24.73
*   FY 1998/99                                       (13.50)                                38.61
*   FY 1999/00                                       (15.30)                                43.50
9. Supply GWh, In FY:
*   FY 1992/93 (% import)                            9,020                              8,303.7 (14.0)
*   FY 1993/94(% import)                             9,581                              9,197.7 (21.0)
*   FY 1994/95 (% import)                            10,192                             9,768.9 (22.8)
*   FY 1995/96 (%import)                             11,007                             10,202.0 (30.2)
*   FY 1996/97 (% import)                            11,558                             11,014.7 (35.5)
*   FY 1997/98 (% import)                            12,020                             11,439.1(43.7)
*   FY 1998/99 (% import)                            13,501                             17,054.6 (42.6)
*   FY 1999/00 (% import)                            13,001                             14,010.0 (37.5)
*         FY 1999/00 (% import)                                                         14,430.0 (43.0)
10. Retail Sales, GWh:
*   FY 1992/93                                       8,118.0                               7,730.8
*   FY 1993/94                                       8,629.0                               8,412.0
*   FY 1994/95                                      9,173.0                                9,035.9
*   FY 1995/96                                       9,908.0                               9,364.9
*   FY 1996/97                                      10,402.0                              10,088.0
*   FY 1997/99                                      10,818.0                              10,368.0
*   FY 1998/998                                     16,795.9                              15,534.0
*   FY 1999/90                                      11,588.5                              12,816.0
IPartially revalued basis.
2 Projected SAR for FY 1995/96; FY1996/97 are assumed figures.
3Projected SAR for FY 1995/96; FY1996/97 are assumed figures.
4Projected SAR for FY 1995/96; FY1996/97 are assumed figures.
5FY1998/99 and FY1999/00 are estimated figures.
- 36 -



I 11. Generation, MWh, in FY:
*    FY 1992/93, total (Kariba, others)                                                      7,468 (2,062; 651)
*    FY 1993/94, total (Kariba, others)                                                      7,535 (2,096; 624)
*    FY 1994/95, total (Kariba, others)                                                      7,811 (2,285; 654)
*    FY 1995/96, total (Kariba, others)                                                      7,323 (2,163; 525)
   FY 1996/97, total (Kariba, others)                                                       7,298 (2,122; 394)
FY 1997/98, total (Kariba, others)                                                      6,607 (1,880; 349)
*    FY 1998/99, total (Kariba, others)                                                      10,055 (2,927; 438)
*    FY 1999/00, total (Kariba, others)
12. Hwange Generation, MWh
*    FY 1992/93
*    FY 1993/94                                                                                   4,755.1
*    FY 1994/95                                                                                   4,815.9
*    FY 1995/96                                                                                   4,872.4
*    FY 1996/97                                                                                   4,634.9
*    FY 1997/98                                                                                   4,781.3
*    FY 1998/99                                                                                    4,378.5
*    FY 1999/00                                                                                    6,691.9
4 ,075.9
13. Hwange Availability factor (%)
*    CY 1993                                              80.0                                      80.0
*    CY1994                                               80.0                                      88.1
*    CY1995                                                81.0                                     80.3
*    CY 1996 1                                             83.0                                     84.6
*    CY1997                                               83.5                                      79.7
    CY 1998                                              83.5                                      84.2
*    CY1999                                               83.5                                     78.52
14. Maximum Demand (load factorl/o)
*    FY 1992/93                                        1,416(69.2)                              1,478.3 (67.0)
*    FY 1993/94                                        1,634(64.3)                              1,537.9 (70.8)
*    FY 1994/95                                        1,770 (65.9)                             1,615.8 (71.5)
*    FY 1995/96                                        1,821 (69.0)                             1,744.0 (68.5)
*    FY 1996/97                                        1,878(71.9)                              1,828.0 (70.6)
*    FY 1997/98                                        1,942(71.8)                              1,905.0 (70.3)
*    FY 1998/99                                        2,011 (71.8)                             1,950.0 (68.3)
*    FY 1999/00                                   2,087(71.9)                             2,034.0 (67.4)
15. Total losses (Transmission,
Distribution) In %                                         10.0                                 11.0 (4.4, 6.6)
*    FY 1992/93                                            10.0                                 11.8(3.6, 8.2)
*    FY 1993/94                                            10.0                                 10.8 (3.5, 7.2)
*    FY 1994/95                                            9.7                                  10.8 (2.8, 8.0)
*    FY 1995/96                                            9.5                                  11.7 (2.5, 9.1)
*    FY 1996/97                                            9.3                                  11.3(2.6, 8.7)
    FY 1997/98                                            9.3                                  10.8(2.8, 8.0)
*    FY 1998/99                                            9.3                                  10.7 (2.8, 8.0)
*    FY 1999/00
16. Access to electricity (%)
*    FY 1992/93                                                                                     19.6
*    FY 1993/94                                                                                     20.2
*    FY 1994/95                                                                                     20.4
*    FY 1995/96                                                                                     21.1
*    FY 1996/97                                                                                     21.9
*    FY 1997/98                                                                                     23.0
*    FY 1998/99                                                                                     24.13
*    FY 1999/00                                          ...
Projected SAR for FY 1995/96; FY1996/97 are assumed figures.
2Unit 4 step up transformer faulted in August 1999, and was not re-commissioned until May 2000. Unplanned outages of 5111 hours
recorded for the unit, are reduced to 3900 hours, sufficient for transport and repair in RSA. This gives availability factor of 78.5%.
Rough estimate, over 300/o has been reported.
- 37 -






I BRD 22659
)3  - n>                                                                    :h>_ 8 -, ZIMBABWE
73 , 62 r'Av  212 )   5                                                                                POWER SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE
r.           "' , ""~. AnC;                                                                          Mpafa Car-ga'
8    X    AO/H   +/,+   M <,b4Sp; V' ev,               ;                         L                      ~~~~~~~~M  O  Z A  M  B I Q  U E
16-
Other Mnn            w Tonisson  eesO    R    T
0    More Thn    M  B Ir    A                                                                     A-t
2 30k rlensnificnt,n Zones Bouz>ndarie
_Area3 Covered by Distribution System \ ,\   2t
132kv Trorsoission Lines (Under Coastruntion)             _                ot         c                                ,/
i      Hydra Ponl (Rehobilitat'onj                                                                                               >8/
-- -    International Bojndarios                                                      \\          xfl'            Z         \g                *2
-2BTWNA ;/MIOZAMBIQUE-
0         50       100        1s00^w
MILE'        '       I        .      I,                                            S O U T H       AEF R ITC A 
I                    -2                           '        20t r                                             30                             \       <  37                   SEPTEtABE 1 9902
30 kVT     6'-.    Li'
Otk- M- T,.-,.i- Li- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~SETMBR1 0



