Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3696 ZIM
                          Loan Agreement
                       (Third Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY
                        Dated April 5, 1994
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3696 ZIM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 5, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY
SUPPLY AUTHORITY (the Borrower).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter of development
policy dated June 3, 1993, from the Republic of Zimbabwe (the
Guarantor) describing, inter alia, a program of actions, objectives
and policies for its power sector (the Program) and  declaring its
commitment to the execution of the Program;
      (B)   the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (C)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the
Guarantee Agreement; and
      (D)   the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (b)   "Financial Year" and "FY" mean the financial year of the
Borrower which is from July 1 to June 30 of the following year.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of ninety million dollars ($90,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank through the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
Page  3
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund:
                  (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989,
                  bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
                  as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
      Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of
      the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
      Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
      outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor
      of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
      such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
Page  4
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Not later than June 30, 1995, the Borrower,
the Guarantor and the Bank shall undertake a mid-term review of the
Project implementation to ascertain inter alia, the performance of
the Borrower in the: (i) implementation of the Project;
(ii) achievement of the financial targets specified in this
Agreement; (iii) carrying out of its efficiency program, including
a review of its operational plan for FY96; and (iv) desirability of
using a rate of return on net revalued assets as a criteria for the
Borrower's financial management.
      (b)   Not later than one month prior to such review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank and the Guarantor for comments,
a report in such detail as the Bank and the Guarantor shall agree
upon, on the progress of the specific issues referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section.
      (c)   Following the review referred to in paragraph (a), the
Borrower shall act promptly and diligently to take any action deemed
necessary to correct any shortcomings agreed upon during such
review, in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
within its power in cooperation with the Guarantor's Tender Board,
to ensure that the bid adjudication and approval process for
contracts for procurement of goods under the Project are each
carried out within a period of three months.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
      (b)   To that end, the Borrower shall take all necessary
actions so that its senior managerial positions including, a Station
Manager, a Maintenance Manager, a Production Manager and Stores
Officer, all for the Hwange Power Station, are filled at all times
by suitably qualified and experienced staff.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, public utility and environmentally sound practices.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
      Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall implement the operations
plan for FY94 adopted on September 27, 1993;
      (b)   The Borrower and the Guarantor shall not later than
March 31, 1994, prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments, a draft operations plan for FY95.
      (b)   Following such review and comments, the Borrower shall
adopt by June 30, 1994, an operations plan for the Borrower's FY95
which shall be satisfactory to the Bank and shall include, inter
alia, appropriate operational and financial targets for the
Borrower, a formula for the adjustment of tariffs for unavoidable
Page  5
cost increases and the Guarantor's plans for the commercialization
of the Borrower, including the legal and regulatory reforms required
for that purpose, and for private sector participation in the power
sector.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) and the
                  records and accounts for the Special Account for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                  financial statements for such year as so audited;
                  and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank until
the completion of the Project twice yearly, its billings and
collections as of June 30 and December 31 each year.
      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all necessary measures so that its outstanding customer
account receivables shall not exceed 75 days of revenues for FY94
Page  6
and FY95 and 65 days and 60 days of revenues for FY96 and FY97,
respectively.
      Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall consult by May 31 of each
year with the Guarantor and the Bank on its power investment program
for the next three successive Financial Years.
      (b)   Following such consultations, the Borrower shall adopt
a power investment program for such Financial Year which shall be
satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.
      (c)   Thereafter the Borrower shall not carry out any power
investment estimated to cost in excess of the equivalent of $50
million which is not in the adopted investment program for the
Fiscal Years in question without prior consultation with the Bank.
      Section 5.04. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank for its review by January 30, 1995, its estimates of either the
long run average incremental cost or the long run marginal cost of
power for each consumer group and shall adjust its tariffs to reach
one or the other of these costs by July 1, 1995.
      Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the net revenues of the
Borrower for the Financial Year immediately preceding the date of
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ending prior to
the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.25 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
the Borrower for any succeeding financial year on all debt of the
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the
                  Borrower maturing by its terms more than one year
                  after the date on which it is originally
                  incurred.
           (ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                  loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                  providing for such debt or for the modification
                  of its terms of payment on the date of such
                  contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
                  a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
                  providing for such guarantee has been entered
                  into.
          (iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference
                  between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations adjusted to take
                        account of the Borrower's  tariffs in
                        effect at the time of the incurrence of
                        debt even though they were not in effect
                        during the twelve-month period to which
                        such revenues relate and net non-operating
                        income; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
                        operations including administration,
                        adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
                        depreciation, other non-cash operating
                        charges and interest and other charges on
                        debt.
           (iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
Page  7
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.
            (v)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate of repayments (including sinking fund
                  payments, if any) of, and interest and other
                  charges thereon.
           (iv)   The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  financial year.
           (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next financial
                  year.
           (vi)   The term "current liabilities" means all
                  liabilities which will become due and payable or
                  could under circumstances then existing be called
                  for payment within twelve months, including
                  accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                  requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                  taxes, and dividends.
          (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations.
      Section 5.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall produce, for each of its Financial Years
beginning from July 1, 1993, until its Financial Year ending on June
30, 1998, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than
25% of the annual average of the Borrower's capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the previous
financial year and the next following Financial Year.
      (b)   Before December 31 in each of its Financial Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following Financial Year and shall furnish to the Bank a
copy of such review upon its completion.
      (c)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for the Bor-
rower's Financial Years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments of its tariffs and reduction of unit costs) in
order to meet such requirements.
      (d)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
                        related to operations, consumer deposits
                        and contributions, net non-operating
                        income, sale of assets and investments, any
                        reduction in working capital other than
                        cash; and
                  (B)   the sum of all expenses related to
Page  8
                        operations, including administration,
                        adequate maintenance and taxes and payments
                        in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
                        depreciation and other non-cash operating
                        charges), debt service requirements all
                        cash dividends and other cash distributions
                        of surplus, increase in working capital
                        other than cash and other cash outflows
                        other than capital expenditures.
           (ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
                  difference between:
                  (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                        related to operations; and
                  (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                        lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                        of revenues in (A) above.
          (iii)   The term "working capital other than cash" means
                  the difference between current assets excluding
                  cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                  Financial Year.
           (iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                  all assets other than cash which could in the
                  ordinary course of business be converted into
                  cash within twelve months, including accounts
                  receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                  and prepaid expenses properly chargeable to
                  operating expenses within the next financial
                  year.
            (v)   The term "current liabilities" means all
                  liabilities which will become due and payable or
                  could under circumstances then existing be called
                  for payment within twelve months, including
                  accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                  requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
                  taxes, and dividends.
           (vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
                  aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                  fund payments, if any) of debt, and interest and
                  other charges thereon.
          (vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all
                  expenditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
                  including interest charged to construction,
                  related to operations.
      Section 5.07. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 5.05 and
5.06 it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the
Guarantor, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be
made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the power sector aspects of the Program, or a significant part
thereof, will be carried out;
      (b)   the provisions of Electricity Act 1985 of the Laws of
Page  9
the Guarantor, establishing the Borrower, shall have been materially
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations
under the Loan Agreement; and
      (c)   the reconstitution of the Central African Power
Corporation shall have been completed in a manner which affects
adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations
under the Loan Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has appointed a suitably qualified and
experienced Project Manager with terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank.
      Section 7.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
                 Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI)
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      For the Borrower:
            Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
            25 Samora Machel Avenue
            P.O. Box 377
            Harare
            Zimbabwe
                                           Telex:
                                             24323 ZW
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  10
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                  ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY
                  By /s/ Amos Midzi
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                               100% of foreign
    materials:                                  expenditures
    (a)  Distribution         11,000,000
         equipment and
         materials
         under Part A
         of the Project
    (b)  Equipment and        36,000,000
         spare parts
         under Part B
         of the Project
    (c)  Workshop equip-       3,500,000
         ment under
         Part D of the
         Project
    (d)  Vehicles under        4,400,000
         Part E of the
         Project
    (e)  Computer hard-        3,000,000
         ware and soft-
         ware under
         Part F of the
         Project
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) Consultants'                                100% of foreign
    services and                                expenditures
    training:
    (a)  Under Part B         18,000,000
         of the Project
Page  11
    (b)  Design services       1,800,000
         under Part C of
         the Project
    (c)  Under Part F            300,000
         of the Project
    (d)  Institutional         2,000,000
         support under
         Part G of the
         Project
(3) Unallocated               10,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                90,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to:
(i) minimize the shortage of power by improving the reliability and
the performance of its Hwange Power Plant; (ii) increase the
efficiency of its distribution system through loss reduction
measures and thereby to satisfy unmet demand; and (iii) better
manage power shortages through discriminative load shedding
measures.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Distribution
1.    Installation of about 53 MVA of 33/11kV distribution and 30
MVA of 132/11 kV substation transformer capacity, together with
switchgear and control equipment.
2.    Construction and reinforcement of about 50 kilometers of 132
kV, and reinforcement of about 100 kilometers of 33 kV and 75 kilo-
meters of 11 kV distribution lines.
3.    Installation of 7.5 MVAr of capacitors.
4.    Installation of ripple control devices and under frequency
relays for peak demand management and load shedding, including
acquisition of equipment and spare parts needed for upgrading of
existing ripple control equipment under measures.
Part B:     Hwange Operations and Upgrade
      Improvement of the reliability and performance of the Hwange
Power Plant through:
            (i)   provision of about 310 man-months of power plant
                  management and operations, including technical
                  auditing to further strengthen indigenous
                  capability and ensure sustainability in the
                  management of the Hwange Power Station;
           (ii)   acquisition of materials and spares needed to
Page  12
                  operate the power plant;
          (iii)   provision of about 200 man-months for proprietary
                  maintenance service contracts;
           (iv)   provision of services and equipment for major
                  overhaul of five of the six Stage I and Stage II
                  units;
            (v)   upgrading the capacity of the cooling water
                  systems, including construction of an additional
                  cooling tower and improving the quality of
                  cooling water;
           (vi)   replacement/upgrading of the pneumatic process
                  control by an electronic system and improving its
                  instrumentation and refurbishment of the air
                  conditioning plant and equipment;
          (vii)   acquisition of additional station transformer,
                  switchgear equipment, and transformer for standby
                  diesel generating sets; and
         (viii)   supervision of the implementation of the
                  upgrading program referred to in the preceding
                  paragraphs (v), (vi) and (vii).
Part C:     Hwange Stage III
      Carrying out of studies to: (i) review and update the design
and cost estimates and prepare bid and contract documents for the
Hwange Stage III extension; and (ii) prepare an updated project
document for use in arranging financing for such an extension.
Part D:     Workshop
      Acquisition of tools, machinery, equipment handling cranes and
electrical testing plant and equipment for the mechanical and
electrical workshops.
Part E:     Vehicles
      Acquisition of about 16 specialist heavy-duty vehicles and
specialized equipment for distribution works, including pick-ups and
four-wheel drive trucks.
Part F:     Management Information System (MIS)
1.    Acquisition of additional computer hardware and software to
complete the Borrower's MIS improvement program.
2.    Provision for computer-aided cash-receipting facilities for
load limited consumers in Bulawayo, Harare and Chitungwiza.
3.    Provision of technical advisory services to strengthen MIS
operations.
Part G:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Carrying out of a training program to strengthen indigenous
capability in the technical and financial areas.
2.    Carrying out of various studies critical to the operations of
the Borrower.
                      *          *          *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                      Amortization Schedule
Page  13
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1999                              1,705,000
March 15, 2000                                  1,765,000
September 15, 2000                              1,830,000
March 15, 2001                                  1,900,000
September 15, 2001                              1,965,000
March 15, 2002                                  2,040,000
September 15, 2002                              2,110,000
March 15, 2003                                  2,190,000
September 15, 2003                              2,270,000
March 15, 2004                                  2,350,000
September 15, 2004                              2,435,000
March 15, 2005                                  2,525,000
September 15, 2005                              2,615,000
March 15, 2006                                  2,710,000
September 15, 2006                              2,810,000
March 15, 2007                                  2,915,000
September 15, 2007                              3,020,000
March 15, 2008                                  3,130,000
September 15, 2008                              3,240,000
March 15, 2009                                  3,360,000
September 15, 2009                              3,480,000
March 15, 2010                                  3,610,000
September 15, 2010                              3,740,000
March 15, 2011                                  3,875,000
September 15, 2011                              4,015,000
March 15, 2012                                  4,165,000
September 15, 2012                              4,315,000
March 15, 2013                                  4,470,000
September 15, 2013                              4,635,000
March 15, 2014                                  4,810,000
________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                          The interest rate (ex-
                                          pressed as a percentage
                                          per annum) applicable to
                                          the Loan on the day of
                                          prepayment multiplied
                                          by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                      0.90
Page  14
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.
3.    For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods
imported under the Project, no price verification shall be conducted
in respect of those goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured  in Zimbabwe may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for the supply and installation of proprietary goods
under Part B of the Project shall be procured on a negotiated basis
from the original manufacturer or authorized representatives of such
goods, on terms satisfactory to the Bank provided however that the
aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed $29,000,000
equivalent.
2.    Workshop equipment which cannot be grouped in bidding packages
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured
Page  15
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proceduresshall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of Contract for Consultants' Services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed upon
with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank, and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  16
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                  from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                  Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                  have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
Page  17
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
