Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
                                                                                                             Report No.:  
AB2819
 
Project Name 
Development Policy Operation (DPO) I 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other domestic and internationa
l trade (25%); General public 
administration sector (45%); Genera
l finance sector (15%); Health 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P096205 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Date PID Prepared 
February 14, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 9, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
March 29, 2007 
 
1.
 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Over 1996-2005, Albania grew at an average rate of 5.7 pe
rcent, higher than any comparator group of countries, 
accompanied by macroeconomic stability through most of
 the period.  Social sector outcomes have improved, 
albeit modestly.  Growth has also had a major impact 
on poverty reduction, with the poverty headcount declining 
from 25 percent in 2002 to 19 percent in 
2005.  However, sustaining this fast
 growth will require continuation of 
significant reforms in several areas.  Improving delive
ry of public services, a poverty and human development 
imperative, will also need significan
t policy and institutional changes. 
The impressive growth performance sin
ce 1993 has been based on factors that 
are unlikely to provide the same 
impetus to growth in the future.  Past growth has b
een dependent mostly on non-tradable sectors, and almost 
solely on reallocation-based TFP growth as opposed to factor
 accumulation, and private investment averaged no 
more than 19 percent of GDP over 2000-05. Also, while
 macroeconomic stability and 
a decline in the fiscal 
deficit have underpinned recent growth, the quality of fi
scal adjustment has been weak. Key bottlenecks to capital 
accumulation appear to exist in the demand for savings, alt
hough there are some supply side concerns as well.  On 
the demand side, investment is low because of low profitabilit
y, especially in tradables.  In turn, low profitability 
can be traced to corruption and bribery, high payroll ta
xation, unfair competition, tax 
harassment, and inadequate 
infrastructure (especially energy and roads).  Supply of sav
ings to the productive sector appears to be constrained 
by inadequacies in land titling and collateral execution.  
TFP growth in the private sector is constrained by the cost
 and quality of government 
services (such as education, 
health, roads, energy, etc;), the quality of the regulatory environment (investment climate) provided by 
government, and the mechanisms for allocation and realloca
tion of resources. Therefore, sustaining past growth 
will need significant increases in capital accumulation and cont
inuation, albeit from alternative sources, of high 
TFP growth. A further boost to growth from this sour
ce will require improved fiscal adjustment including better 
investment management and public expe
nditure management in general.   
Along with growth, improvement in service delivery is 
key to further poverty reduction. Social services in 
Albania are characterized by inadequate quality as well as 
access, and are faced with 
a long development agenda.  
Outcomes are not commensurate with the Albania PRSP 
(NSSED) objectives, and lag behind other South East 
European countries.  In education, student learning outco
mes and sectoral management capacity is inadequate.  In 
health, the sector is poorly prepared to face the rising in
cidence of non-communicable diseases, and the quality of 
service delivery is low.  In social assistance, high social
 insurance rates coexist with
 fiscal imbalances in the 
social insurance system, as well as limited protection to 
rural beneficiaries. The water sector, with an increasing 
share of government spending, has also shown poor perfo
rmance.  Access levels ar
e low (63% access to water 
supply, 50% access to sanitation); service quality is poor 
(6 hours water supply per day); and systems experience 
high losses (over 70% is non-revenue earning water) caused by
 dilapidated infrastructure, illegal connections and 
high wastage of water that results from low tariffs and me
tering of only 20% of connections.  This affects health 
Page  2
and welfare, especially of the poor.  It also affects poten
tial private sector investment, especially in rural and 
tourist areas.  
 
2.
 
Operation Objectives  
 
The operation is part of a programmatic series of three 
Development Policy Operations, designed to support some 
of the key aspects of the Government program aimed at
 tackling the twin challenges of sustaining growth 
(primarily through private sector development), and im
proving delivery of public social services.  A third 
objective, improving governance and strengthening account
ability mechanisms, will be the main cross-cutting 
objective of the DPO.   
 
Improving the investment climate for private sector-led growth.  
The focus on growth continues from the 
previous PRSC program, and also follows from the ne
w Government’s priorities.  The proposed DPOs will 
support some of the major actions to
 reduce constraints to growth by
 
strengthening the regulatory environment for 
business, improving the oversight of the non-bank financ
ial sector, and improving the functioning of land 
markets.  Private sector growth will also be impacted signi
ficantly by the other pillars of the DPO, such as service 
delivery in water and health, public investment programs,
 public expenditure manageme
nt in general, and public 
administration.  
 
Improving fiscal sustainability and eff
ectiveness of public service delivery.  
The focus here will be on the 
health, social insurance and water sectors.  Actions w
ill address health financing, the health sector regulatory 
framework, the pension policy and its implementation, 
and the policy and incentive framework in the water 
sector.   
 
Improving government effectiveness.  
These would follow the governance prin
ciples enumerated in the CAS, 
including improving public financial management, furt
hering reforms in public administration, and advancing 
decentralization through support to strengthening of local finances.
   
 
3.
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank has been a critical partne
r for Albania since it began on the path
 of market reforms.  In the recent 
past, the PRSC program has helped shape the direction 
of reform in many critical areas.  The proposed DPO 
program builds on the past PRSCs, and incorporates 
lessons learnt from the latter experience.   
While the new Government’s reform program is ambitious
, the DPO program provides a vehicle for prioritization 
and sequencing of reforms, keeping 
the growth and poverty reduction objectiv
es in the forefront. Thus, the above-
mentioned objectives of the proposed DPO
 
mirror the objectives of the CAS. The DPO aims to support Albania’s 
National Strategy for Social and Ec
onomic Development (NSSED), the ne
eds of the European integration 
process, the Government’s development program, and th
e needs of the European integration process.   
 
The DPO takes into account work being done by other de
velopment partners, and also complement the Bank’s 
own investment lending in many different areas. Techni
cal assistance to prepare and/or implement the proposed 
reforms would be financed through the ongoing PHRD 
grant (financed by the Gove
rnment of Japan) as well as 
complementary investment projects in health, private 
sector development, land mana
gement, and water.  The 
Health Sector Modernization Project focuses on improvement
s in primary health care delivery, health financing 
and health sector governance and management. The 
Business Environment Reform and Institutional 
Strengthening (BERIS) Project will assist the government 
in the area of improving the business environment and 
Improvement, while the Land Administration and Management Project will provide technical assistance for 
completing land registration and reforming the system of pr
operty taxation.  There are also two active projects in 
the water sector.  
 
The DPO1 complements other donor interventions a
nd has been designed in close consultation and 
coordination with other donors. The DPO has been designed in conjunction with the IMF’s  PRGF/EA 
program to ensure consistency and complementarity.  
In addition, DFID (recently joined by SIDA and the 
Netherlands) has been an active development partner in
 public expenditure management, while the EC and, 
more recently, USAID/MCA, have been focusing on s
upporting procurement system 
reform.  Several other 
Page  3
donors, including UNDP, SIDA, OSCE, WHO, KfW, and others, work in DPO-supported areas and thus 
provide   
 
4.
 
Financing: $10 million 
 
5.
 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Overall implementation, coordination and monitoring for th
e proposed DPO program will be done by the Ministry 
of Finance and the Department of Strategy and Donor C
oordination (DSDC).  A core inter-ministerial DPO team 
was constituted in May 2006, co-chaired by the Deputy Minist
er of Finance and the Director of the Department of 
Strategy and Donor Coordination, and co
mprising senior officials of the relevant ministry/institution.  This group 
meets regularly to discuss strategy and implementa
tion issues, and produces implementation updates.   
 
The Government is cognizant of the need for monitori
ng and outcome evaluation.  The DPO will support the 
design and implementation of the government’s Integrated 
Planning System Information Systems (IPSIS) to help 
in the evaluation of the DPO outcomes. Specific respons
ibility for monitoring each outcome indicator is being 
assigned to the respective ministries/institutions, under the 
coordination of the DSDC. In parallel, the Bank team 
will focus on outcomes, taking the evolving situation in
to account. The policy matrix for the operation sets out 
benchmarks and indicative prior actio
ns for future operations.  The Bank will focus on these benchmarks and 
triggers, and take into account evol
ving country developments and stakeholder support as it assesses progress 
towards the outcomes of the program.  Necessary adjustment
s will be made to the future program to take account 
of these reviews.  
 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The DPO is an instrument for continued Bank engageme
nt in strategic policy dialogue in a country where 
improving governance and capacity are at a premium, and 
can provide benefits well beyond the flow of funds. 
First, the approval of the DPO program will provide 
strong signaling effects and credibility for the new 
Government, in terms of progress in the implementation of 
its structural policy agenda
, both to other development 
partners and to private sector investors. Second, and gi
ven the Government’s ambitious development program, the 
DPO is expected to help focus this program in terms 
of strategic priorities for sustaining growth and improving 
service delivery, and help sequence policy actions. Third,
 the DPO is providing a forum for policy coordination 
across different agencies of Government and is reinforci
ng the Government’s nascent Integrated Planning System. 
Finally, 
t
he DPO priorities support a core set of actions th
at will enhance Albania’s prospects for eventual 
integration into the EU, a key goal for Albania.  
 
Risks  
 
There is a risk that hard-won gains in the institutional 
framework, can be at least partially reversed.  Political 
stalemates, especially at times of local or national elec
tions, can threaten reform progress as well as passage of 
legislation. To reduce such risks, and improve the ch
ances of positive development outcomes, the proposed first 
DPO has singled out strong prior action in these areas, 
including legal reforms in procurement, concessions, and 
budgetary management and improved compliance with the civil service law.   
 
The weak capacity of the administration constitut
es a significant risk. While the PRSC program and 
complementary programs of donors had helped to build up 
capacity across a broad spectrum, there is concern that 
some of this improvement has been undermined by mana
gement changes in several key agencies (however, at 
least in taxes and customs, there have been significan
t improvements in revenue collection despite large-scale 
changes in staffing).  To the extent possible, this con
cern is being mitigated by prior action on compliance with 
the civil service framework, as well as capacity enhanc
ement and knowledge generation with investment 
operations and/or technical assistance in many critical 
areas, and knowledge produc
ts before and during the 
DPOs.  A PHRD grant to help prepare DPO2 has been
 provided to the Albanian authorities by the Japanese 
government. Finally, development part
ners’ support in several critical areas will also help shore up capacity. 
 
Page  4
The risks on the macroeconomic front are low to moderate
. The current account deficit over the period is forecast 
to decline gradually over the period, fro
m about 6.5 percent in 2005 to about 5.3 percent.  An increasing part of 
this deficit is expected to be financed by FDI, forecast
 to increase from 3.3 to 3.8 percent of GDP.  Both these 
tasks of attracting FDI and sustaining exports will require 
a significant improvement in the investment climate for 
the private sector, and is the biggest challenge on the m
acroeconomic front.  An additional concern arises from the 
fast credit growth over the last two years, albeit from
 a very low base.  However, the banking system is 
considered to be well-capitalized, and is resilient as indi
cated by recent simulated stress tests.  Also, the DPO 
program is accompanied by a flexible financial sector 
TA, which can respond to an emerging situation.  Close 
collaboration with the IMF and regular dialogue on th
e implementation of the PRGF/EA program allows for 
continued monitoring of the macroeconomic situation. 
Finally, periodic recurrence of electricity crises (as 
occurred in 2005 and 2006) can affect the sustainability of 
growth if fundamental reforms in the energy sector are 
not accelerated. In the short term, the current crisis coul
d widen the current account deficit to higher than forecast 
levels, if increased imports of electricity at higher th
an planned prices dampen the positive impact from higher 
export growth.
 
6.
 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
Some key policy measures that will be supported by the DPO 
are expected to have a distributional impact. First, 
impending tariff increases and efforts to improve bill coll
ection could have adverse effects on the poor, especially 
the rural poor who currently have access and don’t pay thei
r bills. An on-going PSIA, using the latest household 
survey, quantifies the welfare loss for 
three tariff options. In all three scenarios, the estimated welfare losses 
appear modest, and the estimated water budget shares for 
all quintiles also seem to be below the affordability 
range of the 3 percent of expenditures set by the EU. Sec
ond, to improve fiscal sustainability of health financing, 
co-payments for prescription drugs for all beneficiaries have
 been introduced and a more controlled list of drugs 
eligible for coverage has been enfo
rced.  These measures could lead to adverse welfare consequences. Finally, 
proposals to strengthen financial sustainability and effe
ctiveness of pensions include (a) establishing a truly 
contributory system which ties benefits to contributions, 
or (b) abolishing the contributory system and providing 
old age grants to individuals above a certain age.  Th
e distributional consequences will depend on how eligibility 
rules and the benefits levels are defined unde
r each one of the broad reform areas.   
 
The Bank is assisting the government to better assess the di
stributional consequences of reforms and in design of 
mitigation mechanisms, though various instruments. The 
Bank plans to help the Government to lay out the 
options for establishing a modern, flexible, and efficien
t cash transfer program (Ndihma Ekonomike- NE) that 
includes an adequate level of fiscally sustainable benefits
, as well as efficient targeting. With the support of the 
ongoing Social Services Development Project (SSDP), th
e Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs and Equal 
Opportunities (MOLSA) is currently reviewing the NE program for: efficiency in targeting the poor; 
administrative hurdles that discourage the poor from 
participating; and strengthening the monitoring and 
evaluation system.  
 
An ongoing programmatic poverty assessment will continue de
tailed analytical work on poverty issues, following 
the recent updating of the knowledge base on the size, depth 
and distribution of poverty in Albania, and will 
provide or supplement critical PSIA work.  The 2008 LSMS 
and, where possible, interim surveys, will track the 
poverty impact of changes in policies, in particular in 
water, pensions and health. 
An ongoing programmatic PEIR 
will help to assess the fiscal consequences of mitigation measures.   
 
Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed policies supported by the DPO are unlikely to have any significant negative effect on the 
environment.   
 
The impact of increased water 
tariffs is expected to be o
ffset by targeted subsidies to protect poor customers. This 
measure, by allowing water tariffs to 
better reflect their real cost, is aimed at encouraging metered consumers to 
rationalize water consumption, save water, and use it mo
re efficiently.  The reduc
tion in operating subsidies 
would also help free public resources to support investment
s in wastewater collection and wastewater treatment in 
Page  5
the medium-term.  However, there could be a potentia
l short-term negative impact of increased tariffs if 
households move to cheaper and ofte
n dirtier water resources which may 
then have a negative public health 
impact.  This will be monitored more 
carefully during program implementation. 
 
In the business environment area, the adoption and rigorous
 implementation of the ‘regulatory impact assessment’ 
(RIA) system would help ensure that environmental matte
rs are taken into account in the preparation of business 
regulations. Also, the introduction of economic analysis in
 the planning process and in
to the environment impact 
assessment procedure will help to assess 
the broader costs of any major public investment, including its longer 
term environmental and social costs.  
 
7.
 
Contact point 
 
Contact: Sanjay Kathuria 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-8155 
Fax: (202) 614-7766 
Email: Skathuria@worldbank.org 
 
8.
 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop) 
 
