Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2398 
Operation Name 
Development Policy Loan (DPL) I 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other domestic and international trade (25%); General public 
administration sector (45%); General finance sector (15%); Health 
(15%) 
Project ID 
P096205 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE, GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA 
Date PID Prepared 
May 23, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 25, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 19, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Over 1996-2005, Albania grew at an average rate of 5.7 percent, higher than any comparator 
group of countries, accompanied by macroeconomic stability through most of the period.  Social 
sector outcomes have improved, albeit modestly.  While extreme (food) poverty is low, overall 
poverty remains widespread, at 25 percent in 2002
—although continued high growth since 2002 
means that the 2005 poverty numbers are expected to show some decline.   
However, sustaining this fast growth will require continuation of significant reforms in several 
areas.  And improving delivery of public services, a poverty and human development imperative, 
and which will be a key input into growth as well, will also need significant policy and 
institutional changes.  
Sustaining growth 
There are strong reasons to believe that Albania’s pace of growth is not sustainable with current 
underlying structures.  One, a broad based expansion of tradables has yet to occur, with non-
tradable sectors contributing most to growth since the start of the transition (1993-2003).  The 
slowdown in recent total factor productivity (TFP) growth is part of this story (CEM, 2004).  
Also, factor accumulation has only picked up modestly, and private investment averaged no 
more than 19 percent of GDP over 2000-05.  Two, domestic savings at 19 percent of GDP are 
too low to sustain the required acceleration in capital accumulation.  Three, the high level of net 
external resource transfers may not be sustainable in the medium-term, with concessional aid set 
to decline, privatization proceeds flagging, remittances (at 14 percent of GDP) unlikely to rise 
over time, and prospects for access to commercial borrowing remaining constrained by weak 
export potential.  Four, while the public sector deficit has declined over 2001-2005 from 7.9 to 
3.8 percent of GDP, the quality of fiscal adjustment has remained weak, with the decline arising 
largely from a decline in capital spending; and prioritization and efficiency of expenditure 
remain weak, reducing the impact of government spending.  
Therefore, sustaining past growth will need significant increases in capital accumulation and 
continuation, albeit from alternative sources, of high TFP growth. 
Key bottlenecks to capital accumulation appear to exist in the demand for savings, although there 
are some supply side concerns as well.  On the demand side, investment is low because of low 
Page  2
profitability, especially in tradables.  In turn, low profitability can be traced to corruption and 
bribery, high payroll taxation, unfair competition, tax harassment, and inadequate infrastructure 
(especially energy and roads).  Supply of savings to the productive sector appears to be 
constrained by inadequacies in land titling and collateral execution (although access to finance is 
not a major complaint of business in the BEEPS or FIAS/GoA surveys) (See Annex 1 for a 
growth diagnostics chart for Albania.)  
TFP growth that emanated from reallocation of resources has slowed significantly in recent 
years.  Constraints to new sources of TFP growth include education and skill availability; entry 
and exit barriers for firms (new firms usually bring with them better technology); and 
government institutions that create high transaction costs for firms, reduce learning 
opportunities, and encourage sub-optimal resource allocation.   
Improving delivery of public services 
Improving public service delivery
 is the other pillar of the government’s development agenda.  
Along with growth, this is key to further poverty reduction, including rural poverty reduction.  
Moreover, public service improvement is not only an end in itself, it is also an instrument for a 
more productive work force and thereby for growth.  
Social services in Albania are characterized by inadequate quality as well as access, and are 
faced with a long development agenda.  Outcomes are not commensurate with the Albania PRSP 
(NSSED) objectives, and lag behind other South East European countries.  In education, student 
learning outcomes and sectoral management capacity is inadequate.  In health, the sector is 
poorly prepared to face the rising incidence of non-communicable diseases, and the quality of 
service delivery is low.  In social assistance, high social insurance rates coexist with fiscal 
imbalances in the social insurance system, as well as limited protection to rural beneficiaries.   
The water sector, with an increasing share of government spending (four fold increase to 1.2% of 
GDP since 2001), has also shown poor performance.  Access levels are low (63% access to water 
supply, 50% access to sanitation); service quality is poor (6 hours water supply per day); and 
systems experience high losses (over 70% is non-revenue earning water) caused by dilapidated 
infrastructure, illegal connections and high wastage of water that results from low tariffs and 
metering of only 20% of connections.  This affects health and welfare, especially of the poor.  It 
also affects potential private sector investment, especially in rural areas.  While increasing 
investments are needed to meet these challenges, the water utility sector has shown poor 
financial performance. 
While the diagnosis on critical constraints varies across sectors, existing financing patterns and 
inadequacies in sectoral governance structures are common problems.
 
In health and water 
services, and even in education, co-payments or user fees are too low.  In all these sectors, 
structures and incentives for private sector involvement are inadequate.  Finally, across all 
sectors, the decentralization of service delivery poses severe challenges.   
Rationale for Bank involvement 
The World Bank has been a critical partner for Albania since it began on the path of market 
reforms.  In the recent past, the PRSC program has helped shape the direction of reform in many 
critical areas.  The current DPL program intends to build on the past PRSCs, and incorporate 
lessons learnt from the latter experience.  While the new Government’s reform program is 
ambitious, the DPL program seeks to provide a vehicle for prioritization and sequencing of 
reforms, keeping the growth and poverty reduction objectives in the forefront.  The DPL will 
Page  3
also take into account work being done by other development partners, and also complement the 
Bank’s own investment lending in many different areas.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed DPL program is intended to be a series of three programmatic and single-tranche 
credits/loans.  It will support measures to tackle the twin challenges of sustaining growth through 
private sector development, and improving delivery of social services.  This focus also mirrors 
the twin pillars of the CAS, given that the ‘DPL program…will be a microcosm of the whole 
CAS, supporting most of its major policy goals and results’ (FY06-09 CAS).  The CAS strategy 
is based, in turn, on Albania’s National Strategy for Social and Economic Development, the 
needs of the European integration process, the Democratic Party-led Government’s development 
program, and consultations with stakeholders in Albania. 
The specific objectives of the proposed DPL program are to provide support for actions to:       
(i) improve the investment climate for private sector led growth – strengthen non-bank financial 
sector regulation and supervision, improve the quality of regulations affecting business, and 
improve the functioning of land markets; (ii) improve the fiscal sustainability of public services, 
including health, social insurance, and water; and (iii) implement core governance actions to 
improve government effectiveness – increase efficiency and accountability of public spending, 
improve efficiency and continue de-politicization of public administration, and strengthen local 
government finances and demarcate urban planning responsibilities.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
Some of the critical actions being undertaken by the Government as part of DPL I include 
reforms in the concessions and procurement laws, as well as in the Organic Budget Law 
(including local government budget law); putting in place a long-term framework for reform of 
the health sector, and actions to reduce the deficit in health expenditure; and improving 
procedures and framework for public investment management. Details of the proposed measures 
under each of the broad areas follow.  
A. 
Improving the Investment Climate for Private Sector-Led Growth
Strengthen non-bank financial sector regulation and supervision to minimize chances of 
crisis.   
The proposed DPLs would support the sound development of the non-bank financial 
sector, with a focus on governance issues.  This would include strengthening the regulation of 
the sector and the capacity of the regulator to conduct effective supervision, and supporting the 
consolidation of regulation of the non-bank financial sector.  
Strengthen regulatory environment for business.  
 The DPLs would support the establishment 
of a sustainable institutional framework to improve, monitor and fine-tune regulatory reforms.  
The DPL will also target some of the cross-cutting regulatory impediments—such as business 
licensing and inspections—for specific improvement.  Also, the DPL proposes to support a new 
and transparent law on concessions that would help level the playing field and improved 
transparency and efficiency of public private partnerships.      
Improve functioning of land markets.  
The proposed DPLs would support actions to establish 
an autonomous regulator for land markets in order to improve the land registration process. 
B. 
Improving Fiscal Sustainability of Public Service Delivery 
Page  4
Improve fiscal sustainability of health financing.  
The proposed DPL program will support 
Government plans to move from a fragmented and input- based health finance system to a more 
streamlined single source system.  The DPL will also support plans to adopt and implement a 
revised legal framework for health financing and health care provision, which will allow HII to 
directly contract with providers and make payments based on performance.  Moreover, in the 
short run, DPL I will support Government efforts to curb the rapidly increasing HII expenditures 
on prescription drugs, to ensure fiscal sustainability of HII.  In the area of health sector 
Page  5
investments, the DPL program will support Government efforts to develop and adopt a hospital 
network master plan as a basis for future hospital sector investment decisions.  
Strengthen financial sustainability and effectiveness of social insurance.  
The proposed DPL 
program aims to support Government efforts to restructure the social insurance system
—with the 
objectives of fiscal sustainability, better coverage and reducing the tax burden on labor.  The 
latter is important for the business agenda, given the major problem of unfair competition (much 
of which arises from non-payment of due taxes by informal sector firms).  Concrete actions to be 
supported by the DPL program will follow after preparation of a pension and social insurance 
policy, which will be supported by World Bank analytical work.   
Improve fiscal sustainability of water services.  
The proposed DPL I would support the 
development of an Action Plan for phased removal of operational subsidies to water utilities, and 
detailing a performance-based policy for resource transfers to these utilities to cover investment 
costs.  Subsequent DPLs would support implementation of the Action Plan.   
C. 
Implementing Core Governance Actions to improve Government Effectiveness 
Increase efficiency and accountability of public spending.   
Given scarce resources and a 
governance-challenged environment, the proposed DPL will focus on maximizing the overall 
and within-sector impact of government spending, and improving accountability.  Key elements 
of this agenda include: a) improving the planning, budgeting and execution of public investment 
projects; b) improving resource utilization through reforms in the Organic Budget Law and 
Procurement Laws, and roll-out of an expanded Treasury system.  
 
Improve efficiency and continue de-politicization of public administration.   
The proposed 
DPL program will support the public administration reform program, by safeguarding progress 
made so far and ensuring full compliance with the Civil Service Law.  In addition, it will support 
expanded coverage of a merit-based bureaucracy (within the parameters of fiscal sustainability) 
to encompass a larger numbers of officials with direct involvement in service delivery, in 
particular in line ministries and in local governments.
 
Strengthen local finance and demarcate urban planning responsibilities.  
The proposed DPL 
program will support new laws on local government finance (including conditions for local 
borrowing), regulation of municipal insolvency, and adoption of regulations on local budgeting 
that are consistent with the Organic Budget Law.  It will also support a new law on Urban 
Planning which will assign clear responsibilities to local, regional and central governments. 
4. 
Environment Aspects
 
The proposed policies supported by the operation are unlikely to have any significant negative 
effect on the environment.  One possible positive effect arises from the proposed policy to 
increase water tariffs, which could lead to reduced usage and lesser wastage of water, especially 
once water metering reaches a significant percentage of the population.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
10 
Total 10 
6. 
Contact point
 
Contact: Sanjay Kathuria 
Title: Lead Economist 
Page  6
Tel: (202) 458-8155 
Fax: (202) 614-7766 
Email: Skathuria@worldbank.org
 
