Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4282 ALB 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(First Development Policy Operation) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 10, 2007  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4282 ALB 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 10, 2007, entered into between ALBANIA (
“Recipient”) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose 
of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter 
alia, of (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and 
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Recipient and 
the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,800,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
 
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.   
 
To this end:  
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the 
event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the 
Association to the Recipient. 
 
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Ministry of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
Tirana, Albania 
 
Facsimile:  
 
355 42 28494 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By /s/ Ridvan Bode 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Nadir Mohammed 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
 
1. 
The Recipient has completed a review and prepared recommendations for 
eliminating superfluous licensing requirements in the hydrocarbon, mining, fishery, 
public works, health, education, agriculture, environment, forestry, water administration, 
fire safety, customs, construction and transportation sectors. 
 
2. 
A new Concessions Law, providing for a transparent and fully competitive 
bidding system, has been enacted, and changes to the implementing regulations, 
satisfactory to the Association, have been approved by the Council of Ministers or the 
Minister of Economy, Trade and Energy, respectively. 
 
3. 
Legislation for the establishment of one integrated, non-banking financial 
regulator has been enacted. 
 
4. 
A new Public Procurement Law, providing for an improved complaints review, 
making open tenders the default procedure, granting civil servant status to the head of the 
Public Procurement Agency (PPA), increasing the applicability of multi-year contracting, 
and mandating the publishing of tender documents and outcomes on a timely basis, has 
been enacted. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has taken action, satisfactory to the Association, to stem the deficit 
of the Health Insurance Institute and curb pharmaceutical expenditures. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has made progress, satisfactory to the Association, on improved 
public investment management procedures and practices.   
 
 
7. 
The Recipient has provided evidence, satisfactory to the Association, of the 
consistency of specific personnel actions falling within the scope of the Civil Service
 
Law, its subsidiary legislation and rules regulating human resource management of civil 
servants in central Government positions.
 
Page  7
6
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.    
 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 
2017 to and including October 1, 2026: 
 
5% 
 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid, except as 
the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
 
Description of Item 
 
112 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
 
Page  10
9
718  
 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
 
728 
 
728.43  
 
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
 
897  
 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Financing 
proceeds during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  11
10
2. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
3. 
“Health Insurance Institute” means the Instituti I Sigurimeve Shendetesore, 
established pursuant to Law No. 7870 of October 13, 1994. 
 
4. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated February 21, 2007, from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
5. 
“Public Procurement Agency” or “PPA” means the entity referenced in Article 
13 of Law No. 9643 of November 20, 2006. 
 
6. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing referenced in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions  
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  12
11
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
