Documnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rep"t No.8542
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-CO)
APRIL 17, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.    >                         ~~~~~~~J -.
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currene  Unit                      Colombian Peso (ColS)
Appraisal 1980 US$1            -         ColS 50.0
January 1989 US$1              _         Col$ 339.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAJA         -   Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
FEDEARROZ    -   Federacion Nacional de Arroceros
(National Federation of Rice Growers)
HIMAT        -   Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
e^decuacion de Tierras
(Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and
Land Improvement)
ICA          -   Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
INCORA       -   Instituto Colombiario de la Reforma Agraria
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
SENA         -   Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Apprenticeship Service)
GOVERMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOM   MIAL USK ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washpon. D.C. 20433
UIA.
Olkfie o f 0Mgc.Coww
April 17, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Colombia
Irritation Rehabilitation I Pro_ect (Loan 1996-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project (Loan
1996-CO), prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this tzime.
Attachment
I This document has  restrvicted disibuton    my be uwsd bY t etus oly in t pefmC
of dtit McWdutias.Its cawats may not othewise be disclosd witmou WOWl Sank autbouinlion



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENS
Paze No.
Preface ....................... 
Evaluation Summary .................i...
Part I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .       ...............1
A.  Project Identity .     .      .     ..............................................  1
B.  Project Background ...........       .      ...................................  1
C.  Project Objectives and Description                .     ..            1
D. Project Design and Organization                   . .            .   2
E.  Project Implementation ..        .      ........................................  3
F.    Project  Results                ..................................................  4
G.  Project Sustainability ... .       .     ................................. .  7
H.  Bank Peformance ..................................................  7
I.  Borrower Performance ................................... . .. .......  8
J.  Project Relationship .................       .     .     ..........  8
K.  Consulting Services .......................  8
L.  Project Documentation and Data ................       .................. .  9
Part II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIVE ................... 10
0,
Part III - STATISTICAL INFiRs&TION  ................................  15
- Table 1 - Related Bank Loans.............................  15
- Table 2 - Project Timetable  ............................  16
- Table 3 - Loan Disbursement  ............................  20
- Table 4 -Project Costs         .......*................   21
- Table 5 - Direct Benefits    ........................2
- Table 6 - Status of Covenants ........... .........,...  28
- Table 7 -Staff Inputs  .............                          30
Map No. - IBRD 15418, February 1981
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by cipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wodd Bnk authodzation.



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation
Rehabilitation I Project in Colombia, for which Loan 1996-CO in the amount
of US$37.0 million was approved on April 16, 1982. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1988, six months behind schedule. The loan has been fully
disbursed (US$34.4 million), taking into account the US$2.6 million which
was cancelled, due to savings, on September 8, 1987. Final disbursement
was on June 30, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Su-mary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part IZ).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in July 1988, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report: the Loan &ad Guarantee Agreements;
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-CO'
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
The main objectives of the project were to: (a) halt
deterioration of existing irrigation infrastructure (canals, dikes,
ttructures and roads); (b) construct new irrigation infrastructure to
improve ase of available water and land resources; (c) improve the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure; (d) improve
livestock farming methods and increase yields of irrigated crops, including
the introduction of rice cultivation in basins; (e) provide technical and
seasonal short- and medium-term financial assistance to allow beneficiary
farmers to improve their production capability; (f) gradual transfer
responsibilities for operating and maintaining the irrigation and drainage
works to the user associations; and (g) strengthening the Borrower's staff
capability in the areas of water management, appraisal and supervision of
irrigation works (para. 4).
Implementation Experience
Apart from a loan closing date extension of six months, the
project was implemented as planned. At times, the project suffered from
insufficient counterpart funds. However, Bank actions, such as retroactive
financing, use of a Special Account, introduction of uniform international
competitive bidding procedureis of Bank loans in Colombia, and modification
to Loan Agreement to allow H&MT to contract civil works up to project
closing date, contributed favourably to successful project implementation
(para. 10). Of the potential risks identified by the appraisal mission,
only the farmers' reluctance to invest in land levelling was of significant
consequence (para. 11).  Final project costs were _out US$80.5 million,
93Z of appraisal estimate of US$86.3 million (para. 14, Table 4).
Results
The objectives for the major civil works, comprising
rehabilitation of eight irrigation districts were fully met (para. 16).
But the appraisal target for land levelling of 12,400 ha was not achieved,
with only 5,700 ha levelled (462 of appraisal target). A contributing
factor was the lack of suitab.' land levelling equipment available in the
private sector, and HIMAT's limited experience with on-farm development
works. Consequently, there is still a need for more videspread use of land
levelling techniques (para. 17). The objective of financing feasibility



- iii -
studies for a second phase project was reached (pare. 18). The project
training program was very successful. Activities included training for
technicians and farmers through informal courses at national and district
levels, and training in administrative and managerial aspects for the water
users' associations (para. 19). Project objectives for extension services
were not fully met because of inadequate emphasis by ICA to on-farm water
management (para. 20). Likewise tha objective of preparing districts for
financial independence from the Government and for their transition into
independent water management authorities was not fully reached.
Improvements were slow in the level and structure of water tariffs to
recover O&H costs (para. 21).
The actual economic rate of return of the project is estimated to
be 342 compared with the appraisal estimate of 50Z. The projett has
contributed significantly to the growth of the agricultural seceor, with
about 77,000 ha being cropped annually in the eight districta, which is 362
more than the pre-project situation and compares with the SA2 fucremental
area at full development of 412 (para. 24, Table 5).
SustainabiLity
The project significantly contributed to strengthening HVAT*'s
management. Because of HIMAT's satisfactory perfor&ance, it has received
two subsequent Bank loans (Loan 26e7-CO, signed on May 27, 1986 and
Loan 3113-CO, approved in August 1989 and ready to be signed). In
particular sustainability has been enhanced by HIMAT's and Government's
recent decision to be more active in improving the level and structure of
water tariffs, with the view to having irrigation districts attain
financial independence (para. 25).
Lessons Learned
Some useful lessons have been learned from this experience for
both the Bank and the Borrower:
(a) annual rather than semi-annual progress reports from HIMAT
proved to be adequate and, to encourage more focus on
productivity aspects, semi-annual evaluation reports on the
agricultural impact of the project proved to be useful;
(b) contracting of demonstration services (for land levelling) to
a private producers'organization (PEDEARROZ) proved to be very
successful;
(c) provision for the automatic suspension of disbursements on a
district basis, when the Borrower failed to meet billing and
collection of water charges, proved easy to apply;
(d) the establisbment of the Project Special Account was crucial
and ensured HIMAT's liquidity during project implementation;
(e) the introduction of standard bidding documents under Bank
loans in Colombia greatly accelerated ICB and LCB activities;



- iv -
(f) Inclusion of project in the Bank's Special Action Program
helped to overcome severe counterpart funding problemst
(8) procurement efficiencies, which have been applied in the
follow-on project (Loan 2667-CO), were determined by carrying
out equipment purchases in a few consolidated ICBs rather than
several processes each year. Also, the winning bidders have
been required to train HIMAT's mechanics and equipment
operators;
(h) decentralization of administrative and accounting
responsibilities to the Irrigation Distric, led to improved
accounting procedures, which raised HIMAT's awareness as to
the real administrative and O&M costs of providing irrigation.
HIMAT is now conducting studies in each district to more
accurately determine costs (parse. 27 and 29); and
Mi) in irrigation/drainage development projects in which the main
executing agency is an engineering agency, it is essential to
ensure that adequate emphasis is given to the non-civil works
and on-farm development and services components from the
outset.



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILISATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-gO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I - Proiect Review from Bank's Persgective
A. Proiect Identity
- Project Name:  Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project
- Loan No.    s 1996-CO
- RVP Unit    : Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department III
- Country     s Colombia
- Sector      s Agriculture
- Subsector   s Irrigation
B. Proisect Background
1.       Sector Develoment Obiectives.  The objectives put forward at the
time of the project were tot increase resource productivity in the
agricultural sector; improve efficiency and competitiveness of the
marketing system: develop agroindustries to stabilize demand and increase
employment and rural incomes; and increase foreign exchange earnings
through exports of products of the agricultural sector.
2.       Policy Context.  The main sectoral policy, which was the subject
of considerable discussion between the Bank and the Government, wasOthat,
before embarking on new construction, priority should be given to the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage schemes. The second key
policy area was to be the reduction of subsidies for irrigation development
through improved cost recovery measures.
3.       Linkates Between Project. Sector and Macro-nolicy Obtectives.  The
project was important to the agricultural sector and in turn to the economy
through productivity gains made possible through the Increased availability
of water. Moreover, the project, together with subsequent Bank support to
the agriculture sector, has explicitly promoted Intensive rather than
extensive agriculture, given Colombia's need to greatly increase its
agricultural productivity, while at the same time protecting its natural
resource base from encroachment.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
4.       Proiect Obiectives.  The main objectives of the project were tot
(a) halt deterioration of existing irrigation infrastructure (canals,



dikes, structures and roads); (b) construct new irrigation infrastructure
to improve use of available water and land resources; tc) improve the
operation and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructuret (d) increase
yields of irrigated crops, including the introduction of rice cultivation
in basins and improving of livestock farming methods; (e) provide technical
and seasonal short- and medium-term financial assistance to allow
beneficiary farmers to improve their production capability; 'f) gradual
transference of responsibilities for operating and maintaining the
i4rigation and drainage works to the user associations; and
(g) strengthening the Borrower's staff capability in the areas of water
management, appraisal and supervision of irrigation works.
5.       Proiect Components.  The project includeds  (a) construction of
irrigation infrastructure in eight districts; (b) acquisition of equipment
for operation and maintenance (O&M) to replace obsolete equipment and
vehicles in the project districts; (c) provision of short- and medium-term
credit to farmers in the districts for financing irrigation works and
promoting agricultural production at the farm level; (d) provision of
technical assistance to small-scale farmers, by means of preparation and
supervision of irrigation and investment plans at the farm level and
establishment of about 90 levelling and pasture management demonstration
plots; te) feasibility studies and engineering designs for prepariag a
second phase project; (f) training of the Borrower's staff and Technical
Assistance Agencies' staff in the fields of project prepara*'.on,
management, economic analysis, and accounting and management for
representatives of user associations; and (g) monitoring and evaluating the
project.
D. Project Design and Organization
6.       The conceptual foundation for the project was appropriate and
clear. The design, however, required that the project rehabilitate eight
separate irrigation/drainage districts, scattered all over the country,
each requiring its own preparation work. For this reason, the project
required extensive preparation by FAO/CP and the Bank and above-average
Bank staff appraisal time.                                           0.
7.       Preparation Phase.  The FAO/CP mission visited Colombia in June
1979, September 1979, January 1980 and June 1980. During this time there
were changes in project definition and scope. The initial fifteen
irrigation schemes proposed by the Government were divided into two
projects, with eight schemes being included in the first phase, i.e., the
subject of this PCR. A second phase project now under execution involves
the other seven schemes. A total of 169 staff weeks was required for the
preparation stage up to appraisal, more than double the usual time taken
for preparation (Table 7). However, in retrospect, the staff input was
well spent in designing a successful project with a new Borrower.
Subsequent Bank-financed projects with the same Borrower have required far
less time to prepare. Indeed the most recently approved project required
considerably less than the average.
8.       Appraisal.  This was the first Bank loan with NIMNT as executing
agency, and, therefore, the Bank proposed that each of the eight districts
should be evaluated. This posed logistical problems, which were resolved



- 3 -
by sending a 10 staff appraisal mission (five Bank staff and five
consultants) requiring one month in the field. A total of 101 staff weeks
was required for appraisal (Tabl 7). There was much confusion over the
establiubtent of a revolving fund. Unnecessary discussions could have been
avoided if there had been a preappraisal issues/decision procedure during
which the revolving fund issue could have been resolved. However, at the
time of appraisal the establishment of Special Accounts was not a comon
practice in the Bank. The appraisal mission felt that the establishment of
a 'revolving fund' would be required, because Colombian budgetary
procedures only permitted HIMAT to commit itself to expenditures within its
counterpart budget allocation. Therefore, the appraisal mission was aware
of the chicken and egg situation, but at that time, establishment of
Special Accounts were not common practice.
9.       HIMAT was res onsible for the implementation of the project.
HIMAT's role and responsibilities were clearly defined and understood, and
this contributed significantly to the project's success.
E. Proiect ImDlementation
10.      Apart from a loan closing date extension of six months, the
project was implemented as planned. At tLmes, the project suffered from
insufficient counterpart -ds. However, the following Bank actions
favorably contributed to successful project implementations (a) the Bank
retroactively financed US$0.4 million; (b) tte Bank opened a Special
Account (revolving fund); (c) uniform International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures for Dlik loans were introduced in Colombia on
September 25, 1984; (d) the Bank incluied the project in its Special Action
Program on February 11, 1985. This allowed the increase of Bank financing,
to the project, from 692 to 802 and ensured HIMAT's liquidity during
project implementation (paras. 14 and 27); (e) the Loan Agreement was
modified on December 20, 1985 to allow HIMAT to contract civil works up to
the project closing date; and (f) the Bank extended the project closing
date on May 24, 1988 for six months from June 30, 1988 to
December 31, 1988. In addition, the project contributed to the smooth
follow-on of a subsequent project, and this was facilitated by the Bank's
authorization on September 1, 1985 to allow HIMAT to use project funds to
contract the final designs for civil works to be carried out during the
first year of implementation of Phase II, in addition to feasibility
studies for Phase II. The Bank cancelled US$2.6 million of the Bank loan
on September 8, 1987 due to savings in consultant and extension services;
the latter was associated with slow start-up and only partial
implementation. The Borrower had requested that the savings be used to
finance additional civil works. However, because such works were beyond
the scope of the project and were insufficiently prepared technically, the
Bank declined the request.
11.      Proiect Risks.  Of the potential risks identified by the appraisal
mission (such as credit availability and fanrers' reluctance to invest in
land levelling), only the farmers' reluctance to Invest in land levelling
was of significant consequence. With the exception of Zulia district,
which reached the goals on land levelling, the other irrigation districts
did not reach project targets estimated at appraisal.



-4-
12.      Unforeseen Factors Affecting Proiect ImDlementation.  There was a
delay in starting-up the extension service to farmers, and a lack of
specific extension programs for on-farm water management. This contributed
to the reluctance of farmers to invest in both land levelling and improved
water control. Also, the lack of a monitoring system for the credit
service did not permit an evaluation of the adequacy and quality of the
service.
13.      Procurement.  Procurement of equipment and vehicles was slow in
the beginning due tos (a) HIMAT's lack of familiarity with Bank
procedures; (b) Government's cumbersome administrative regulatio:.s for
procurement; and (c) several separate ICBs rather than consolidated ICBs
were carried out during a short period of time, which contributed to the
administrative burden and delays. After ICB and Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures were revised and approved on September 25, 1984, no major
problems were encountered.
14.      Proiect Costs.  The final cost of the project was about
US$80.5 million, 932 of appraisal estimates (US$86.3 million). In spite of
cancellation of US$2.6 million of the Bank loan and also the increase in
Bank financing (from 692 to 802 effective February 11, 1985), the
Governmert financed about US$0.8 million more than anticipated in equipment
mainly due to higher local expenditures in clearing the equipment and
vehicles acquired under ICB from customs. There were also higher
incremental O&M costs (Table 4).
15.      Disbursements.  It was estimated at appraisal that the Bank loan
would be disbursed in six and one-half years. Actual disbursements took
place over approximately seven years (Table 3).
F. Proiect Results. (See also Part III for Project Profile at Completion)
16.      Proiect Obiectives.  The objectives for the major civil works,
comprising rehabilitation of eight irrigation districts were fully met.
The execution of the civil works was very satisfactory in spite of YDMAT's
limited technical contracting :apacity during the first year of project
implementation. (SIMAT had to prepare contracts for a large number of
contracting firms to work all over the country.) No serious problems were
found during execution of the contracts and the performance of contractors
was satisfactory.
17.      The target estimated at appraisal for land levelling of 12,400 ha
(of which 9,600 ha were in the rice districts) was not achieved. At
project completion only 5,700 ha were leveled (462 of appraisal). However,
in the 2ulia district, 5,000 ha were leveled (125Z of appraisal estimates)
mainly because agricultural equipment was readily available and rice was a
very profitable crop in this district. In other project districts the lack
of equipment, HIMAT's limited experience with land levelling, poor
promotion, and comparative advantage in some competing crops did not
sufficiently motivate farmers to invest in land levelling fir puddled rice.
At appraisal, the Bank had contracted a consultant to visit the project
rice growing areas to recommend the appropriate type and amount of
equipment that was to be financed with the Bank loan for the land levelling
program. The recommendation was based on dry soil levelling techniques.



During project execution, HIMAT decided not to acquire the equipment
because it felt that the dry soil land levelling methodology was oni,
suitable for large holdings on relatively flat land, and not for small
holdings wich sloping terrain. It therefore requested Bsank approval to
procure equipment and tractors to work in wet soils. With some delay the
equipment was procured and delivered to FEDEARROZ, with whom HIMAT had
signed a contract for establiebment of demonstration plots on land
levelling in the rice districts. This program was successful in achieving
its target of 450 ha (90 plots of 5 ha each). The performance of FEDEARROZ
was also satisfactory. However, HIMAT did not put any effort into
promoting land levelling because its main concern was the construction of
works to rehabilitate the irrigation/drainage districts. Consequently, the
need persists today for more widespread use of land levelling techniques.
FEDEARROZ has particularly become aware of this and is taking steps to
promote the technology.
18.      The project also reached the objective of financing feasibility
studies for a second phase project. HIMAT also contracted local firms for
the preparation of final civil works designs for the first year of
implementation. The cost of these studies was US$1.0 mi1lion, as estimated
at appraisal. The performance of the consultants was satisfactory, and the
studies greatly facilitated the preparation of a follow-on project which
has continued the rehabilitation of irrigation districts.
19.      The project training program was very successful.  HIMAT signed a
contract with the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA) to carry out this
component. SENA concentrated its activities in three specific fields:
(a) community development, organizing and reactivating producers'
associations; (b) training for technicians and farmers through informal
courses at national and district levels; and (c) training in administrative
and managerial aspects for the water users' associations. The performance
of SENA was satisfactory.
20.      NIHAT contracted the Colombian Agricultural Institute (ICA) to
carry out extension services in the project areas. This component took
more time than anticipated to get under way. It was not until 1984 *(two
years after effectiveness), that ICA began field activities. Initially,
progress was slow due to lack of vehicles and the fact that most of the
extension agents were not living within close proximity to field
activities. In addition, field demonstrations were too small and were
conducted in research areas of ICA, thereby reducing their effectiveness.
Sta-ting in 1986, the scope of the technical assistance activities was
changed by ICA. The extension agents were required to live in the project
areas, mew vehicles acquired with project funds were assigned to them, and
field deamonstrations were conducted on the farmers' own plots at a field
scale. While this wes a great improvement, ICA did not fully achieve the
project objectives because it gave inadequate emphasis to on-farm water
management. HINAT also must share responsibility for not training the
extension agents in on-farm water management.
21.      In this first phase project, HIMAT did not reach the objective of
preparing all districts for financial independence from the Government, and
for their transition into independent water management authorities.



- 6 -
However, two districts (RUT and Rio Recio) were transferred to the users'
associations after the project closing date. Improvements were slow in the
level and structure of water tariffs to recover O&M costs.  HIMAT was
unable to establish water tariffs for the district of Sibundoy (an area
with a large Amerindian population who has refused on legal grounds to pay
any tariffs), and the Bank subsequently suspended disbursements for civil
works in Sibundoy on January 1, 1986. No action has, as yet, been taken
by HIMAT to charge tariffs in Sibundoy. HIMAT's record keeping on cost
recovery was also deficient. HDHAT did not provide the BP ik with an
analysis of proposed water tariffs in accordance with O&. costs, and it was
only in the latter years that HIMAT began to introduce improved accounting
procedures as it decentralized responsibility for such to the irrigation
districts. On the other hand, HIMAT did introduce a computerized central
billing procedures for all its districts during the execution of the
project. In the second phase project, HIMAT is conducting studies to
identify the main weaknesses in administration and accounting with the
purpose of improving its management and procedures.
22.      Impact of Proiect.  Project impact has been measured through both
financial analysis (at farm level) and economic analysis.
23.      Financial Analysis.  Based on similar illustrative farm model
sizes that were envisaged at appraisal for representative enterprises in
each district, actual figures of available pre-tax income for project
beneficiaries and financial rates of return were estimated (using January
1989 prices) and compared with appraisal estimates. Details are presented
in Part III, Table 5, Page 4. The actual pre-tax income at full
development for project beneficiaries increased from 1992 to 952? in four
districts. This compares very favorably to appraisal estimates whereby
incomes were projected to increase from 1002 to 185?. However, in three
districts, income only increased from 182 to 45S and in one district
decreased to -272. This was because of higher costs of production (labor
and transport) in San Alfonso, (equipment and operation) in Roldanillo,
Toro and La Union (RUT) and a very low level of development in Sibundoy
where there is a large Indian population. The calculated financial rate of
return (FRR) was higher than 502 in all project districts, comparedtwith
appraisal in which it was estimated higher than 502 in five districts, and
lower in three (from 322 to 44?). In part the higher FRR's were because
the full cost of water was not charged.
24.      Economic Analysis.  The actual economic rate of return in the
project computed over 20 years, is estimated to be 34? compared with the
appraisal estimate of 50. The project has contributed significantly to
the growth of the agricultural sector. About 77,000 ha are being cropped
annually in the eight districts, which is 36? more than the pre-project
situation and compares with the SAR incremental area at full development of
412. About 55? of the area is cultivated with rice which produces about
127,000 MT of paddy per year. In general, yields have increased. The
technique of puddled rice cultivation has been introduced with about 202
higher yields than anticipated at appraisal, but the area of such was only
about 50? of the appraisal target because of the slow adoption of land
levelling techniques discussed in para 17. Other crops have increased
their yields by about 15t (average), over appraisal estimates. Table 5 in
Part III, shows the evolution of crops, yields and production per year in
the project districts.



-7-
G. Prolect Susta±nabilitv
25.      The project significantly contributed to strengthening  HIMAT's
management. Because of HIMAT's satisfactory performance, it has received
two subsequent Bank loans (Loan 2667-CO signed on Hay 27, 1986 and
Loan 3113-CO. approved in August 1989 and ready to be sipned).
Sustainability has also been enhanced by 8IHAT's and Government's decision
to actively improve the level and structure of water tariffs, with the view
to having irrigation districts attain financial independence.
H. Bank Performance
26.      Haior Strengths and Weaknesses.  Bank staff contributed to the
success of the project through supportive working relationships and
professional advice. The technical complexities demanded above normal
effort during project preparation, appraisal and supervision. The
technical, financial and institutional problems that were resolved during
project implementation indicate Bank flexibility in adopting corrective
measures. However, during the first five years of project execution, Bank
supervision missions were mainly concerned with the construction aspects of
civil works and procurement of equipment and machinery. The HIDAT project
unit was organized mainly to monitor the progress of civil works.
Nevertheless, in later years the Bank began to focus on productive aspects
and asked HIMAT to collect information on agricultural production. Key
agricultural indicators were produced by HIHAT at Bank insistence, and such
information has been sent each year to the Bank. The Bank also asked HIMAT
to monitor agricultural extension activities and such data has been
collected by HIMAT since 1987.
27.      Lessons Learned.  The principal lessons learned, with implications
for other projects, are summarized below: (a) annual rather than
semi-annual progress reports from HIMAT proved to be adequate (on
May 19, 1986 the Bank authorized HIMAT to prepare annual rather than
semi-annual reports); and semi-annual evaluation reports on the
agricultural impact of the project have proven to be useful to enco&rage
more focus on productivity aspects for the Phase It project;
(b) contracting demonstration services in land levelling to a private
organization (tEDE6RROZ) proved to be very successful; (c) since farmers do
not perceive drainage as an agricultural input, in contrast to the supply
of irrigation water, it proved to be almost impossible to levy and collect
water charges for drainage; (d) provision for the automatic suspension of
disbursements (Section 5.05 (c) in the Loan Agreement), when the Borrower
failed to meet billing and collection of water charges, proved easy to
apply for specific distiicts (e.g., case of Sibundoy district)t (e) the
timeframe for audit report submissions should allow sufficient time for
both Borrower and external auditor to do their respective parts. Auditing
reports were never delivered on time, and the four months allowed HIMTA
after the close of the fiscal year was inadequate. A six-month timeframe
has been used successfully in subsequent projects; (f) the establishment of
the Project Special Account (revolving fund) was crucial and ensured
HIMAT's liquidity during project implementation; (g) the introduction of
standard bidding documents for Bank loans in Colombia greatly accelerated
ICB and LCB activities; (h) the inclusion of the project in the Bank's



- a -
Special Action Program helped to overcome severe counterpart funding
problems which plagued the Government during the early part of the project;
and (J) in irrigation/drainage development projects in which the main
eecuting agency is an engineering agency, it is essential to ensure that
adequate emphasis is given to the non-civil works and on-farm development
and services components from the outset.
I. Borrower Performance
28.      Maior Strenaths and Weaknesses.  In spite of the lag time of
15 months from loan approval to effectiveness, HDMAT performed well in
contracting the civil works and procuring the equipment and vehicles. This
was possible because BHMAT retained qualified management and technical
staff during project Implementation, and the Government had assigned high
priority to the development of the irrigation districts. HIMAT's strength
has grown with the experience gained during project implementation. In the
last ten years HIMAT's annual budget has increased 366Z but its staff has
only grown 212. The successful execution of this project led to Bank
approval of two subsequent operations on Hay 27, 1986 (Loan 2667-CO) and on
August 1, 1989 (Loan 3113-CO). The main weaknesses of HIMAT have been:
(a) lack of experience by staff in technical agricultural aspects (with
this project experience, however, the problem was rectified in
Loan 2667-CO); (b) HIHAT did not train its personnel in project financial
and economic analysis; (c) HIMAT was not interested in executing the land
levelling component; (d) HIMAT failed to raise water charges for full
recovery of O&H costs; (e) HIMAT did not contract the consultants for
organizing the monitoring and evaluation unit; and (f) HIMAT had
deficiencies in its management information system.
29.      Other Lessons Learned:  (a) Procurement efficiencies, which have
been applied in the follow-on project (Loan 2667-CO), were determined by
carrying out equipment purchases in a few consolidated ICBs rather than
several processes each year. Also, the winning bidders have been required
to train HUIAT's mechanics and equipment operators; (b) decentralization of
reponsibility to the district level for administrative and accounting
greatly improved the incentive in HIMAT to determine and recover the full
cost of operation and maintenance. HIMAT has been conducting studies to
know the real administrative and O&M costs, and to reflect the real costs
i.e., to include the depreciation of O&H equipment including pumps, instead
of considering such equipment as free; and (c) MIMAT now prepares timely
and adequate progress reports, which has improved decision-making.
J.  Protect Relationship
3u.      Imvact of Relationships on Proiect Imnlementation.  The success of
this project is a result of the good working relationships between the Bank
and the Borrower, and between the various institutions involved.
K. Consulting Services
31.      Part of the success of HIMAT in implementing the project is due to
the responsiveness and quality of local consultant inputs during project
e"ecution.



-9-
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
32.      &deauacy of Staff Arn,raisal Report and Halor Working Papers.
Original documentation for the project was adequate. The Staff Appraisal
Report as well as the Project Implementation document, prepared by Bank
staff, were very useful during project execution. A number of working
papers of each district were available.
33.      Availability of Relevant Data to PCR Prenaration.  Overall,
HIMAT's monitoring and evaluation capacity was weak although it was better
with regard to the monitoring of agricultural technical coefficients. The
PCR has been prepared based on information existing in HIMAT's regional
offices and field surveys conducted during May-July 1989.



- 10 -
Part II
Unofficial
Translation from Spanish
Evaluation from the Borrower's Point of View
A.   Background
1.   Irrigation Districts Transfer from INCORA. In 1976 INCORA transferred
to HIMAT responsibility for all Irrigation and Drainage Districts under its
control. Most of the infrastructure and equipment were in poor condition.
2. First Irrigation Rehabilitation Proiect. After the transfer, HIMTA
requested Government funds in order to operate and maintain the projects.
In view of the scarcity of local funds, the Government authorized HIMAT to
obtain external financing. Therefore, HIMAT requested financing from the
Bank for the First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project under Loan 1996-CO.
B.   Bank's Performance During Proiect Imnlementation
3.   Continuity of Bank Proiect Officers.  During the seven years of
project implementation, the project was supervised by three Bank Project
Officers: the first one for a period of four years, the second one during
a six month period and the third one for two and a half years. Given the
complexity of the project (eight districts in different parts of the
country), the continuity of staffing for supervision of the project and the
effective advice given have contributed to successful project
implementation.
4.   Partial Cancellation of Loan Funds.  During project implementation,
savings occurred under the Consultant Services and Extension categories.
HIMT, with Government support (Ministry of Finance and National Planning
Department (DNP)), requested to the Bank that such savings be used to
extend the irrigated area of the Zulia district. The Bank did not
authorize the request and cancelled US$2.64 million on September 8, 1987,
indicating a degree of inflexibility to the Borrower's request.
5.   Advice Durint Supervision.  It is necessary to emphasize the role of
the Bank Project Officers during project implementation, particularly in
the last years of the project. Such a role was not limited to follow-on
project activities, but also to giving advice and citing experiences of
other countries which has helped HIMAT to improve operations for successful
completion of the project.



- 11 -
C.   HIMAT's Performance Durint Imnlementation
6. HIMAT's Resgonsibility. HIMAT's role as the Government institution
responsible for project implementation, vas to coordinate and execute all
technical and administrative aspects of the project, as well as to
coordinate activities with other Government and private entities
collaborating on the project. Such a role encouraged the institution to
improve its capacity and adapt its organization to fulfill the objectives
assigned under the project.
7.   Project Organization.  For effective project implementation, HIMAT
organized project activities under two levelss
(a)  Regional, under which all project activities were executed; and
(b) Central, under which all coordination and project control was
set. Initially these activities were handled by an independent
Coordination Unit under the 'Subdireccion de Tierrasa. In 1986,
after a reorganization of HIMAT, this Unit was modified as the
'Seccion Emprestitos' under the Planning Department in order to
facilitate project coordination, planning and budgeting and
control of resources and implementation.
8. HIMAT's Decentralization. HIMAT's decision to decentralize project
activities was considered effective because project activities were carried
out by regional offices with a reduction in administrative procedures and
better management of project funds. Regional Offices (Direcciones
Regionales) became responsible for implementing field activities and the
Central Office for coordination and project management.
9.   Decentralization of Contracts and Budaet.  Administration and
management of funds and activities that prior to the project were handled
by the Bogota Office were modified at the time of project implementation.
Regional Offices were authorized to contract studies and to manage project
funds without prior authorization of the Bogota Office. Budget
implementation and control of project activities improved, as did inventory
and control of goods and equipment purchased with project funds.
10. Information Systems. HIMAT was able to collect better project
information and monitor project implementation through the improvement of
its computerized information systems in the Central and Regional Offices
(micro computers). It was considercd important that the Bank be flexible
and authorize procurement of such equipment which facilitated MAE of
project activities by project completion.
11. Quality and Continuity of Human Resources. HIMAT assigned the best
available staff with good training and experience to handle project
activities. The continuity of most of the Central and Regional staff at
administrative and technical levels during project implementation
contributed to successful operations. After seven years of project
investments, a great majority of staff continue working with project
activities in HIMAT.



- 12 -
12. Coordination. HIMAT worked actively to communicate project objectives
and goals, as well as keeping updated i.formation on project
implementation, to staff of collaborating institutions. This facilitated
the work and use of such information by the staff of the collaborating
institutions (DNP, *Contraloria General de la Republica (CGR)^, Hinistry of
Agriculture) and the Regions. Good collaboration was obtained from CGR
during annual auditing of project accounts, on the appropriateness of
control of HIMAT financial activities, the Special Account, and the
efficient control of procurement in the Regional Offices. Procedures were
verified and controlled and all purchases registered during project
implementation. This facilitated the work of the Auditors, reduced problems
in the application of fiscal regulations and facilitated the use of loan
funds.
13. Delivery of Districts Administration to the Users. In accordance with
the Bank agreement, HIMAT, after completing training for the users of the
district, in management, technical and administrative procedures,
transferred district administration of two irrigation districts, RUT and
Rio Recio to the users' associations on December 14 and 20 1989,
respectively. HIMAT will continue this type of work with other project
districts.
D.   The Effectiveness of the Relationship between the Bank and HIMAT  and
Other Institutions
14. Solutions to Proiect Problems. In many cases, during project
implementation, the Bank was open to HIMAT's requests for technical and
administrative changes to improve project implementation. Many times those
suggestions were discussed and recommendations made and accepted to improve
project implementation.
15. Users' Attitudes. Road rehabilitation, small bridge construction,
access to the electricity network built for project installations, and
training on new technology for agricultural production and farming changed
users' attitudes to project activities and they became main supporters of
project implementation. Hence, possible opposition was avoided.
16. Coordination with Other Entities. Agreements were established with
other Government Agencies and private institutions to provide technical
assistance for agricultural extension, training and cattle farming. It is
necessary to mention that all agreements were followed and good relations
with each agency or institution was maintained by HIMAT. In many cases
additional work that was not in the agreements was made by such agencies
without additional payments involved.



COLOMBIA
IRRIATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(Losn 1996-CO)
POJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bank Lons 1/
I  Yer of   I            I
Leon             | 1se_   lEtfccttw           Statws   |Comente
IAtlan$1co teription Project I             I             I          I The PPAR estimated It  rate of roturn below  1; and 
(LOn 602-CO)         IIrrigation |    1967      I Closed   I It concluded that the project should have been esecuted as
a flood control schme rather than a sprinklor                I
|           I t   8   | irrigation sche.                                    I     -.
jS.cond Atlantico Sllopet I                              I             T     eh poject ncountered  eowiou  problem of social. 
I Project (Loan 049-CS)      llrrigtion        1972        Clos        agricultural, and technical nature and projoct performenc    I       S
I                             I            I             I I           have been ditppointing; sod                                   I
I                             I           I             I           j Only 640 families had boen settlod In the aroe a
ICequet 1I-Rural Settl   _       Rural                  j           j Execution of the works was good but the execution wa slow   IA
I Project (Loan 1118-CO)      DeeoIpt I   1976           I Closed      because INCORA had prmanent liquidity problmn; and                   to
I  I  I     I More counterpart funds were needed due to delayo In
!  !   I      I          I *xecution and unexpectodly high cates of Intlation.            I       m
ICordobb 2 Agricultura1l     I Drains"                                ton spite of the improvesnts introduced by the project,       I
Cordlope 2 t ProJclt rlnd Rural Ing                                 I lond use dd not chang  and continued as pastures;
I   (Loan 1196-CO)            Deovlopment I   197       I Closed       The financial sttuation of ICORA was procsriousw; and
I  I  I  I  I Lack of sfficient counterpart funds and capablo staff.                ¢
iIntegrated Rural Development I  Rural                              I With 12 executing ae*ncioo, imple mentaton was oxcesslbly    I         0
I  I               I            I          | their Incoom; and                                        I
The process of disbursemtt applications and the sutbseuent  I
doldlory of funds to the executing oancioo w*  too slow due I 
to slower and complox administrative proceduree.
SSecond Agricultural Credit  lAgrieculturali                           FW's crodit systom was inadequate to meet *ml-cal 
Project (Loan 187-CS)     I  Ced;t          1977     I Cloe d   I fers' neds; and
I            I            I           I | Lack of counterpart funds specifically rosorved for mall-
I  I        I                   I          | scale farmers.
|Third Agricultural Credit   jAgriculturall             I           | Restrictive budgetary policioo adopted by Government          I
Projoet (Loan 1787-CO)        1Credt    ! 979   . I Closed           limited the bridging finance available to the mplementing 
l  l          al ogency; ond                                               l
I                             I           I             I           I Tochnicoal and administrative problem  dun to ItCORA weuknoss.1
1/ Approved beforo tho Irrigation Rehabilitation I Project



-14-                          Table 2
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiect Timetable
Date        Date            Date
Item                        Planned     Revised         Actual
Identification Bank1FAO-CP                                   June      1979
Identification FAO/CP            Sep/79                      Sep-Oct  1979
Preparation I  FAO/CP            Jan/80                      Jan-Feb  1980
Preparation II FAO/CP            June/80                     June      1980 I/
Appraisal                        Oct/80           9/80       October  1980
Post-Appraisal                   Jan/81                      January  1981
Post-Appraisal                   Feb/81                      February 1981
Loan Negotiations                4/14/81                      4/14/81
Board Approval                   5/19/81                      5119/81
Loan Signature                   4/16/82                      4/16182 2/
Loan Effectiveness               4/25/82       7/15182        8/16/82
Loan Closing                     6/30/88      12/31/88       12/31/88
Project Completion Report        6/30/89
_/  The Executive Project Summary was issued on July 25, 1980.
2/  Delay between Board Approval and Loan Signature was due to Congtess
debating the level of tolerable external debt including IBRD debt.
The issues raised at each stage of project cycle weret
Identification
- to divide the rehabilitation program in two phases of four years each;
- to select out of 15 irrigation/drainage district (comprising about
82,000 ha of net equipped area) a group of districts for the first phase
rehabilitation program;
- the project organization and management would require an adequate
coordination between HIMAT, INCORA, ICA, SENA, and Caja Agraria under
HIHAT's leadership; and
- it would be necessary during a four-year period, basic training and in
service for technician staff of HIMAT, INCORA, and possibly SENA.



-15                            Table 2
Page 2 of 4
Preparation I
- in many districts, the extent of cost recovery was too low even to cover
operation and maintenance (O&M) costs;
- since rice was going to be the principal output from the project, it was
necessary to have a clear definition from the Government of its medium-
and long-term marketing policy for this commodity which was then being
exported; and
- HIMAT's leadership would need to be officially confirmed and subsidiary
agreements, between the institutions involved, signed before the
initiation of project implementation. The possible participation of
FEDEARROZ was also discussed.
Preparation II
- HIMAT's performance in the Atlantico II Project had not been
satisfactory. HIMAT had to carry out the study repeatedly asked by the
Bank;
- lack of sufficient budgetary allocation plagued in the past execution of
the Bank's projects in the Agricultural Sector in Colombia;
- several on-going Bank loans to Colombian institutions had experienced
serious delays in implementation because of the Government disbursement
system;
- the project did not focus principally on the poverty targ,et income group
and beneficiaries would include medium and large farmers as well as land
reform beneficiaries;                                              *
- economic calculations would have to show that Colombian grown rice was
competitive with imported rice;
- insufficient credit for production and on-farm development in the project
areas;
- the project would need advance contracting and retroactive financiag and
justification would have to be established at appraisal; and
- regarding the execution of on-farm works, the issue was whether on-farm
civil works like land levelling should have to be undertaken only by
private contractors or whether HIMAT could also offer to undertake them
and in this later case how would be the recovering costs.



- 16 -                         Table 2
Page 3 of 4
Ani,raisal
- HIHT's liquidity during project execution due to inadequacy of budgetary
procedures (952 of HIMAT's income represented Government Budgetary
allocations). The Budget Law and procedures would not permit advance
budgetary allocations to finance 1002 of the investments but only that
portion of the investments to be financed with national resources. It
was recommended the creation of a Pari-passu Revolving Fund; and
- scope of the Bank loan, since the loan would not finance incremental
agricultural credit and incremental O&M cost during construction. It was
recommended that the Bank should make a loan of US$37.0 million
equivalent to the foreign exchange component of the project (48?).
toan Negotiations
- Collection of water charges: (i) it was agreed to delete from the loan
agreement two clauses, that penalty charges be increased to 3? per month
and that the Borrower enter into agreements with Caja Agraria to ensure
that payment of all outstanding water charges be required for a farmer to
obtain credit. Furthermore, it was agreed not to delay the start-up of
works nor Bank disbursements for any district if collections of 1980
water charges for that district were below 802 of amounts billed.
Instead, the Borrower would be bound to reach and maintain at least an
80 collection rate in each district beginning with collections for
calendar year 1981; (ii) the Borrower by January lst, 1983 would put into
effect, and thereafter maintain, in each of the districts included in the
project area water charges to provide for the full recovery of operating
and maintenance costs and of the investments in infrastructure and
equipment to be financed under the loan, subject however, to the
financial capacity of the beneficiaries;
- the borrower by September 30, 1982. would furnish to the Bank a plan of
action for transferring the Borrower's management responsibilities
regarding the O&M of the districts included in the project area to the
User Associations in each such districts.
Loan Eff ctiveness
- HIHAT was to have organized and operational the Project Coordinating Unit
and appointed the Unit Chief.
Loan ClosinR
- Inadequacy of cost recovery of O&M costs;
- no action was taken by HIHAT to collect water charges in the Sibundoy
district after the suspension of disbursements by the Bank in
January 1, 1986;



- 17 -
Table 2
Page 4 of 4
- lack of maintenance of equipment and lack of knowledge of hydraulic
systems of heavy equipment among mechanics in HIMAT's workshops;
- lack of counterpart funds for investments since January 1, 1986 which
resulted in slowdown of contracting activities;
- HIMAT has not yet reached the total independence of the rehabilitated
districts and has not transferred the O&H responsit'lities to the User
Associations of each district;
- HIMAT has not improved accounting procedures, at Headquarters' Office,
for each district; and
- HIMAT does not have information about the subloans that have been granted
to project beneficiaries.



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(Loan 1996-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Loan Disbursements
i                                                                                         ----_______I~~~~------------
------------------------------Fiscal Year (FY) 11--------------------------------
ii                          |   1982  J   1983  J   1984  I   1985  J   1986  I   1987  I   1988              1989i
I                           I           I         I          1          I          1          I          I         I   
lAppraisal Estimate          i    3.0  1   10.0  I   18.5  1   25.9  1   29.6  1   33.3  |   34.4  I   34.4 I
i  (US$ million)            i          I          I          i          I          i          I          I         |
lActual (US$ million)                  I    2.6  j   13.4         20.1  I   27.1  I   29.7  I   32.5  |   34.4
|Actual as S of             |          |      26         72|        781        92j        89|        94        100z |
Appraisal Estimate       I                                I          I         I          I          I         I
IDate of Final Disbursement : June 30. 1989                                                                        1
I                                                                                                                  I
ICancelled Amount 21       s US$ 2.64 million
I                                                                                                                  I
ICancelled at Closing      S
I                                                                                                                  I- .  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
11 Bank FY (July 1st to June 30)
21 Cancelled by savings on September 8, 1987.



- 19 -
Table 4
COLOMBIA                                   Pag  1 of 2
IRRIGATION RmAD?LXTATION I PROJECT
(Lean 1"-CO)
PROJECT COMPLEYTION REPORT
A. Proj ct Coat
(SS '000)
I  I  I               I Actual as      I
I                                              I   Appraisal                   Actual      of Apprais"l   I
I                 C*t4gory                     I   E,tuatn 1t                                Estimate 
II. Civil Works                                I         80,60    |            27,957                 91  I
12. Equipment and Vehteles                               12,403                13,174 1/ |           106  |
IS Consulting Servites                         I                   I                     I                I
3 Sa. Designs and Construction Supervision   I            3,655                 3,605    I            9 |
I b. Preparation of Phas  It               |          1,000    |            1,000    1           100  |
Sc. Monitoring and Evaluation              |                   I                      I               |
14. Training Program n                                      726                   786    1           102  1
65. Extension Services                                    1,061                 1,127    I           104  |
|                                    Subtotal            40,600    |           47,601    1            96  I
16. Other Lcl Cost                                                I
I a. Credit to Bensficlarios                        31,900    |           26,020 2/1             6 Uo
I b. 0 A i  ncramsntal co.te                         4,00                  4,9043/I   *         100
Subtotal            86,600    1           82,924                 so
Grand Total  I         66,800    I           60,526         !       03  I
------ -- -
1/ Local costs Increased mainly due to higher costs of local oxpenditures to cloer by custom
equipment and vehicles acquired under LCD.
2/ There is no Information on subloans granted to bnettclorbes (amounft
par farmer, per year and per district). It Is assumed that 6,700 ha
have not been leveled and about 3,000 ha of Zulis Dlstrict did not
seed financing for land loelIng.
8/ O&M Incremental cost  were totally financd by local funds.



- 20 -
Table 4
COLOMBIA
Page 2 of 2
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(Losn 19W-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
B. Project Financing
(US$ elIIton)
I               I  Sanking       Covernment I           I          I
Category                 I Beneficiaries  I   Sytm    I  (HIMAT)   I  Bank    I  Total I
T1. Appraisal Estimates                 I                I              I            I                      I
j1. Civil Work*                         I                l                      8.7  I    17.5 6       26.2l
2. Equipment and Vehicles              I                               1       1.0 8      10.0  1    12.4 1
I 8. Consulting Servles                 I                                                        I      0.0 I
3a. Dosigne and Supervision         I                I              I      1.1  I      B.4  1      4.6 1
I   Sb. Preparation of Phase T          I                I                      0.8 o       0.?  I      1.0 I
3c. Monitoring and Evaluation       I                I              I            I     0.1  I      0.1 I
4. Training Program                    I                I              I       0.2  I      0.6 8       1.01
S . Extension Services                  I                I              I       0.4  1      1.0  I      2.0 1
6. Unalloeatad                          I                I              I            I      2.8  I      2.81
I                                        I   --______   I   ____ -___      -   -       _   -      I   _____-I
Subtotal  I            0  I           0  1      12.5  I    87.0  1    49.56
1Other Local Financing                  5                I              I            I           I 
a. Credit to Benficiaries                         14.5 6         17.4  I            1           1    31.9 I
b. 0& A Mncrwmntal Costs                I               I                      4.9                     4 . .9 1
l                                Total  l          14.5           17.4  I      17.4  5    87.0 *I    80S l
III. Actual                             I                I              I            I           I          I
1. Civil Works                         5                5              I       8.  l    19.8 l        28.0l
2. Equipment and Vehicles              I                I              5       2.6 0      10.6  5    18.2 1
3. Consulting Service                  I                I              I                               0.0
8. Deigns ernd Supervision          I                I              I      1.1         2.5         8.6 I
I   Sb. Preparation of Phas  I                          I                      OI 0.   I   0.7         1.0 I
Sc. Monitoring and Evaluation                        I0.0 I
4. Training Program                                     I                     0.2  1      0.5 O       0.7 I
S. Extension Servies                   I                I              I      0.4  I      0.7  I      1.1 1
Subtotal  I0  I0                                I 18.$  I    34.8  I    47.6 1
JOttn Locol Financing                    I               I              I            I           I
a. Crilt to Beneftelaries                      12.7          15. S               I           1    28.0 1
b. O    il  crmnts   l Co"                           |              |      4.9  |            |     4.91
I                                Total  I          12.7  I        15.8  I      10.2  |    84.8  |    80.5 I
I                                       I    -I  _-I _-I  z_l  _I
I         ______                                                             _                   I 



COLII69A
IIATN RBIILITATtCN I PRMJECT
(Loan 1096-O3)
PRtJ£CT CGETXIH REPONT
A. DRECT  B1EFTS
Chang in Agricultwral Produtction 1/
rminm AT RJLL           REAL FlIGUES        REAL FIlS            REAL HOLMES          NEL  FIGURES         REAL FI@UM           REAL FlomS
COP                AT APPRAWAL         6BAA TF                1402-193            1961904              1964-1965            1986-1966            166-167              19187-1016
hW/Y___  I tmon/he   t A,o         h I tone/h    hkye..I ton/AO   hiser I toned)..  he/yee  I tone/he   ha/pear I tone/ha   he/year I ton/h    h/per I to/ha
Traitiona*leRIo.        800        4.4       gm         4.0      10121       6.0 U8              5.6      7345        5.68     814        5.6       2116       5.0        60        5."
Rice on poolw*-                              80         4.7          -         -      2300        5.       810         5.9      00           .       00         5.7      1000o5.
sorghue                  64        10        10         1.          70       27         76         .2       221        8.8       218       8.6,      2,14       3.5        421         5
Total      68b54              14600                10191                11823                11076                18360               1330                 t
2. SMIA
- irr3ate
Pa..                   446       1.9       1140       2.1       220        6.6       260        7.0       280       7.0        270       8.6        280       2.0       4"4        7.?
Wheat                  410       2.4        72D       2.6        186       8.5        60        4.         71       4.5         65       4.0         40       4.0        140       .5.
6                       ODe  8   2.7        600       2.0        20        4.         s0        8.0        45       3.          55       2.6       3u5        3.0        12         .
ptatoge                178      12.0        74       18.2        165      11.8       225       16 .7      185      17.05       155      17.8       270       1s:.1       170     '20.0
Vegetablee              62      14.0        800      14.6        188      16.4        195      14.        135       10.0       205      17.0        195      15.9        1901     19.0
ftetur"                                  -              - _  _                       400          -       300       2.8        370       5.0       350        6.2       1075       3.9
Subtotal         1140                 a6m0                 1o0s                 1210                 1016                 1120                1410                 2150
PO".                     -         -         so       1.3        166       5.4        so        5.4        00       5.5        140       4.4       220        2.1        85        5.5
bbelso y                                     60       2.2       205        2.6       240        8.0       220       8.0        170       2.6          5         3        68        3.0
11c.lep                                     too10     2.6        20        2.5 'S                          35         -         s0      '1.           -         -        so        2.9
Potato"                            -                                      12.0        15       1.0         48      13.0         40      13.6       20        16          00       1 5 1.2
Vaetablom-                         -          -                                   -          -            130          -         -         -        167        14        s0       10.0                  -
Pbsture.              1260         .       360          _        95          -       S4"                  s7s         -       s          3.0        9S       3.6        75          _
Subtoal          126                   880                I182                  1160                 1306                 1295               107                   415
Total      24S0                 4060                 2386                 2870                2411                 2415                 2917                 2565
a   RIO WIOC
Trad I 6tionl Rice      7000       8.7       480D       5.7      a260        6.1      5           6.1      7048       6.0       5785       6.0       7013       5.3      6007        s.e
Rite on Poole           1600       6.6       600        6.0          -         -      1600        6.1      128        6.2       1250       6.0        S00       6.0        600       6.0
serelwa                  g00       2.3       1000       2.4       1070       2.1      4066        2.5      3766       2.9       3744       3.2       1756       8.3      305         8.1
Coatton                    -       1.6          -       2.1          -                16          2.        06        2.0        970       2.5       1675       2.0       1098       2.7
oi'.: to                                        -         -                             34        4.01        -          -         -         ---                                       -
lorbft                               -                                                  S         2.0       270       1.3         30       1.5        so        o.8       s8         1.8
Total      960                 1800 0S830o                               12746               18817                1t720                1120 6               119§22
4. SAM ALWUO
- Irrigated
Traditional RI"e    "128         6.5        N         5        1218        5.6       160       8.1        7t7       6.8 5     100        6.7      1449        7.4      100         6.2
Rice on Poole                              $OD00      66                         -                         10       6.                     ----
Sorahum                160       2.  2.0              20        13          .0       88        2.6         4        2.         69        2.6       174        2.9       260        5.5
Cotton                 so0       1.6                            to1        2.1      "46        3.0        213       3.0        136       2.0       113        2.5       103        2.0
Subtoa            1400o               103                  i485                 1154                 1061                1230                 1736                 1460
-Reinfed                                                                                                                                                                                            l 
8or;.                 24200          -0-                         64        2.0      1il        2.2        310       2.5       210        2.0          1       2.0        82       2.7            ID  lb
Other           ~~~~~140                                   3    1  P  -         49          -        76                  157         -          S         -        72          -           00 0
Subtotal           8                                                        t .f 160                  366                  367                   4                  154                      __
Toetl      1830                i163                  is1O                 1314                144                  1897                  740                 1614L
-.,----..--I                                                                                                                                                                 '.4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------------------  ..!2  .....
1/ Hrataree p r lerr (ha/yeer) _ran  are. actually cropped (rc  Ia Croepped tace* a Yer)                                                                                                               U
Tocn  per htaro (tone/he) arna the everaga yild par hectore per crop



Chang  ;in Aer;cultu4ra Predet,oo 1/
TIDVTES T FUt        RWAL fIOl            REAL PIW.NS ML FIGS                    AE.AL FIt3RES       RtAL FI13           RNAL F    tIG
aoP              AT APPISAL          SBUSUT               1902-196t3          1968t194           1964--1965          19865-196           1906-1907          *ty7-19g
he/yeor I tome/he   he/sr I toe/he   ho/y*r I to/ha   ha/y"r  I toe/he  her I ton/h. 1* h/yer I tons/he  he/yes  I tote/ha   ha/yesr  to1e^*
S. LERIJA
- Rein.d4 Only
- r'edit.e"lO Rice    26o      4.4         _         _      466        4.5     4635       4.6      am         8.8      4500       4.3       201      5.2      27W1       4.
Rice on Poole           -        -      UC         4.7         -                   --               130       5.4       206       4.9         -                 is        4.
Rffico              16         2.6      2400       2.O      1429       1.7      374       2.4       a69       2.2       970       2.5                          790       2 S
Ieize                S60       1.6      2000       1.9      66         1.2      320       1.5.      402       1.6       600       1.6                          465       2.0
F anc"o              190                                  -            -    - 214      - 240              - 93       - 20                    -    -            710          -
Pastures"           6460                4800                4070        ..     4974         -       144         -      5637         -                          400       0.7
ToIa   10090                 12ts0               11751              10643               11437               12203                 201               11306
6. R.L .T.
-Irrigated
C@ttoft             200        2.1      2300       2.6       m"       2.6      1451       8.0      2186       3.0       893       3.0      2719      2.0      2330       3.1
torhuw              2300       2.4      4600       2.7      197        3.7     2323       5.6      1464       4.5      1642       4.8      164       4S       2960       4.0
7;Xi                 660       S.6         -         -      1034      8.        496       4.1       235       4.t       662       4.5       6so      4.0       311       S.5
Soyba"n             2900       2.5      7900       2.6      2674      2.2      2733       2.5,     3376       2.4      4726       2.5      4152      2.4      41t6        2.9
Sees*                140       1.2         -         -        54       1.4       15       1.5        46       1.4       130       1.        22        1.5       14 
CGrope               400      10.8      n40       20.0       314      31.0      332      32.0       333      32,0       360      36.2      348      30 3       365      3-6
Tobacco                          -         -         -        66      231        67       2.8        31       2.63      21        2.4         -- 
bats..               260      24.0       600      40.0      1S2       31.6       267     34.0       196      8.0 342             34.0       16      27 .8       30      35.
Pets...,.                   -                        -        14      20.0      247      12.        221      i.s        22       1.        460      25.2       42       24.0
Other                240       4.0       200       4.0      m           -        1        8.3       106      22.5        72     22.5       441       0.7        32
Peat.."                _         -                   -       164        -       146                  01       0.7        12      0.7       S5        2.4        22       1.2
Subtotal        9loo               16200                6701               0079                 427                6732               9633               10926
Cotton               230       1.7         -         -       276       1.6     21123      2.2       624       2.0      1657      2.0        199      2.4       369       2.6
Sergh.              2000       2.0      120o       2.5      4906      3.1      3569       3.6      g742       3.2      1201      3.2      2711       8.6      3W17       8.4
Paits                260       2.1         -         -       314      3.1       279       2.0       457       3.7       St?      3.3       429       8.6       69        2.8
S-yban              170        2.1      1200       2.4      s276       1.6     a26"       1.9      4041       2.0      415        1.9     3273       1.9      1300       2.2
pU                               _ so90te,                                      57se-  -  2712  1.5  62       1.2        40       1.0 4    s
Otbe.                                                        149        -       an06      2.5       309      22.       2          1.7        -    -             71         -
-              -      1811       0.3       77        0.4      677       2.2      1109       0.9
Subtotal        4200                2400                 549               1077                9747                661s               7469                66s6
Tote'    130                 1SD                t1emW0               16649              18174               17347               17122               1752
7. EL  ANCAL
Trsdltionei Ric.      am0        5.7      2600       5.7    S3S7        6.6      2719       6.4      4ot        6.5      4466      6.3      4230       6.3      4664       5.7
Ric o  Pan le            _         _      4000       5.9                            _         _       220       6.s                                              15o       6.5
Sotlme                123i2      1.9       200       2.1       524       1.;     1148       2.1       468       2.2       S6       2.7       123       2.5       s25       2.9
sT47b""                                                                   as   -    6  0.7     -                   6       1.5-                           --
Total     421                 eso0                3671               8961                4736                4s85               43                  5164
e. swNm,
-RifdOnly
Pastor..            57g0m               730-0              6s277               6415         -      6500                S W500       -     6535       1.7      65"4       1.7
Pan..430                         -0      Om                  136                no59                700                 No0                499                 62 
_                                    _-    -    -   - 31  - 20            -  20              - 130      -             -    -            164
Total      620               7900                646                7206                74S0                6800                7034               00                            10
tAwe MMTL UUtPPD    s8406                  796o0               63602              66311               70060               71466              S693                70196         
_~~~~~~sa                                 _        s          _       n..                ses                S..                 an... 
If Mect.era ter Yeat (ha/year)  ecse area ectoall* croppd (rice  cs eropped twee. * Year)
Tone per *czore (tons/h.) _oan- tho avore. y.eld per hecters per crop



- 23 -
Table 5
Page 3 of 5
S. ECON WOSC IPACT
Appraisal
Estimate               Actual
Economic Rate of
Return (in t)                  50                    34
Underlvlina AssumDtions
(a) Investment and Operating Costs were calculated using January 1989
prices and were assumed to remain constant in real terms;
(b) The economic rate of return (EU) was calculated over a 20-year
period with the economic opportunity cost of 121;
(c) The incremental project production was valued utilizing constant
domestic 1989 market prices.
.d) Deductions were made for prevailing taxes;
(e) The sensitivity analysis shows that the economic project values
are very related to crop yield changes. An increase of 152
represents an increase of the ERR in 1.5. times or equivalent to
522 and the reduction of 152 represents a reduction of the ER to
171. Variation of costs of construction, agricultural com6odities
and prices are not significant.



_ 24 -
Table S
Page of a
*ItCAT1ON ASIABILITATIN I PROJWT
(Len 1996-CO)
PRAOCt Cl9LEION RovRt
C. FINWCIAL D4PACr
----Prjec--strit.- ----                         -     ---
-__________________--_------------- PreejeD;tit  --- ----- --- ----------- ----------
Sen                                                Rio
Sarecr    Alfenso     Juncl    Zulti   Sibundoy  Lebrija   Recoi               R.U.T.
1. Average Fare Size (he)                        4         7          20       10        10        20        so         2        10
2. Type of Form
- AGrI;Cltur* (he)                          2.S         7          20        10        -         S        80         2        10
- Livestock (ha)                            1.5         -           -         -        10     15.0         -         -         -
3. Investment Coat 1/,2/                    11,745     o.0su      38,77   28,014      S,=2   1u.s6   115.401    15.499    88,025
A. Income per Fare                          4e,485   84,206       65,064    48.483    7,060    22.669   140,171    17.609   42.488
S. Income at Full D velopment 9/
(per capite)
- Pro-Preject                              270       50          b0O       440       405       w80      970       240       620
- with Project                             we         26       5.261    4.165       240      1.215    4.55        293       724
- Relative Ineresa (S)                     19         4S         '52 M     76        (7)       24       411        22        1i
S. Debt Servies with Projcet 4/                871       9O        2.028       S&1        9I"      640      501        7S       495
7. Not Income After Service                    485      (264) S/  3,2aa      8.614        95      87S    4.452        216       259
S. Fintacial Rate of Return (3)                >SO       >50          5        )60       >S0       >bO      >li       )l0       >S
I/ Exchange rate January 18. 1SU6 * CelO  889.72
2/ Including remuneration of feeily labor
3/ Ful l development woid be reached in year 8 (190) for all gericulture districts. afd in year 10 (1992) for Sibundoy and Lebrija
livetockt districts.
4/ Includee 0K. equipnt and civil works.
S/ Remina  neative betwee  yeare 8 to 17 (20 year analysIs).
Comments:
- Crop yields were oteined from field saaplIn$ and market pricec of product. by January 19*9.
- Pueoine eqipment ;ortde in the diatriet with pumping system  (R.U. t, El Juncel) were amortized In five yer..  In other
di;tricte if puling eu;ipmnt was ne-ded amortization *   esti-ated in 10 year..
- civIl works Invemnte wre a"ortized  in 10 yer.



- 25 -
Table 5
Page 5 of 5
D. STUDIES
STUDIES TO PREPARE PHASE II OF THE PROJECT
District                     Type of Study                 Cost US$
Maria la Baja                     Feasibility                   98,000
Maria la Baja                     Final Design                  68,000
La Doctrina                       Feasibility                   82,400
Prado de Sevilla                  Feasibility                  139.700
Abrego                            Feasibility                   21,300
Coello                            Feasibility                  185,750
Coello                            Final Design                 199,000
Coello                            Final Design (Drainage)      205,850
Total       1,000,000



- 26 -
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
(LOAN 1996-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Covenants
DEADLINE FOR
COVENANT             SUBJECT                        COMPLIANCE                 STATUS
4.04      The Borrower shall:  (a) furnish to  By September 30,  The Borrower sent a plan of
the Bank a plan of action for          1982 send to the  action on August 11. 1983 but
transferring the Borrower's            Bank a plan of    did not reach the objective of
responsibilities of the district.    action.              preparing the districts for
included in the project area to                           financial independence from
User Associations in each of such                         the Government for their
districts; and (ii) promptly                              transition towards independent
thereafter put into effect such                           water management authorities.
plan of action.
5.02 (a)  The Borrower shall have its            By April 30        BIMAT complied but the audited
accounts and financial statements    (four months         reports were received by the
for each fiscal year audited and       after the end of  Bank with delays from three
will furnish the corresponding         the fiscal year)  months up to five months.  The
audit report to the Bank.                                 auditor (Contraloria General)
was always incapable of
completing the audits on time.
In Phase II. UIMAT has six
months after the end of the
fiscal year to comply with
audit requirements.
5.02 (b)  The Borrower shall have its Special  Not later than    These reports were delivered
(i) (ii)  Account audited for each semester    three months         to the Bank at the same time
starting January 1st and July 1st    after the end of  as the audited reports of
in each year. and furnish to the       such auditing      HIMAT s accounts and finaucial
Bank the corresponding audit           period.            statements with delays from
report; these audit reports must                          four to six months.
Include a separate opinion oan SOEs.



- 27 -
Table 6
DEADLINE FOR                     Page 2 of 2
COVENAN              SUBJECT                        COMPLINCE                  STATUS
04      The Borrower shall put into effect.  By January 1.        HIMDT's proposed plan was
and thereafter maintain, in each of  1983, HDIMh          presented on Nov. 22, 1983.
the project districts, drainage and  would present a   It the actual tariffs for
water charges, based on a system       1984 tariffs       i984, six districts had
satisfactory to the Bank. to           plan.              tariffs under the proposed
provide for the full recovery of                          fiDAT plan; in the actual
operating and maintenance costs and                       tariffs of 1985, three
of the investments in                                     districts did not comply.
infrastructure and equipment to be                        Sibundoy's fixed tariff was
financed under the loan, subject                          never introduced.  However.
however, to the financial capacity                        starting 1986 the situation in
of the beneficiaries in each such                         the other seven districts
district to pay such charges.                             improved.  The 1990 new policy
of the Government calls for a
mandatory full selfaufficiency
of the eight districts by
1995.
5.05 (a)  The Borrower shall collect in each   Not later than    Up to 1983 only three
(b)       of the project's eight districts at  April 30 of each  districts complied.  From 1984
least 80  of the annual amounts       year.              to 1986 *11 the districts
billed for water charges and                              complied.  In 1987 only one
furnish to the Bank an audited                            district complied.  However,
report of the compliance with the                         since project started and
minimum collection/billing ratios.                        until project closing,
recovery amounts as percentage
of the O&M costs have not been
higher than 392.



_ 28 -
COLO2IA                                 T     7
tRRIATtION R   tLtTATtON   PR                        --CT
(Load 1NS096)
PRJECT CPLETION REORT
USE OF SWN WESOUR#S
A. Staff top"
(man months)
FY             Preparation  Appraisal  Neotation*  Supervision        Other        Total
ino                 120.40                                                           120.40
1l61                 42.10       100.65         1.84          0.47                   144.62
I9n2                                                          8.15                     8.15
1985                                                         10.98                    10.98
10O4                                                         20.65                    20.85
1085                                                         11.58                    11.58
1080                                                          S.2                     13.27
1067                                                         19.84                    19.I4
108@                                                          5.90                     5.00
1989                                                          8.62         1.75        5.27
Tetel     106.04       100.65         1.84          3.01         1.75      301.29
S. Sank ission.l
Stage of Project     | Month/  I Nuubr of  I Day. In  |Speciallatioo* Performing I Typef   |
Cycl I             Y ear      P Io          Fiol    Id eRwesextd V/   R*tlaos   JPrblame 3/1
I-----StatusV I                        I
iThreugh Appraisal
IldJoatalestlete8nk        I           I/79  I           7             e
12d.ntifioatlon FAO/CP     I  0/79          4                   1 ,
IPr peration I  Sank FAG/CP    I1/80                      25 2     *b,c,d,, 
Prp ratien S2 Bok FAO/CP    6/80    1    4               30        *b,e,d
on Sank
IAppralal thr0ugh 8                                      2rd  |           d
I  ProserAoI n                                                                      I           I
AppPr le l                                   to/l        so       0 *,b,c,o,4t
lApprlsal Fellow-up         i01/            10          t             b
IAPPTo asl Folios-up           01/81         1           t             b
oard Approval Tbrhusb
ILlFlt Supervieion             *             1      I                  e
ISupervislon 1                 11/62         1           12                    1    1
lSupervslien 2                 a6/0s         2           14           e,g      1    1       1           1
SupervlIon 8J                  10/S1         1      1    7             0             1      1
Suprvislen 4               I  02/64         2            14     I           c
ISupervisleon t            1  0                                                                         I
Supervision o             I            1/86   1  1                             1                 P     I
Llult upervislon              04/66   I    2       1    2       1    *.e                   I
SUpervllsin? t                04/66         1            10     1     e             1                 1
'SupeVisol0n a                006    |    2        |    *       I    b.c            2 a          F     I
Supervision FAO/CP (9)    1  04/8    1    S        1    5       |   *,d,t      1    2      1           I
Supervision 10            111/67   1    1                6      I     e             2      I  F,L    I
SIuprviulon 11            1I0716    1    1         1    4       I     c        1    2      I  F, h    I
1/ o a elselon leader; b a e:onomist or agricultural economist;
c*  civil le er or hydraulic .niner; d a egrioulturallst;
* * ti anlel  analyst; I* a conultant 0 a livestock *Isecilist
2/ 1 a problem free; 2 a moerat  problem; 8 a "eriot  problem.
8/ P a Political; F a Financll; U a Management



COLOMBIA                       0    50   100   50   200    20   M00O
IRRIGA.TION  RHAB        ATN  I                         CILOWIE.S
Ar            [ROEc                        o         so       '°;0       l0       20                                     7r
A   Octsi.NpndnofRs b                                                ICA
o   Other P6Uio Disticts
-    Posed trunk rends 
Ped roDds
 trpvn~d rods
I,zRailrorads| 2rol z   j-. t.
Roi ocid discortmued  ~ATLANTI CC
o rte'rratioairl airportsA
*    Pared airpo'ts
*  Unpavd airports
Seaports                    CTrA
FW!ef In MetM ~ ~        br 
A5000 3,000    A   r                               d
7<     Ljuptnt,3ooo              i4 
- . , it ~~~~~~~~Up tolto 1 <  ',., 'DL t
<MPANAMA                        r.,_,r,,    ,           -y   4     5'-
- : ;i -              7 6- '   3   <                            v             ENEZUEl-A --
rxj<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
r t  \  a <r/ .'
I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~r i  J'3'   t'.r4$£',05f.e
t  '3                   Au NTIO4tzA6 lt8 -0  OA.. CYn
&,aat.                       C..  00  -N                        2 X           mA a
ECCUADOR                                                                 _      _,               '       I



