Document of
The World Bank    FILE COpY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3356a-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
COLOMBIA
Apríl 29, 1981
Projects Depaartment
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomsance of
their official duties. Its contenta may not otherwise be diselosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(end of 1980 and used in this report)
Currency Unit                         Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1                                    Col$ 50.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
(see next page)
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Glossary of Abbreviations
BOR            :Banco de la Republica
- Bank of the Republic (Central Bank)
CAJA            Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero
- Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank
CIAT           Cientro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical
- International Centre for Tropical Agriculture
DNP             Departamento de Planeacion Nacional
- National Planning Department
FEDEARROZ       Federacion Nacional de Arroceros
- National Federation of Rice Growers
FEDECAFE        Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia
- National Federation of Colombian Coffee Growers
FFAP            Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
- Agricultural Financing Fund
HIMAT           Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuacion de Tierras
Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement
ICA             Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
- Colombian Agricultural Institute
IDEMA           Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
Institute for Agricultural Marketing
INCORA          Instituto Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
INDERENA        Instituto Nacional de Recursos Naturales Renovables
- National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources
OPSA            Oficina de Planeamiento del Sector Agropecuario
Planning Office for the Agricultural Sector
SENA            Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
- National Apprenticeship Service
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



6



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND . ...............................    .... ..     ..........          1
A.  The Agr:Lcultural Sector ............. .  ................... .            1
B.  Agricultural Developnent Strategy ..................           ...         2
C.  Marketing, Support Services and Credit .............          ...          3
D.  The Irrigation Subsector  .....            .........................       5
E.  Subsector Issues           ......................................          7
F.  Performance Under On-Going Bank Projects  ............ e.                  8
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND AREAS ..........................                    10
A.  Drainage and Irrigation Schemes Phase I ....              ...........     10
B.  Phase II Development . ................................ .                 12
C.  Land Tenure and Land Use .................             .............      13
III. THE PROJECT             ...............................................        13
A.  Introduction ............        ............................             13
B.  Project Objectives  ....................................                  13
C.  Description                ..................................             14
D.  Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering  .......                  16
E.  Project Cost ........... ......................................           17
F.  Financing    ...................        ..........................        18
G.  Procurement e.*.....a......................                               19
H.  Disbursements  ..........  .............................. .               20
1.  Retroactive Financing .            q                " a                   21
J.  Environmental Impact ........ . . . . .  .................................. .  21
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ........ .. .........                  21
A.  Organization and Management  ...........................                  21
B.  Project Execution . ........ . .......... .   ................. .         23
C.  Lending Policies and Procedures                 .......................   24
D.  Agricultural Credit ...................................                   26
E.  Account:s and Auditing  ......................... ..                      28
F.  Operation, Maintenance and Water Charges  .............           .       30
G.  Training .         ..............................................         33
H.  Monitoring and Reporting  ..............................                  34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in October 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. J.H. Laeyendecker
(engineer), I. Bannon (economist), C. Barham (economist), J.P. Baudelaire
(engineer, FAO/CP), F. Bligh (consultant, landleveling), O. Cordon (consul-
tant, livestock specialist), I. Greif (consultant, financial analyst),
G. Rioseco (economist), O. Schulz (agronomist) and J. Yaron (fínancial analyst).



Table of Contents (Continued)                                                 Page No.
V.    PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  ........................    34
A.  Technical Coefficients .....            ..........................     34
B.  Illustrative Investment Models .              ......................  35
C.  Production ........          ...................................      36
D.  Markets, Prices and Marketing .....            ...................     37
E.  Farm Income ..........................................                38
F.  Project Rent and Cost Recovery .......................    39
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...............................    40
A.  Project Effects ......................................    40
B.  Economic Analysis and Sensitivity ....................    41
C.  Risk .................................................    42
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...                 43
ANNEX 1
Civil Works Description ......           .........................    45
ANNEX 2
Table No.
1  -  District Characteristics ...........................    48
2  -  Land Tenure ........................................                49
3  -  District Development  ...............................               50
4  -  Schedule of Expenditures ...........................    51
5  -  Schedule of Expenditures,  Sources of
Financing and Disbursements ......................    52
6  -  Cost Table .........................................                53
7  -  District Investments ...............................    54
8  -  Equipment to be Procured ...........................    55
9  -  Preparation Phase II ...............................                56
10  -  Training Program ...................................   57-59
11  -  Technical Assistance Requirements  ....              ..............    60
12  -  Disbursement Schedule ..............................    61
13  -  HIMAT:  Condensed Income Statement ....               .............    62
14  -  HIMAT:  Condensed Balance Sheet ....................    63
15  -  Recovery of Operation and Maintenance Costs
1980 Water Charges and Proposed Water Charges for
O and M Recovery .......           ..........................    64



Table of Contents (Contínued)                                     Page No.
Table No. (Conti.ued)
16  - Present and Future Yields ......      ......................  65
17  - Financial and Economíc Príces .....      ...................  66
18  -  Summary of Rent and Cost Recovery Indices ....   ........  67
ANNEX 3
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File..   68
Chart IBRD 22496 - Organization Chart of HIMAT ..................  69
Map IBRD 15418 -- Project Location



.



IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      During the decade of the seventies, total GDP (in 1970 prices)
increased at an annual average rate of 6.0%, whereas growth of the agricultural
sector averaged an annual rate of 4.6% in the same period. The agricultural
sector's share of GDP decreased from about 34% in the late 1960s to 26% in
1979, with 13% contributed by the crop subsector, 10% by the livestock sub-
sector, and 3% by the fishing, hunting and forestry subsectors. Of an esti-
mated population of about 26.1 million (mid-1979), nearly 8.6 million, or 33%,
live in rural areas, and 26% of the economically active force is engaged in
the agricultural sector. Average GNP per capita in Colombia is about US$1,010
(current US dollars), disguising a skewed income distribution and important
differences between urban and rural areas.
1.02      Considerable efforts have been made in Colombia to diversify
exports, and non--traditional exports have grown continuously, representing
an average of 44% of total merchandise exports during the 1975-77 period
compared with 27% in 1967. Currently, registered agricultural exports
increased to about 70% of the total merchandise exports in Colombia. Export
performance, however, is highly influenced by coffee prices, and the volume
of coffee exports more than doubled since 1967, accounting for nearly all of
the increase of value of exports of the economy. In addition to coffee,
representing 76% of the sector's registered exports, main exports in order of
importance are: cotton, bananas and plantain, livestock (beef and cattle),
sugar, rice, flowers and tobacco. The agricultural sector has a híghly
favorable balance of trade, with total food imports averaging about 8% of
total imports. Apart from wheat, representing 24% of total food imports, and
temperate fruits, main imports which could be replaced by domestic production
are vegetable oils, feed and food grains and milk.
1.03      Aggregate domestic demand for food products in Colombia has grown
rapidly (3.8% per annum during 1970-75), and in recent years has nearly
equaled the growth in output of the sector. However, considering that exports
have grown at a rate of 13% per annum during the 1974-78 period, much of the
increased demand for food has been met from imports and food prices have risen
more rapidly than other prices in the country.
Land Use and Rural Incomes
1.04      Colombia is extremely heterogeneous in terms of altitude, climate
and soils, and this results in a wide range of production possibilities, and a
considerable diversity of farm types and incomes. The main farm types are:
(a) large-scale extensive ranching on the Caribbean coast and the eastern
plains (Llanos orientales); (b) modern medium- and large-scale mechanized
farming as well as traditional small- and medium-scale farming in the inter-
Andean valleys; (c) farming on Government-assisted settlements in the Caribbean
lowlands and, te) a lesser extent, in the Amazon basin; (d) spontaneously
colonized farming in the tropical rainforests of the eastern plains; and (e)
small-scale faruiíng ín the Andes híghlands.



-2-
1.05      According to the 1970/71 census, of the total land area of 114 mil-
lion ha, some 31 million ha were in farms (1.2 million farm units), of which
7.7 million ha were cropped, 17.5 million ha were in pasture and the balance
fallow or unused. The census also estimated that farms of less than 10 ha
accounted for 13% of the total of 1.2 million farm units and their area of 7%
of the 31 million ha in farms; overall, sorne 83% of all farmers had less than
20 ha and operated 13% of the farmland. Income distribution in the sector is
more skewed than at the national level and closely related to the distribution
of land. In 1977, about 50% of the rural population had incomes below the
relative poverty income level as defined by the Bank (US$267 per capita in
1977 dollars). Partly because of high rural-urban migration rates in recent
years, rural unemployment and underemployment was estimated at 15% for 1977,
and reports of seasonal labor shortages in certain areas are common.
Agrarian Reform
1.06      Since 1961, The Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform (INCORA)
(para 1.23) has been involved in programs of distribution of public land (4.9
million ha as of June 1978) and redistribution of unused private land (0.7
million ha), benefiting a total of about 200,000 families. However, most of
the land distributed so far has been assigned to families already occupying
the land. Land titling activities are limited mostly to distributing titles
to small-scale farmers on public land in colonization areas. Land acquisition
for redistribution has been at a virtual standstill since 1974.
B. Agricultural Development Strategy
1.07      Within the context of the National Integration Plan, the National
Planning Department (DNP) recently issued a policy document stating the
objectives and strategies for the development of the rural sector in the
1980s. The main objectives are to: (a) increase substantially productivity
of resources utilized in the agricultural sector; (b) improve efficiency and
competitiveness of the marketing system; (c) develop agroindustries to
stabilize demand and increase employment and rural incomes; and (d) increase
substantially foreign exchange earnings through exports of products of the
agricultural sector. In line with the above objectives, top priority has been
given to improving technology and infrastructure, through public investments
in research and extension; rural roads; land development (mainly watershed
management, irrigation and drainage); storage; agroindustries; and marketing
facilities (para 1.11). In addition, the main sector policies governing
credit, prices and foreign trade would be redesigned to provide adequate
incentives to the private sector.
1.08      The main emphasis is being placed on the increase of production as
a solution to economic/social problems, which are perceived especially in
terms of lack of employment. Growth of the industrial/agricultural sector and
rural development are considered to be complementary, with a considerable
emphasis on agroindustries. The main thrust of these policies is toward the
modern agricultural sector as the main source of foreign exchange earnings and
as a producer of food to complement the output of the traditional sector.



However, within the context of the overall sector policies, the specific
development problems of the small-scale farm subsector would continue to be
assisted through specific programs such as integrated rural development
programs and the provision of technical assistance and credit to consolidate
the agrarian refortm process. Land redistribution and colonization are to
be carried out only in response to local circumstances in areas with both a
high pressure on land and unequal distribution, but it is not regarded as
the primary means for reducing rural poverty.
1.09      Regarding development of the rice industry, DNP has under prepara-
tion an indicative plan through which the Government expects to identify policy
measures necessary to promote development of rice exports on a stable basis.
The value of 1979 rice exports amounted to US$35 míllion, compared to US$20
million in 1977. One of the principal means to boost rice production is
irrigation. There has been a steady shift from rainfed rice toward irrigated
rice cultivation. In 1961 there were 105,000 ha irrigated and 132,000 ha
rainfed rice while in 1980 there were 356,000 ha irrigated and 95,000 ha
rainfed rice.
1.10      Insofar as irrigation and drainage development is concerned, Govern-
meint's priority is to complete projects which have already been started, reha-
bilitate existing irrigation and drainage schemes and reduce subsidies for
írrigation development by improving cost recovery measures in irrigation
districts.  In this regard, Government is very much in favor of developing
independently operated irrigation districts from which direct HIMAT (para 1.26)
assistance can be withdrawn.
C. Marketing, Support Services and Credit
Marketing
1.11      The main public institutions operating in the market place are the
Institute for Agricultural Marketing (IDEMA) and the Agricultural, Industrial
and Mining Credit Bank (Caja). IDEMA intervention takes the form of purchases
through price support schemes in the case of grains, sales, imports and
maintenance of regulatory stocks of basic foods, while Caja intervenes in the
sale of farm inputs. The National Price Superintendency controls retail
prices of selected products. In addition, the Government has created, or
assisted in the creation of, several mixed economy companies. Among these are
the Union of Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, wholesale and farmers' markets, and
other enterprises marketing perishable and non-perishable agricultural products,
all of which work in the area of credit, price information, storage and
distribution and training to reduce costs and improve the marketing system.
The Government's market stabilization policies through IDEMA have had only a
marginal impact and agricultural prices fluctuate considerably.
Rlesearch and Farmer Advisory Services
1..12     The main institutions
responsible for research and farmer advisory services are the Colombian
Agricultural Institute (ICA) and the National Institute for Renewable Natural
Resources (INDERERNA).  Other agencies involved in technical assistance or



- 4 -
farmers' training are INCORA, the National Federation of Colombian Coffee
Growers (FEDECAFE), the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA) and the Depart-
mental Secretariats of Agriculture. A key institution responsible for the
promotion of cultivating irrigated high yielding paddy is the National
Association of Rice Growers (FEDEARROZ), which, while established by the ríce
growers themselves in 1947, now receives its principal financial support from
Government with proceeds from a sales tax on rice. Inter alia, the agency
undertakes rice research and disseminates findings via an expert technical
advisory staff. For 1980 FEDEARROZ has put the major emphasis on promoting
land leveling and cultivation of rice by puddling in an effort to improve
production efficiency for the commodity.
1.13      Current agricultural credit legislation requires adequate
provision of technical assistance to sub-borrowers; consequently, there is a
high demand for agricultural extension services. Besides INCORA, ICA is the
largest extension agency in the country, providing most of the technical
assistance to small scale farmers (under 10 ha). It is also responsible for
registering and monitoring the technical assistance provided by about 3,000
private agricultural extension agents. In the banking sector, Caja and the
Livestock Bank (Banco Ganadero) maintain their own staffs to provide technical
assistance to their borrowers, with Caja also relying on extension services
provided by INCORA, ICA and indivíduals. In recent years, loans outstanding
to the agricultural sector have represented about 20% of total outstanding
institutional credit. Major sources of agricultural credit are the Agricultural
Financing Fund (FFAP) and Caja.
1.14      FFAP was established in 1974 in the Bank of the Republic (BOR) to
channel local and foreign resources to the agricultural sector, princípally
to commercial farming, through rediscounts to the banking system. Funds are
allocated annually to various end uses in the sector by a committee, including
representation from the Ministry of Agriculture and farmers. During 1980,
FFAP allocated about US$500 million equivalent.
1.15      Caja is the leading agriculture credit institution in Colombia,
in particular for small-scale farmers. As of June 1980, Caja's agricultural
portfolio amounted to the equivalent of US$620 million, of which US$420
million was from Caja's own resources, the balance being supplied principally
from FFAP funds. At end-1978, beneficiaries numbered 421,000, of whom 90%
were small-scale farmers.
1.16      For the past three years, despite Government fiscal and monetary
policies to restrain price increases, inflation reached 34.8% in 1977,
16.7% in 1978, and 24.7% in 1979. Although interest rates for industrial
development have generally remained positive in real terms, average interest
rates for agricultural credit have not kept pace with inflation, although
they were raised in late 1978, 1979 and again in 1980. The nominal FFAP
annual rate for most crops and livestock for the 1980-81 crop year is 21%,
and Caja rates for its ordinary resources range from 16% to 29%. However,
average effective interest rates for both FFAP and Caja are somewhat higher
since interest is charged at the beginning of each quarter or semester unless
the loan carries a grace period; in this case, the interest is charged at
the end of each period. In addition, borrowers are required to carry life
insurance at an annual rate of 1% on outstanding loan balances and, in the



case of medium- and large-scale farmers, an additional 1% of outstanding loan
balances is charged as a contribution toward the technical assistance
fund to provide small-scale farmers with ICA extension services.
D. The Irrigation Subsector
1.17      About 600,000 ha are under irrigation in Colombia, representing
approximately 12% of the total cropped area. Most of the irrigation schemes
are in the "hot lands" (tierras calidas), zones below 500 m altitude. They
are located in the central part of the country, in the inter-Andean valleys,
in the northwest near the Venezuelan border, and in the northern regions along
the Caribbean coast.  Areas in the Magdalena/Cauca and Catatumbo river valleys
and along the Cesar river show greatest potentíal for development of new
schemes.
1.18      Rice is the most important irrigated crop in Colombia.  Out of
450,000 ha under rice, 356,000 ha are irrigated, or about 60% of the total
irrigated area. Irrigated ríce accounts for 90% of total rice production.
Due to the introduction of high yielding varieties (HYV's), either imported
(IRRI 22) or developed by Colombian research institutes (CICA 7 and 9), rice
production underwent a dramatic change in the 1970s. Farmers changed from
rainfed local varieties yielding 2 tons/ha/crop (paddy) to irrigated improved
varieties yieldling a national average of 5 tons/ha/crop. Other irrigated
crops include sugarcane, banana, plantain, cotton, maize, sorghum, soybeans,
vegetables, fruits, flowers and pasture.
1.19      The extent of irrigation varies according to the various climatic
zones, but, in general, there is full irrigation during the major dry season,
which lasts about four months per year (January-April), and supplementary
irrigation during the dry spells which occur within the rainy season, in
particular during July and August. Rice is irrigated throughout the year,
while other crops receive only supplementary irrigation, except on the dry
side of mountain ranges where year-round irrigation must be practiced as well.
1.20      In general, surface drainage is essential in Colombia, not only
to draín water--logged areas, but also to avoid water logging during the rainy
season. All rainfed crops in irrigable lands require a good drainage system,
except for natural pastures which can withstand temporary inundation.
1.21      Two types of irrigation/drainage schemes exist in Colombia:
(a)  about 500,000 ha of private schemes, operated without Covernment
assistance and located mostly in the Cauca and Magdalena river
valleys. This area is principally associated with production of
rice or industrial crops such as sugarcane on a commercial scale;
and
(b) Government schemes, also called irrigation/drainage districts.
There were 22 such districts located in 11 departments with a
cultivable area totalling about 235,000 ha, of which 110,000 ha



- 6 -
are actually irrigated per year. Of these districts, two have
been transferred to water users' associations for self-management.
Seven districts are providing only irrigation, three only drainage,
and 10 are combined irrigation/drainage schemes, so that a total
of 20 districts remains.
1.22      Most of the Government districts were established in the 1960s
by INCORA for beneficiaries of agrarian reform. The number of farm families
in the districts is about 20,000. About 50% are smallholders with less than
5 ha and about 35% are INCORA-assisted settlers with farms ranging in size
from 5 to 40 ha. Often INCORA farmers are grouped in communal farms of 50 to
100 ha, each with lo to 15 beneficiary families. The average area per bene-
ficiary family for the 20 districts is 13.7 ha.
Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform
1.23      INCORA is an autonomous Government institution established under
Agrarian Reform Law 135 of 1961 to reform the agrarian social structure of
Colombia. In pursuit of its objectives, INCORA initially concentrated its
efforts on land reform. However, because complementary investments were not
being provided by other institutions and, in the later years, because of
strong political resistance to its land reform activities, INCORA was induced
to diversify its operations considerably. The broad range of activities
undertaken involves: (a) land acquisition on behalf of the National Agrarian
Fund through the various processes of purchase and expropriation; (b) issue of
titles and land distribution to beneficiaries; (c) land settlement projects;
(d) land and water development projects, including provision of physical
(irrigation, drainage, roads) and social (houses, schools, health centers,
rural electrification and potable water) infrastructure; (e) supervised credit
operations for agrarian reform beneficiaries and other small-scale farmers;
(f) technical assistance and extension services; (g) promotion and management
of cooperatives; and (h) promotion of and support of "empresas comunitarias".
1.24      INCORA's activities have never been free of controversy and in
recent years it has been subject to severe budgetary constraints. Therefore,
INCORA's land acquisition has been at a standstill since 1974. The underlying
reason for INCORA's problems is the lack of political commitment by the
administration; also, INCORA's activities have been subject to a great deal
of political debate and criticism. Recent administrations were not able, or
willing, to identify clearly which activities should continue and which should
be stopped and thus obtain political decisions on INCORA's future. Therefore,
INCORA has been unable to convert efficiently from land reform activities,
which apparently no longer carry any political priority, to activities which
are less politically contentious, such as the consolidation of past efforts
in land reform and continuation of its colonization program.
1.25      From the institutional point of view, the main problems that
have persistently affected on-going projects are related to the weaknesses
of pro5ect mana%exlet , INGORP's fixaxxcial- sitxatio, ad a e.1ottag    P
Government counterpart funds for the projects. There are about 200,000
small-scale farmers throughout Colombia who have received land from INCORA



or have benefitted from the titling activities of this agency. However,
of the 200,000 potential benefíciaríes of technícal assistance and credít,
defined as land reform/colonization farmers, the actual number that can be
assísted effectively by INCORA with its existing organization, staff and
infrastructure in the 20 INCORA administrative regions is currently estimated
at about 52,000 farm families. Most of INCORA's beneficiaries have access
to no other credit facilities than those provided through INCORA, mainly as
a consequence of their legal status (land already mortgaged) and socio-economic
condition, neither of which corresponds to the guarantees normally requíred by
the banking sector.
Colombian Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology, and Land Improvement
1.26      HIMAT was established in 1976 by Decree 132 as an autonomous public
body attached to the Ministry of Agriculture to assume the civil works functions
previously carried out by INCORA (para 1.23). Under this legislation, HIMAT
has independent assets, with jurisdiction for land development throughout the
national territcry.
1.27      The rationale of creating HIMAT and transferring to it INCORA's
civil works authority was that such a move would free physical land develop-
ment from the political and social controversy surrounding agrarian reform.
Although in January 1976 all aspects of civil works related to Government
land reclamation and development schemes and the completion of all irrigation
and drainage districts legally became the sole responsibility of HIMAT, it
took more than one year before operation, maintenance and new construction
ín the last disl:rict was transferred to HIMATVs control.
1.28      As laid down by Decree 132, HIMAT is supervised by a Board of
Directors and managed by a General Manager who is the organization's legal
representative. The Board is composed of the General Managers of the Electric
Energy Institute, the Geographical Institute, INDERENA, INCORA, the Civil
Aeronautics Admínistration Department, and the Ministries of Public Works and
Agriculture or their representatives. The Director General is responsible to
the Board for the efficient management of the organization and for carrying
out policy decisions.
1.29      Since its creation in 1976, HIMAT has received Government transfers
amounting to about 85% to 90% of íts total operating expenses and investments.
The other source of income has been the collection of water charges from the
water users (para 4.30).
E. Subsector Issues
1.30      While private irrigation schemes are generally run efficiently,
operation of public districts has suffered from the reduction of INCORA's
activities and curtailed budgetary resources which have affected operation
of many public entities in Colombia. On average, only about 40% of the
total command areas are intensively cultivated with two irrigated crops
per year, 20% are cultivated with one or two rainfed crops, and 40% are
under natural pasture for livestock breeding.



-8-
1.31      Underutilization of public districts occurs for several reasons,
chief of which are poor maintenance of infrastructure and poor water control
at the farm level.  Among reasons for these problems are:  obsolete equip-
ment, dating from the early INCORA period, for operation and maintenance,
incompleted infrastructure; lack of appropriate land leveling; high rates
of siltation; poor engineering designs in some instances; insufficient
level of water charges; and the lack of appropriate on-farm development
credit and organized extension work, particularly ín the field of water
management.
F. Performance Under On-Going Bank Projects
1.32      Since 1966, the Bank has made 11 loans, totalling US$250.6 million,
to Colombia for the agricultural sector. Six of these loans were made for
INCORA projects, of which three were for irrigation/drainage: Atlantico
Irrigation Project (502-CO) (completed); Second Atlantico Development (849-CO);
and Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development (1163-CO).  HIMAT is assocíated with
the latter two ongoing projects, though its involvément began after the
initiation of the two projects and its role is subordinate to that of INCORA.
The PPAR for the Atlantico Irrigation Project (Loan 502-CO) estimated its
rate of return below 5%. It concluded that the project should have been
executed as a floód control scheme rather than a sprinkler irrigation scheme.
Second Atlantico Development Project (Loan 849-CO to Government)
1.33      The project, which became effective in November 1972, comprises
the second stage of INCORA's agrarian reform and development program in the
Atlantico Department initiated under Loan 502-CO. The loan, oríginally for
US$5 millaon, was reduced to US$2.2 million in January 1977, with readjusted
total project costs being US$4.3 millíon. The project would assist in the
completion of INCORA's flood control and drainage program in the project
area, a total of 12,400 ha for crop production and 4,600 ha for dairy
production. The project consists of the construction of drainage and roads
infrastructure; purchase of equipment; acquisition, preparation and allocation
of land to about 1,800 farmers; and provision of seasonal and long-term
credit to dairy farmers and agricultural research, training and extension.
The project has encountered serious problems of social, agricultural and
technical nature and project performance has been disappointing. Only 840
families have been settled in the area.
Cagueta II - Rural Settlement Project (Loan 1118-CO to Government)
1.34      This project became effective in April 1976.  Total Bank financing
is US$19.5 million, out of US$44.7 million total project costs. The project,
which is helping small-scale farmers who live under hardship conditions,
includes: (a) a credit program of about 3,200 subloans for livestock purchase
and 800 medium-term subloans for cattle fattening; and (b) an infrastructure
coapotnent including construction of about 200 km of roads; construction of 30
primary schools, two health centers and 10 health posts; improvement of water



- 9 -
and sewerage systems; and a forestry and erosion control component. The
project ínfrastructure is expected to benefit about 12,000 settlers in the
area. Executioin of the works undertaken is good, but overall implementation
is slow because INCORA has permanent liquidity problems. Due to delays in
implementatíon and unexpectedly high rates of inflation, about US$7.6 million
in additional counterpart funds will be required to complete the productive
and social infrastructure components.
Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1163-CO to Government)
1.35      Effective since March 1976, the Bank loan finances US$21 million
out of a total of US$35.7 million in project cost. The project includes the
rehabilitation and completion of a 40,000-ha drainage system; on-farm develop-
ment on 20,000 ha; provision of medium- and long-term credit to small-scale
farmers for on-farm development and purchase  of machinery and livestock; and
a program to imnprove infrastructure for education, health services, village
water supply, and electrification. The project would benefit about 3,800
rural families   Initial implementation problems due to the reorganization of
INCORA and the transfer of the civil works to HIMAT have been resolved and
satisfactory progress has been made during 1980 in the implementation of
the works for drainage, flood protection, roads and bridges. With the
exception of rural electrifícation, which has been completed, and education,
progress in the implementation of the remaining social infrastructure compo-
nents (health and water supply) has been slow. The main reason for the poor
performance of these components is the precarious financial situation of
INCORA, Also, the absence of sufficient counterpart funds and capable
staff is seriously affecting the credit component of the project.
Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1352-CO to Government)
1.36      The loan, US$52 million for a project with total costs of US$131
million, becarne effective in August 1977. The project provides social and
physical infrastructure and integrated delivery of supervised credit with
technical advice on farm production and marketíng to small-scale farmers in
three geographic areas of marked poverty. The project is part of a US$250
million national program also supported by IDB (US$65 million) and the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) (US$13 million), which over five years,
should benefit about one-quarter of the low-income target group in rural
Colombia. After three years of implementation, the project is proceeding well
and according to schedule and a follow-up loan is being appraised by the Bank.
Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1357-CO to Banco de la Republica)
1.37      The loan of US$64 million toward a US$74.1 million project became
effective ín September 1977. The project finances medium- and long-term
credit for crops and livestock, machinery contractors, and agroindustries.
A total of US$14 millíon is reserved for small-scale commercial farmers. BOR,
through its Departamento de Credito de Fomento and FFAP, is responsible for
overall administration and for relending funds to participating institutions
through its rediscounting facilities. Progress in disbursing funds for
medium- and large-scale farmers and machinery contractors and for the agro-
industrial component is satisfactory. For small-scale commercial farmers,



- 10 -
however, commitment of allocated funds is lagging. The main obstacle is
FFAP's credit system which is inadequate to meet small-scale farmers' needs
and the lack of counterpart funds specifically reserved for small-scale
farmers.
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1737-CO to INCORA)
1.38      This loan of US$20 million, effective since October 1980, provides
supervised credit for on-farm development, including incremental working
capital, to about 7,600 land reform/colonization beneficiaries who have had
limited access to credit. It will also assist in the development of small
agroindustries, and provide technical assistance and training programs for
INCORA field staff and beneficiaries as well as project monitoring and
evaluation.
Summary
1.39      In general, the main hindrance to implementation of Bank-financed
projects in Colombia in recent years has been the restrictive budgetary
policies adopted by Government, which limit the bridging finance available
to implementing agencies, thereby severely curtailing their capacity to
implement project works on schedule (para 4.09). On balance, INCORA's perfor-
mance during the implementation of earlier Bank projects was satisfactory;
however, since 1976, INCORA's capabilities as executing agency for Bank-financed
projects have deteriorated steadily and the institution has been unable to
implement on-going projects on time or to comply with important loan conditions.
The underlying reason for INCORA's problems is the lack of political commitment
by the administration (para 1.24). On the other hand, HIMAT's activities in
the Cordoba 2 project (1163-CO) have been satisfactory. From the steady
increase in Government's budgetary allocations to HIMAT (Implementation
Document, Part 9), it can be concluded that HIMAT as an institution is in the
ascendance. Therefore, there is reason to have confidence in HIMAT as a new
Colombian borrower for a Bank Loan, although it is as vulnerable to changes in
political attitudes as any other semí-autonomous institute in Colombia.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION AND AREAS
A. Drainage and Irrigation Schemes Phase I
2.01      The project was identified in June 1979 during discussions between
DNP and a joint Bank/FAO-CP mission. The Government had selected for rehabi-
litation 15 irrigation or drainage dístricts, from a total of 20. During
follow-up preparation by FAO-CP missíons in September 1979, January 1980 and
July 1980, with Bank staff participation, it was decided, with Government
agreement, that it would be better to carry out the entire rehabilitation
program in several phases for technical, economical and social reasons. The
proposed project represents the first phase, which would rehabilitate eight
districts, with a total gross area of 76,200 ha (map IBRD 15418).



- 11 -
2.02      Selection criteria applied to projects for inclusion in the first
phase were: status of preparation, expected economic rate of return, urgency
of needed repairs and interest by other international financing institutions
in rehabilitating some other districts. A certain preference to include rice
districts also played a role, since rice is one of the most remunerative crops
to be grown under irrigation in Colombia. This has resulted in the formation
of a rice farming population which can be considered progressive and poten-
tially inclined to large-scale acceptance of the land leveling program, which
is one of the key elements in the proposed project.
2.03      Colombia is characterized by an extreme variation in topographic
conditions which produce extremes in rainfall and climatological variations,
particularly between the high mountain ranges. The eight districts selected
for phase I rehabilitation reflect these variations. Altitudes of the districts
range from 100 m to 2,600 m above sea level and average annual rainfall ranges
from 750 mm to 2,640 mm. Annex 2, Table 1 summarizes some of the geographical
and climatological characteristics, which are discussed in detail in the
Implementation Document. The single common denominator for all districts is
that the clímate permits two crops per year, if water can be controlled by
providing either irrigation during the dry season (January-April and to a
lesser extent July-August) and flood protection and drainage during the wet
periods.
20o4      With the exception of the districts of Rio Recio, Samaca and R.U.T.,
the other five were envisaged as districts to serve principally agrarian
reform beneficiaries. Therefore, the guiding reason for their creation
was availability of low cost Government-owned lands which could be distributed
easily without expropriation problems. Technical and economical irrigation
criteria were relegated to second priority with the result that two districts,
El Juncal and San Alfonso, were no doubt uneconomical investments, suffering
from diseconomies of scale because of their small areas and from costly water
supply and conveyance systems.
2.05      The eight districts can be divided into three categories:
(a) rice growing irrigation districts: Rio Recio, El Juncal,
San Alfonso and Zulia;
(b)  other irrigated crop districts:  R.U.T. and Samaca; and
(c) drainage districts: Sibundoy and Lebrija.
The drainage districts, Sibundoy and Lebrija, have important cattle farming
components, but in Lebrija, the highest rainfall district, rice growing is
also important. Neither drainage district was ever completed. Zulia and,
to a lesser extient, El Juncal also permit further extension with irrigation
infrastructure.
2.06      Access to roads and markets is good in R.U.T., Rio Recio, El Juncal,
and Samaca; poor in San Alfonso and Sibundoy, and intermediate in Lebrija and
Zulia.



- 12 -
2.07      Water supply is restricted in Rio Recio, Samaca, San Alfonso
and in El Juncal. For the latter, the limiting factor, once its pumps have
been replaced, would be the high cost of pumping. Irrigation water is obtained
from small dams in Rio Recio and Samaca, by pumping in R.U.T. and El Juncal,
from a river intake in San Alfonso, and through a diversion weir in Zulia.
2.08      In contrast to very high yield levels for paddy production (5 tons/
ha/crop) in the rice districts, their common problem consists of high water
consumption (3 l/sec/ha) because rice is not grown in leveled basins, as in
all other major rice producing countries, but on sloping fields with low
contour bunds, which contribute, apart from water wastage, to high on-farm
annual costs of water distribution and of inputs (seed and fertilizer) and
loss of the frequently abundant natural rainfall.  The other major problem in
the rice areas is infestation with red rice and, to a lesser degree, with the
fungus Pirícularia sativae.
2.09      In Rio Recio farmers are receptive to the idea of changing their
method of rice cultivation towards leveled basins. Here, 800 ha have been
leveled by farmers by their own means. However, leveling methods used to
date have been slow and costly because of lack of use of specialized equipment,
although this is available in Colombia.
2.10      In R.U.T. and Samaca, many farmers use privately owned sprinkler
equipment, driven by small diesel pumps. In Samaca, an archaic network of
small irrigation canals, which at the same time are the drains from areas
further upstream, renders district control of water distribution virtually
impossible.
B. Phase II Development
2.11      Government requested the Bank to consider also rehabilitation of
the following districts (see map IBRD 15418): Repelon, Santa Lucia, Manati,
Maria La Baja, Alto Chicamocha, La Doctrina and Abrego. Most of these
districts have serious problems, often of a social or legal nature.
2.12      In addition to the seven districts mentioned above, there are the
two rice districts of Uso Coello and Uso Saldana, with a total of 46,000
cultivable ha. These two districts are administered by water users' organiza-
tions but they receive technical assistance from HIMAT. The main problem in
these two districts is shortage of irrigation water, aggravated by a deterio-
rated canal network and the same water-wasting type of rice cultivation as
described in para 2.08.
2.13      The district of Rio Recio has potentíal for the construction of
a larger dam, permitting a substantial increase in irrigated area. El Juncal's
present water supply system is worth saving for the time being because of the
existing large sunk costs. For the future however, construction of a different
supply system should be investigated.  A potential foT c:xeap gTouont&wateT
exploitation is reported to exist in Samaca and Lebrija. This would permit
extension of the equipped area of Samaca and supplementary irrigation in
Lebrija. Together with the rehabilitation of Uso Coello and Uso Saldana,
these elements are likely components for a phase II program.



- 13 -
C.  Land Tenure and Land Use
2.14      Annex 2, Table 2 provides an insight in the land tenure pattern
among the 4,800 beneficiary families. It is split up between the beneficiaries
of agrarian reform and private holdings (70% of total beneficiary familíes).
The INCORA farmers (beneficiaries of agrarian reform) normally considered as
small-scale farmers hold 36% of the land although they constitute 30% of the
total number of beneficiaries. The reason is that among the private farmers
there are many very small-scale farmers, as illustrated by the districts of
Samaca, Sibundoy, San Alfonso and R.U.T. For the project as a whole, the
average size farm of the agrarian reform beneficiaries is 12.1 ha whereas for
the private farmers it is 9.4 ha.
2.15      Land use in the rice districts except Zulia optimizes scarce water
resources through an intricate water rotation system with phased periods of
seeding, so that lharvesting takes place somewhere every month. The best
farmers are thus capable of obtaining five harvests in two years, provided
they can obtain sulfficient water.  In Zulia, neither land nor water are
scarce, but farmers are less advanced and here INCORA beneficiaries suffer
from lack of credit availability, resulting in land being left fallow.  In
R.U.T., all land is used but irrigation facilities are underutilized partly
from lack of medium-term credit to purchase sprinkler equipment.  In Sibundoy,
all cultivable latnd is utilized but 72% of the area has no drainage or road
infrastructure and, as a result, it can be used only for extensive grazing.
In Samaca, there is a strong tendency to grow vegetables where a reliable
water supply is available. Since this is not the case in most of the district,
farmers presently concentrate on wheat, barley and low quality pasture.
III. TRE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      The gross area of the eight districts selected for the project
is 76,000 ha, of which 64,000 ha are cultivable and 36,000 ha are presently
equipped with irrigation or drainage infrastructure (Annex 2, Table 3).
B. Project Objectives
3,02       The objectives of the Irrigation Rehabilitation 1 Project are to:
(a)  halt deterioration of existing irrigation infrastructure
(canals, dikes, structures and roads) through rehabilitation,
thus preventing loss of productive land due to lack of water or
inundation;
(b) construct new infrastructure to maximize use of available
water and land resources in six of the eight districts (Sibundoy,
Lebrija, El Juncal, Zulia, R.U.T. and Samaca);



- 14 -
(c) introduce rice cultivation in leveled basíns to promote efficiency
in irrigation water use and to reduce the cost of inputs to the
farmers;
(d) except for rice, increase irrigated crop yields and introduce
improved livestock farming methods in the drainage districts of
Sibundoy and Lebrija;
(e) provide means to carry out adequate distríct operation and
maintenance;
(f) prepare the districts for financial independence from Government
and for their transition toward independent water management
authorities through gradual improvement in the level and structure
of water tariffs to recover their true annual operation and main-
tenance costs, and where possible, to recover under existing legal
regulations, at least part of the costs of new investments in
infrastructure;
(g) strengthen technícal expertíse at HIMAT in water management
practices and economic project evaluation; and
(h) prepare a Phase II rehabilitation project.
C. Descríption
3.03      To achieve these objectives, the project will:
(a) design and execute rehabilitation and new construction works. These
works are characterized by their large number, dispersed location
and small individual size. Details for the individual districts
are provided in the Implementation Document, Parts 1 to 8 and
summarized in Annex 1;
(b) provide technical assistance, specific equipment and medium-term
credit to carry out the land leveling program on a total of
12,400 ha in six districts (Annex 2, Table 3);
(c) provide technical assistance through subcontracts by HIMAT and
medium- and short-term credit to permit farmers to increase livestock
production in Sibundoy and Lebrija, to change to a more remunerative
vegetable cropping pattern in Samaca, and to utilize better water
resources in R.U.T. by increasing the acreage under fruit and
vegetables. This would further assist in implementing the policy
of full recovery of operation and maintenance costs and of invest-
ment costs;
(d) replace obsolete equipment for operation and maintenance;
(e) raise water charges according to an agreed time table in each
district to reach full recovery of operation and maintenance costs
and at least partial recovery of the project's investment costs in
civil works;



- 15 -
(f)  train HIMAT staff and personnel from participating agencies
involved in extension activities (para 4.41); and
(g)  prepare phase II feasibility studies and designs.
3.04      The project concept was envisaged to consider a global approach,
including both rehabilitation of the districts and farm level activities
because:
(a)  in the rice districts, it would be difficult to expand irrigated
areas b:uefore reducing waste in water application; and
(b)  in the non-rice growing distriets, extension and credit are
particularly needed to improve levels of production and this
would permit improved recovery of water tariffs.
3.05      For the four rice growing districts, the strategy will consist of
increasíng the areas irrigated per year either by permitting two irrigated
crops on the same land or by extending the district. At the district level,
this will consist of increasing water availability without having to construct
time-consuming major works, such as new dams. Improvement in distribution
efficiency will be obtained through rehabilitation of the canal system inlet
structures and lining of some canal sections, replacement of wornout pumps and
maintenance equipment, and rehabilitation or new construction of farm turnouts.
At the field level, the project will reduce water use through íntroduction of
a land leveling program and the preparation of rice fields with puddling.
These techniques, well known in major rice producing countries, are relatively
new to Colombia. They were first introduced eight years ago by CIAT and have
been adapted by some progressive farmers. In 1980, FEDEARROZ initiated a
nation-wide campaign to promote leveling and puddling of paddy fields.
Introduction of these techniques can result in water savings on the order
of 40%. It will also permit rainwater to remain in the basins instead of
running off. Consequently, introduction of this technology can bring about
high water savirigs at relatively low cost. In addition, agricultural advantages
are reduction of production costs, more uniform crop maturity and slightly
higher yields. In the rice distriets, project strategy will consist of
providing extension and medium-term credit to promote the new technology. It
is assumed that not all lands will adopt the new technique. In the four rice
districts, 9,600 ha will be leveled and 2,700 new ha will be added, bringing
the total to 21,175 ha (Annex 2, Table 3). In the same four districts,
irrigated crops will increase from 24,100 ha to 37,800 ha per year.
3.06      For tlhe two non-rice growing districts, the strategy at district
level calls for improving water distribution systems through rehabilitation
of existing infrastructure in R.U.T. and construction of an underground pipe
distribution network in Samaca, which will use a natural available head for
the sprinkler systems presently operated by private pumps. At field level,
extension and credit availabílity will be strengthened to promote an increase
in production and fuller utilization of irrigation in the case of R.U.T. where
land leveling will take place on 1,000 ha. Their newly equipped area will
only increase by 600 ha, bringing the total to 11,700 ha, but irrigated crops
will increase from 12,300 ha to 20,100 ha per year.



- 16 -
3.07      In the two drainage areas, the strategy at district level aims at
completion of infrastructure, through construction of drains and roads.
This will increase the equipped areas from 6,300 ha to 14,300 ha. Whereas
Sibundoy is almost completely dedicated to daíry farming, Lebrija is a mixed
livestock-crop district where pastures and fallow will decrease from 6,400 ha
to 4,800 ha and annually cropped area will increase from 4,600 ha to 8,000 ha
(Implementation Document, Part 2). At the field level, extension and medium-
term credit will focus on livestock production and pasture improvement and,
in the case of Lebrija, also on land levelíng of 1,800 ha for existing rice
production, an activity that uses the locally abundant rainfall.
3.08      The project addresses the needs of 28,600 beneficiaries.  Of
these, 8,600 (30%) are benefíciaries of agrarian reform programs carried out
previously by INCORA. On average, the 70% remaining beneficiaries are
small farmer families with average holdings of less than 10 ha.
3.09      As a result of these activities, the project is expected to increase
the area with irrigation/drainage infrastructure by 31%, or from its present
35,868 ha to 47,155 ha. The area under irrigated crops will increase by
59% from its present 36,326 ha to 57,950 ha (Annex 2, Table 3). Incremental
annual production at full development would be Col$ 1,750 millíon (US$35 mil-
lion at the 1980 rate of exchange).
D. Construction Schedule and Status of Engineering
Construction Schedule
3.10      Construction under the project wíll be executed over a period of
five years which should be possible under the special financing arrangement
(Working Fund, para. 4.11) for this project. Replacement of equipment will
be completed over a three year period. The scattered nature of individual
small civil works in all of the distrícts does not necessitate a rigid order
of priorities unlike the replacement of the large pumps in El Juncal.
Status of Engineering
3.11      Draft tender documents for equipment have been completed.  For
civil works, final design for more than the first 12 months of construction
have been completed, equivalent to a total value of US$6.2 million, or a
reímbursable amount of US$4.3 million.
Consulting Servíces
3.12      Final design of civil works and supervision of construction can be
completed by Colombian firms. No more than one engineering consulting firm
will be hired per dístrict. For the land leveling component, internationally
recruited consultants will advise on the most appropríate technology and a
special training program will faviliatize CoXoubian mac'níte operators with



- 17 -
the operation of such equipment. For agriculture, local institutes and
agencíes--CIAT, FEDEARROZ--, and individuals have sufficíent expertise to give
instruction. The exception will be the introduction of the tropical cattle
improvement program in Lebrija, which would require foreign assistance.
3.13      To assist local project preparation capabilities and extension
agents, training programs will be arranged for HIMAT personnel in project
analysis and on-farm water management and for the agricultural agencies in
irrígated rice farming and tropical livestock management.
E. Project Cost
3.14      Total project cost including physical and price contingencies and
taking into accotnt the progressive devaluation of the Colombian peso with
respect to the US dollar, is estimated at US$86.3 million with a foreign
exchange component estimated at US$37 million and taxes of about US$5.2 mil-
lion. Cost estirmates for civil works and equipment are based on unit rates
obtained for similar ítems in Colombia. Costs per man-month for consulting
services vary from US$5,000 to US$8,000. Prices have been updated to October
1980 equivalent. Physical contingencies for civil works were taken at 15%
which is believed to be realistic in the context of a rehabilitation project
with a substantial portion of existing works. Price contingencies were split
between those for local and foreign components and a correction was also
applied for the Bank's projected devaluation of the Colombian peso. The
following table shows the Bank's projected annual values of international
and domestic inflation.
---------------- Year -----------------
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
International price contingency    12.5%   9.0%   8.5%   8%         8%      8%
Colombian price contingency          26%    24%    22%    20%    18%    16%
Overall physical contingencies amount to 4% of base cost and price contingen-
cies to 22% of base cost plus physical contingencies.
3.15      The schedule of expenditures is shown in Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5.
The cost estimate is summarized on the following table and shown in detail ín
Annex 2, Table 6. Investments in equipment and civil works for the individual
districts are sbown in Annex 2, Table 7.



- 18 -
% of US$
%   Baseline
Local  Foreígn  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  FE   Cost
----Col$ Million ----    ---- US$ Million
Civil works                 572     415      987    11.4       8.3      19.7  42      29
Equipment                    49      444     493      1.0      8.9       9.9  90      14
Development services
Engineering services       202       22     224      4.1      0.4      4.5  10        7
Agric. development         105       23     128      2.1      0.5       2.6  18       4
Foreign training            12        5      17      0.2      0.1      0.3  32      _
Subtotal              319       50      369     6.4      1.0       7.4          11
Preparation Phase II         34       16      50      0.7      0.3       1.0  32       2
On-Farm Development
Medium-term investment   452 b/  222        674      9.0      4.4     13.5  33       20
Increm. working capital  443 c/  190        633      8.9     3.8      13.7  30      18
Subtotal              895      412   1,307    17.9       8.2      26.2          38
Increm. O and M Cost        113       79     192      2.2      1.6      3.8  41       6
Baseline cost             1,982   1,416   3,398    39.6    28.3        68.0  42    100
Physical contingencies       85       61     146      1.7      1.2       2.9  42       4
Subtotal            2,067   1,477   3,544    41.4    29.5         70.9
Price contingencies a/  1,792   1,352   3,144         7.9      7.5      15.4
TOTAL COST          3,895   2,829   6,688    49.3    37.0         86.3  43    127
al   Including effect of projected peso devaluation.
b/   Includes Col$ 30.5 million of family labor.
cl   Includes Col$ 38.1 million of family labor.
F. Financing
3.16      Financing of the project would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions (Annex 2, Table 5):



- 19 -
Financing Table
(US$ Million)
Banking
Beneficiaries  System   Government       IBRD        Total
Civil Works                -               -         7.4   31%  16.8   69%  24.2  100%
4       Equipment                   -              -          1.1   10%  10.6   90%  11.7  100%
Engineering, Extension    -                -         2.9   31%   6.6   69%   9.5  100%
Foreign Training
Consultant               -              -           -           0.5  100%   0.5  100%
On-Farm Development
Medium-term investment   4.2              12.5        -            -          16.7
Incremental working
capital                10.3             4.9         -            -          15.2
Subtotal            14.5     46%   17.4  54%                            31.9  100%
Incremental O and M        -              -          4.9  100%    -            4.9  100%
Physical contingencies    -               -          1.1   31%   2.5   69%   3.6
Total               14.5      17%   17.4  20% 17.4   20%  37.0   43%  86.3  100%
3.17      The proposed Bank loan of US$37.0 million will finance the total
foreign exchange component which was been estimated at 43% of total project
costs. The incremental demands for medium-term investment and working capital
amount to US$31.'9 míllion, of which project beneficiaries will finance
US$14.5 million equivalent to 17% of total project costs.
3.18      The Bank loan will be made to HIMAT at the Bank lending rate
prevailing at the time of loan approval for a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace. The Government of Colombia guarantees the loan. Proceeds
of the Bank loan, as well as Government counterpart funds, with the exception
of the cost of equipment and foreign consultants and training abroad, will be
disbursed by HIMAT through a working fund (paras 4.11 and 4.12).
G. Procurement
3.19      Contracts for equipment and vehicles will be tendered on the
basis of internaLtional competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance with Bank
guidelines for procurement. These contracts are expected to total US$11.2
millíon. Contracts for motorcycles, topographic, office and laboratory
equípment, small mobile pumps, workshop equipment and small concrete mixers,
in total not exceedíng US$0.5 million, will be procured by taking the lowest



- 20 -
evaluated quotation from at least three suppliers or manufacturers. The many
contracts for civil works are small and scattered and are not expected to
generate international interest. They will be procured through local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) for which Colombian procedures are satisfactory to the
Bank. Their amount totals US$24.2 million. Of this amount, three power
connections, totalling about US$o.5 million, will be awarded to the local
power companies through negotiated contracts. No prior Bank approval of
bidding documents will be required for LCB contracts of less than US$200,000
equivalent. Local training and contracts for local consultants for engineeríng
and extension servíces above US$50,000 per contract will require prior Bank
approval. All contracts for foreign consultants and foreign training and
phase II preparation will require prior Bank approval.
H. Disbursements
3.20      Disbursement percentages for items to be financed by the Bank loan
are as follows:
Amount
Category              US$ Million          Disbursement Percentage
(a)  Civil works                    15.5              69% of total cost
(b)  Equipment and vehicles         10.6              100% of foreign expenditures
for imported goods and 90%
of expenditures for locally
procured goods.
(c)  Consulting services:                             100% of foreign expenditures
and 69% of local expenditures.
(i) Engineering design and
construction super-
vision                    3.4
(íi)  Preparation phase II      0.7
(iii)  Evaluation                0.1
(d)  Training                       0.8               69% of local cost and
100% of foreign cost
(e)  Extension services              1.6              69% of local expenditures.
(f)  Initial deposit in working
fund                           2.0
(g)  Unallocated                    2.3
Total                         37.0
3.21      Some US$25.9 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan, with the
exception of funds for foreign expenditures for equipment and vehicles and for
foreign consultants and training, will be reimbursed to the project through a



- 21 -
working fund (para 4.11). Disbursements for local training and consulting
contracts, and for civil works contracts up to a value of US$200,000 equivalent
each, will be made against statements of expenditures, which will be certified
by HIMAT. This iinplies independent prior auditing by the agents of the
Government's Comptroller General attached to HIMAT (para 4.12). Supporting
documentation for these expenditures will not be submitted to the Bank, but
will be retained by HIMAT for review duríng the course of Bank supervision.
All dísbursements for overseas consultants and training and for civil works
contracts above US$200,000 equivalent will be supported by standard documenta-
tion. Disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to be completed in six and
one half years which is believed to be realistic given that (a) no disburse-
ments will be made against contracts for equipment and civil works awarded
after December 31, 1985; (b) the working fund (para 4.11) should prevent
delays in implementation which might otherwise arise due to liquidity problems
in HIMAT; and (c) on-farm credit will not be financed from the Loan.
I. Retroactive Fínancing
3.22      Expenditures for civil works and engineering services to prepare
tender documents for the first year of construction, for a total value not
exceeding US$400,000 (1% of the proposed loan), will be eligible for retroactive
financing.
J.  Environnental Impact
3.23      Project: execution will result for the rice districts in reduced use
of agrochemicals and reduced runoff. For the drainage districts, temporarily
and permanently :inundated areas will be reduced. Specific water borne
diseases associated with irrigation such as Malaria will not increase in the
districts. No negative environmental impact is expected because of project
execution. Use of agrochemicals will be monitored.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      HIMAT will be the borrower and executing agency.  HIMAT's organiza-
tional structure is indicated on IBRD Chart 22496. Timely availability of
medium- and short-term credit for small-scale farmers will be the responsi-
bility of the FFAP and of participating banks which will rediscount funds
received through FFAP's existing línes of credit.



- 22 -
4.02      HIMAT's Sub-director of Land Improvement will be the senior
officer within HIMAT responsible for project implementation. He will
approve, in conformity with the Bank loan agreement, all administrative,
technical and financial decisions falling within his authority. For matters
beyond his competence such as legal aspects, contracts and accounting, the
Sub-director of Land Improvement will rely on the other sub-directorates
of HIMAT.  The Sub-director will be assisted by a unit which is permanently
responsible for day-to-day project implementation and supervision.  The
unit will consist of:
(a)  a full-time project coordinator appointed from HIMAT's senior staff;
(b) two full-time professionals: one engineer and one agronomist; and
(c) a secretary.
The project coordinator's main tasks will be to:
(a) coordinate project activities between the regional directors, the
sub-directorates of HIMAT, and other participating agencies;
(b) prepare for the Sub-director of Land Improvement the instructions
intended for the regional directors, the sub-directors of HIMAT
and other particípating agencies;
(c) supervise and monitor the project activities with the assístance
of specialists and organize regular field inspections;
(d) insure timely preparation of project progress reports;
(e) keep records of all documents relating to the project; and
(f) establish a program for district independence and carry out
such programs.
Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiations. Installation of
the unit for project implementation as well as approval by the Bank of
íts terms of reference and nomination of the project coordinator with
adequate qualifications is a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.03      In conformity with HIMAT's regulation No. 16 of 1977 fixing the
rules for operation and management of the irrigation and drainage districts,
the officers responsible for project implementation at regional level would
be HIMAT's regional directors. The regional directors will involve water
userstassociations to participate in major project decisions in liaison
with the Consultative Committees defined in art. 39 of regulation No. 16.
The objective of project organízation and management will be to hand over
district management to the water users associations once districts have
been rehabilitated and can be financially autonomous as is already the
cae- Mso Coello aná Uso SaXlana. tYt least twiee a year, EX2' s
regional directors will hold a meeting with their counterparts from
participating institutions to discuss achievements and shortfalls in
project execution and to set targets for further implementation. Problems
which cannot be resolved at the regional level whll be referred to the
project coordinator for resolving at headquarters level.



- 23 -
4.04      The main duties of HIMAT will be to:
(a) foster or strengthen water users associations and dístrict con-
sultative commíttees in each dístríct;
(b)  establish annual development prograns and determine annual targets,
in collaboration with the other participating institutions, relating
to the rehabilitation of districts, on-farm development, extension
work, allocation of credit and training courses;
(c)  through contracts with local consulting engineering firms, design
civil-engineering works and provide supervision of construction;
(d)  purchase new maintenance equipment and carry out through contractors
the rehabilitation of the canal, dike and road systems;
(e) improve the control of water distribution to users, particularly by
improving rotational distribution of water and completion and
calibration of farm turnouts;
(f)  calculate and index the irrígation and drainage charges to meet
full operation and maintenance costs and to recover, to the extent
possible, the investment costs of rehabilitation works;
(g) improve the percentage of collection of irrigation and drainage
charges;
(h)  establish technical specifications for on-farm development works
(land levelling and sprinkler systems), approve the on-farm plans
on which the credit applications are based, assíst in the planning
and executíon of the on-farm development works; and
(i) train field staff in designing on-farm development work and improved
field írrigation and drainage systems.
4.05      HIMAT's regional technical staff is adequate in quality and quantity.
It is used to design and supervise civil works. Although the project construc-
tíon program represents such a major increase of work that assistance from
consulting fírms would be required, HIMAT's regional technical staff ís
expected to play an important role in project implementation, in particular
for the land leveling program and supervision of construction.
B. Project Execution
4.06      Execution of land levelling will be done by local contractors.
Technical assistance for the on-farm irrigation infrastructure (land leveling
and sprinkler systems) including design, preparation of the investment plans
and supervision of the investments, will be provided directly by HIMAT staff
or by individual technicians or firms previously licensed by HIMAT. All



- 24 -
ínvestment plans will require, in order to be submitted to the fínancing
agencies (para 4.14), HIMAT's final technical approval; HIMAT will be respon-
sible for overall supervision of the investments.
4.07      Technical assistance as well as credit for on-farm ínvestments
(other than irrigation infrastructure) and for production purposes will
be provided free of charge under the project only to small-scale farmers and
to INCORA's beneficiaries; technical assistance requirements for medium and
large-scale producers are adequately covered under existíng FFAP procedures.
For project purposes, the definition of a small-scale farmer is the same
currently utilized by Caja (para 4.14). Technical assistance to the farmers,
including selection of sub-borrowers, preparation of farm investment plans
and supervision of the investments will be provided by FEDEARROZ, ICA, and
individuals approved by ICA working under specific technical assístance
subcontracts to be signed with HIMAT. In general, Colombian technicians have
a thorough knowledge of beneficiaries' needs and requirements and their
overall experience and expertise in crop and livestock production is satisfac-
tory. Nevertheless, SENA, CIAT, ICA and FEDEARROZ, under contract with HIMAT,
and HIMAT itself will prepare and carry out selective training programs for
their technicians to allow them to: (a) become more familiar with technological
packages for the different types of agriculture and livestock operations
practiced in the project areas; and (b) update farm management techniques and
thus be able to provide production-oriented assistance in líne wíth the
financial needs of beneficiaries. In addition, land levelling and pasture
management demonstration plots will be established and managed by the
participating institutions to facilitate the transfer of technology to
project beneficiaries as well as to technicians providing technical assistance
within the irrigation districts.
4.08      The existing extension staff is not considered adequate to cover
additional activities generated by the project. Assurances were obtained that
where subcontracts with existing agencies, such as FEDEARROZ, would not províde
suffícíent extension personnel, HIMAT will contract individual agronomists/
lívestock specialísts (Annex 2, Table 10) to reinforce the technical assistance
and supervision capabilities of mid-level technícians in the project areas.
Draft agreements, to be signed with technical assistance agencies were prepared
by HIMAT and submitted for Bank review.
C. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.09      A major problem with the execution of most Bank projects in Colombia
is the inadequacy of the budgetary system in relation to the Bank's opera-
tional procedures. For projects which are only partially financed with
Government resources, budgetary advances are not permitted for financing 100%
of the goods and services under the project, but only for the percentage to be
financed with local resources. On the other hand, normal Bank procedures



- 25 -
presume that, for projects which require Government counterpart funds, all
funds required by the project are advanced from the national budget, and
that subsequently the executing agency is reimbursed by the Bank in the
proportions specified in the Loan Agreement. Therefore, in an attempt to
advance the part of Bank financing, public institutions in Colombia have to
allocate funds to Bank projects that were intended for other activities of the
institution. In most cases, the end result of this compromise--to effectively
carry out their normal activities and the Bank's projects--have been disappoint-
ing and the incompatibility of the two systems has led to delays in implementa-
tion, higher costs and often failure to attain physical targets of the project.
The solution to this problem--interim budgetary allocations to finance 100% of
the investments envisaged in Bank financed projects--cannot be attained without
changes in Colombia's budgetary policies and procedures.
4.10      Government budgetary allocations represent about 92% (Col$ 1,400
million) of HIMAT's income for 1981, the balance, Col$ 187 million, is made up
from HIMAT's own resources (water charges). This budget, however, is fully
commítted to ongoíng actívities of HIMAT, with the exception of an estimated
Col$ 127 million of counterpart funds already allocated to the proposed
project for fiscal 1981, equivalent to US$2.1 million at the projected end-of-
1981 exchange rate. To carry out US$4.9 million of project activities, except
LCB procurement, during the first year of the project (July-December 1981)
(Annex 2, Table 5), HIMAT's 1981 project budget needs to be increased by
Col$ 165 million (US$2.8 million). Given the above and the fact that other
activities of HIIMAT cannot be delayed to provide interim resources to finance
100% of the investments under the project until the Bank reimburses its share
of the total, project implementation would be endangered unless special
arrangements are made to assure HIMAT's liquidity.
4.11      To ensure HIMAT's liquidity during project implementation, a work-
ing fund (Fund) will be established as a separate account of HIMAT in a
Colombian commercial bank designated by the Treasury. The Fund will be
utilized exclusively to finance all Bank financed Project expenditures, except
for the foreign exchange cost of the equipment procured through ICB and the
foreign cost of consultants and traíning. Therefore, the inflow of the Fund
will consist only of counterpart resources and proceeds of the Bank loan.
The Fund will start up with an initíal amount equivalent to US$3 million,
estimated to cover financing needs (of eligible expenditures) during any
six-month period of the first two years of implementation. HIMAT's initial
contribution to the Fund will be US$1.0 million equivalent and the Bank's,
US$2.0 million equivalent. The Bank contribution to the Fund and subsequent
replenishment of the Fund will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  the first Bank disbursement, an advance contribution to the
project of US$2.0 million equivalent, will be made after loan
effectiveness and upon receipt of adequate documentation indi-
cating (i) establishment of the Fund account; (ii) a payment
order for initial contribution, US$1.0 million equivalent, for
deposit in the Fund account within 30 days of the Bank disburse-
ment; and (iii) an appropriate withdrawal application;



- 26 -
(b)  subsequent Bank disbursements to the Fund will be made according to
the 69% dísbursement (para 3.10) against certified statements of
expenditures and/or standard documentation. The counterpart funds,
31% of total disbursements into the Fund, will be transferred by
the Government to HIMAT and deposited in the Fund within 60 days of
the Bank's disbursements;
(c)  Government contributions to the Fund will be 31% of the
expenditures for civil works, local costs of consulting
services and training; and
(d)  Recovery of the fund will be initiated when the undisbursed
amount of the categories for civil works, consulting services
and training has reached $4.0 million equivalent.
4.12      HIMAT's request for reimbursements from the Government need to
take into account the average lag time (25 days) between the agency's request
and actual transfer of funds. As required by law, all project expenditures to
be paid from the Fund (or from the project for that matter) are subject to
ex-ante as well as ex-post control and approval of the Comptroller General's
personnel within HIMAT (para 4.23). In addition, each month the borrower will
deliver to the Bank's office in Bogota, a certified statement of deposits and
withdrawals from the Fund. HIMAT will, until completion of the project, maintain
a special separate account which would identify all inflows and outflows of the
Fund. The establishment of such an account and the authorization by the
Government to release US$1.0 million equivalent within 30 days for deposit in
the account is a condition of disbursement of the Bank's US$2.0 million
equivalent contribution to the Fund. The Government, the Bank, and HIMAT
will review semi-annually the operation and size of the Fund and agree on any
necessary changes. Procedures, terms and conditions of the operation of the
Fund, includíng control of expenditures and specific reporting requirements,
were agreed upon negotiations.
D. Agricultural Credit
4.13      Credit for on-farm development and investments and for short-term
incremental working capital will be provided through the national banking
system and totally financed with local resources. The commercial farm sector
generally has little difficulty obtaining its needs through these channels.
However, since credit procedures at times limit access by small-scale farmers
and INCORA's beneficiaries to the regular credit channels, FFAP will redis-
count funds on-lent by Caja Agraria or by other participating banks to small-
scale farmers in the project districts on condition that HIMAT provides
qualified technical assistance for subloan applications.



- 27 -
4.14       Credit will be channeled to both private small-scale farmers and to
INCORA's beneficiaries (agrarian reform beneficiaries), operating either as
individual farmers or as members of some form of group farming operation
("empresas comunitarias" or cooperatives). For project purposes, the definition
of a small-scale farmer is the same currently utilized by Caja for lending
under the Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1352-CO), that is, a
farmer with a grcss value of assets, including land, of less than Col$ 1.5
million (US$30,000) and who derives at least 70% of his income from farmíng.
As with Caja's current procedures, land mortgages will not be required for
lending to small--scale farmers nor INCORA's guarantees for lending to agrarian
reform beneficiaries.
4Á15       Subloar,s to small-scale farmers benefitting from the project made
on the basis of technically and financially sound farm investment plans will
finance up to 80% of the total medium- and long-term requirements of the
investment plan. Credit applicants will be assisted in the preparation of
their investment plan by existing field technicians (para 1.13) and those
subcontracted by HIMAT (para 4.07). In line with Government policy, large-
seale farmers wi]Ll have to pay a fee for technical assistance, while technical
assistance for small-scale farmers will be provided free of charge. The
evaluation of creditworthiness of applicants and the financial analysis of the
investments will be carried out by banks, which will also be responsible
for subloan disbursements and collections, and bear the credit risk. Disburse-
ments will be made on the progress of investments, directly to sub-borrowers
and to suppliers providing inputs or services (e.g. land leveling) to benefi-
ciaries. As in the ongoing Bank loans for Integrated Rural Development
(Loan 1352-CO) and the Third Agricultural Credit (Loan 1737-CO), short-term
incremental credit, required to finance seasonal costs related to the invest-
ment plans will be provided under the project through financing up to 80% of
the incremental working capital required by farmers participating in the
project. Beneficiaries' contribution to investments may be financed in the
form of family labor and/or cash.
4.16       Subloan repayment terms would reflect the capacity of the sub-
borrowers to repay, as estimated in the cash-flow projections of the invest-
ment plans. Subloans for medium-term investments, including land leveling,
sprinkler equipmnent and machinery, are for a maximum period of seven years,
including a grace period of up to three years. Subloans for livestock
development are for a maximum period of 12 years, including a grace period
of up to four years. Short-term seasonal credit is repaid within one year
of subloan disbursement. Interest on the outstanding balances is payable
at the end of each period, at the going rate which is presently 21% per annum;
additionally, sub-borrowers pay, in advance, a premium of 1% per annum for
life insurance. 1/ It is envisaged that, over the seven-year disbursement
period of the project, the proposed lending rate will be positive. Domestic
inflation in Colombia decreased from 34.8% per annum in 1977 to 16.7% per
annum in 1978, increasing to 24.7% in 1979. Inflation over a six-year period
is projected at annual rates averaging about 19%. The above lending rate
would be consistent with FFAP and generally in line with the lending rates
currently utilized for similar purposes and beneficiaries under Loan 1352-CO
and by Caja's ordinary resources lending.
1/   Outstanding debt is covered by an insurance fund in case of death or
incapacity of a borrower.



- 28 -
4.17      Assurances were obtained that Government, as Guarantor, shall
cause FFAP to carry out the project's credit component, and provide
promptly the funds needed, through the partícipating banks.
E. Accounts and Auditing
4.18      The accounting unit of HIMAT has greatly improved the presentatíon
of financial statements over the last few years. This unit now produces
supplementary data and analyses on various aspects of HIMAT's activities and
it is computerizing the accounting system.  HIMAT's condensed income statement
and condensed balance sheet are shown in Annex 2, Tables 13 and 14.
4.19      In general, HIMAT has an adequate accounting system.  However,
there are sorme deficiencies, which will be corrected duríng project
execution, such as:
(a) HIMAT's comptroller's function is not centralized but dispersed
among HRIMAT's various organizational units;
(b)  the accounting unit and the budget unit use different codes;
(c)  the application of "generally accepted accounting principles"
is not adequate, particularly with regard to the rule of carry-
ing assets at either the historical cost or the market value,
whichever is lower, in order to avoid overestimation of assets
and equity (Implementation Document, Part 9);
(d)  using a cash basis accounting system instead of accrual
accounting for water sales and collection of arrears and
interest on water users' indebtedness; and
(e)  as observed by the Comptroller General in auditing HIMAT
1979 849-C0 and 1163-C0 project accounts, HIMAT overestimated
its investments in both projects because such investments are
recorded also as INCORA's assets.
4.20      As an autonomous public entity, HIMAT is required to maintain the
accounting procedures prescribed by the Comptroller General where the main
emphasis is placed on authorízation to spend, and on procedures and observance
of budget appropriation limits. In addition, HIMAT's cash accounting system
causes difficulties in analyzing HIMAT's operational results.  In summary,
the accounting system registers and reports according to official standards,
but the agency should increase the flexibility recently introduced in
reporting and in the managerial accounting approach to produce information
for decision making.



- 29 -
4.21      During negotiations, it was agreed that the accounting system
will include in its annual presentation of the financial statements:
(a)  analysis of district water sales, reporting on water supplied,
billings, and collections; users' arrears; and users' payments of
interest on indebtedness;
(b)  analysis of district cost recovery from water sales;
(c)  budget realization, reporting on the amount requested by HIMAT,
amount approved by Congress, and amount actually transferred
before and after the end of the fiscal year;
(d)  write-offs of arrears of water users' which are irrecoverable;
and
(e)  adjustment of the provision for doubtful debts.
Auditing
4.22      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that HIMAT will
maintain separate project accounts, in accordance with sound accounting
principles consistently applied. Records and documentation relating to all
financial transactions under the project will be kept by HIMAT and be made
available for inspection by the Bank during the course of supervision missions.
The project accounts and related financial statements will be audited annually
in accordance with generally accepted audíting standards by the Comptroller
General, who aud-its all the state entities in Colombia except state-owned
banks. Its "Division de Auditoria Financiera International y Proyectos de
Desarrollo" is in charge of auditing the proposed project accounts, as it
audits all projects partially financed by external agencies.
4.23      HIMAT will submit to the Comptroller General its project accounts
and all information not later than March 15 each year. The external auditor
wíll submit to the Bank the audíted project accounts of the previous year
not later than Ap?ril 30. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations.
4.24      Assurances were also obtained that HIMAT will provide the Bank
once a year with the standard financial information, detailed on pages 191
and 192 of the Implementation Document.
4.25      Three forms showing information on district water sales, district
cost recovery, and HIMAT's national budget realization (budget requested,
approved, and amount transferred before the fiscal year's end and after) will
be attached to these audit requirements. These forms will be considered as
an integral part: of the information to the project accounts and will be
presented and audited annually. The three forms are presented in part 9 of
the Implementation Document as Appendices 2, 3 and 4. Assurances on this
point were obtained during negotiations.



- 30 -
F.  Operation, Maintenance and Water Charges
4.26      Present HIMAT field staff for operation and maintenance (O and M)
are well qualified, particularly their machine operators, who are as skilled
as can be desired. With the exception of the Samaca district, there is no
need to increase O and M staff. In HIMAT's opinion, shortfalls in operation
and maintenance occur only because of the lack of operational O and M equipment.
However, the following two weaknesses are to be resolved through the project:
(a) lack of expertise in on-farm water distributíon techniques, which
would be addressed through a training program; and
(b) too few calibrated farm turnouts. Since volumetric water
charges will have to be increased substantially, completion of
the number of farm turnouts and rehabilitation and recalibration
of existing ones are foreseen under the project.
4.27      Four districts, El Juncal, San Alfonso, Samaca and Sibundoy, because
of their small sizes, suffer from diseconomies of scale. For instance, a
motorgrader for road maintenance in any one of these districts, would never
require 1,400 hrs per year to perform its work adequately. The project wíll
partially resolve this problem through sharing equipment between El Juncal and
San Alfonso, but for other districts such arrangements are impossible. Rental
of heavy equipment in rural areas is not common in Colombia. The situations
in El Juncal and Sibundoy are expected to improve through an increase in
the size of their areas provided with irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
4.28      Given the natural condítions in Sibundoy, R.U.T., San Alfonso, El
Juncal and Zulia, annual sediment removal will continue to place a heavy
burden on maintenance costs. The project will partially remedy this situation
through the construction of improved sediment traps.
Water Charges
4.29      In the irrigation districts, water charges consist of a fixed tariff
and a volumetric tariff, which have been increased regularly since RIMAT took
over district management from INCORA. For each district water charges are
different. For the districts of Sibundoy and Lebrija for which the drainage
systems were never completed, only a per hectare tariff can be levied. No
such tariff was ever established for Sibundoy for the political reason that
a large percentage of its INCORA population is indigenous. For Lebrija the
collection ratio of the drainage tariff is particularly low (Annex 2, Table 15)
because farmers refuse to pay for the inadequate services provided.
4.30      Water charges are centrally computerized and are collected twice
a year, after each harvest. No practical guides are established on how the
charges are to be computed or indexed. The procedure for the annual revision
of charges is initiated in the districts. New tariffs are discussed in
lSovember wíth the water users' assnciato'ns an¿L are app-ro-e1 'by ViXY1NY heaá-
quarters. The collected charges are sent to Bogota. As the districts
require funds and in accordance with the annual distriet budget, headquarters



- 31 -
disburses the funds for O and M. There is little incentive for the dístricts
to cover their fuil cost of O and M as they are fully aware that shortfalls
will be covered by headquarters and any surplus will remain in the central
account and be absorbed in HIMAT's natíonal budget.
4.31       The rate of interest on arrears of water users is 2% per month and
is fixed under article 87 of regulation 16 of 1977 (para 4.03).
Overhead
4.32      Annex 2, Table 15 shows the direct cost of operation and maintenance
as well as collections for 1979. In HIMAT's accounting system there appears
an item "Regional Coordination," which consists mostly of personnel costs
incurred at the l.evel of the regional office. Since these offices are also
involved with the operation of the national hydrological and meteorological
network, it is diffícult to assess the part that is pure overhead for the
irrigation districts. In all computations for this appraisal, it was assumed
that 10% of the cost of district operation and maintenance would be a reasonable
figure for overhead for irrigation at the regional level.
Collection Ratio
4.33       For the four irrigation districts Rio Recio, San Alfonso, Zulia and
R.U.T., the average recovery of O and M costs computed according to HIMAT
is 108%. Although El Juncal has also a high collection ratio of 95% (collec-
tions over billings), its extremely high operatíng costs because of high lift
pumping result in a cost recovery of only 57% of O and M. The cost figures
are unduly low for these "well performing" districts because:
(a) depreciation of equipment is not included in the water charges
nor in the cost of operation and maintenance;
(b) the very high proportion of equipment which is permanently
broken results in low operating costs for this equipment; and
(c) routiIe maintenance, in many cases, has been delayed (providing
one of the reasons for the present project).
The figures for present maintenance should therefore be read as current
cash expenditures for O and M for 1979 and not as full maintenance costs.
4.34       Agreemnent was reached during negotiations that, within 60 days
after receipt by the Bank of the past year's collection ratios, starting
April 30, 1982, and after exchanging views wíth the Bank, HIMAT would have
to provide satisfactory explanations and a plan of action to the Bank, if
the collection ratio in a particular distríet is less than 80%. If such
explanation or plan of action is unsatisfactory, the deficient distríct
would no longer have access to utilization of the Fund for its civil works
construction (para 4.11).



- 32 -
4.35      Legally, the assets of some of the eight districts still belong
to INCORA. Colomibian "valorizacion" law specifies that the full cost of the
original investment is to be recovered by INCORA (Acuerdos 10 of 1968 and
13 of 1975). Of the Col$ 646 million (valued at the time of construction) used
in the building of the six schemes where collection of this tax has begun,
only Col$ 10 million worth of current pesos have been collected - a negligible
amount. The law established a large number of formulae for calculating
payments and an appeal system permitting many legal delays. In addition, no
provision was made to allow for inflatíon indexation, so that over time the
amounts to be recovered have become insigníficant. Government has decided to
collect the still outstandíng valorizacion tax. The small value of investment
in rehabilitation civil works in Rio Recio and R.U.T. (Annex 2, Table 7) would
make their full recovery easily possible, even when indexed for inflation.
Districts with greater investments--because many new hectares would be equipped--
would require more lenient conditions for investment cost recovery. In some,
the tariffs for full O and M recovery would have to be inereased substantially:
this should take priority over investment cost recovery, in order to safeguard
public investments.
4.36      On the basis of íts estimates of operation and maintenance costs in
1980 pesos worked out for each district at full development ín Parts 1-8 of
the Implementation Document, the Bank used as a working hypothesis the tariff
structures indicated in the bottom three lines of Annex 2, Table 14. These
tariffs were used in the farm models. The different percentage distributions
of O and M cost recovery between fixed and volumetric rates are based on the
relative scarcity of water in each district. The real tariffs will be based
on actual district expenditures and budgets with a suitable allocation for
equipment depreciation, as suggested in Part 9, Appendix 4 of the Implementation
Document.
4.37      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that HIMAT will submit
for Bank approval by September 30, 1981, for each district a system of taríffs
with a time implementation program, to collect full operation and maintenance
costs and, subject to farmer's ability to pay and incentives to produce, as
much of project investment as possible. The new tariff structure will be put
in effect by January 1, 1982. The basis for calculation of the cost recovery
program was agreed upon during negotiations and includes a maximum annual
rent recovery index for each district of 0.5 and a 22% interest rate on
investment with a repayment period of 10 years for equipment and generally of
15 years for civil works. The agreed order of priority will be to recover fully
the annual variable costs of operation and maintenance and then, with varying
grace períods and recovery percentages, first the fixed cost of equipment
amortization and finally of civil works. Factors to be taken into account in
determining grace periods and recovery percentages will include:
(a) differences in present cost recovery performance in the various
districts;
(b) high debt services for on-farm development during the early project
years, based on the cash-ft<e'v     tic~ txaw  Lt' t;e £arxm mooeis, andL



- 33 -
(c) the fact: that farmers would be inclined to pay higher water
charges only after they see that their cash income improves as a
result of the project.
It is expected that fíve districts will reach full cost recovery, but that
El Juncal, San Alfonso and Lebrija will need a Government subsidy.
4.38       Sibundoy presents a special case, since no charges have ever been
collected. As the only commercial product in this district is milk, and
since a first milk collecting center was expected to become operational in
January 1981, the per hectare tariff could be changed to a levy per liter of
milk. Such a solution is preferred since (a) the cooperative milk factory
installing the milk collecting center has in principle agreed to such an
approach, and (b) the number of farmers expected to bring their milk to the
center is expected to be much larger than the number of farmers living
in the area to be rehabilitated. Outside farmers' contribution to this milk
levy would be justified on the ground that project execution would reduce
overgrazing on their land during the present periods of inundation in the area
to be rehabilitalted.
4.39      To ensiure that in the future equipment is promptly replaced when
worn out, HIMAT provided assurances that it will make timely budgetary
allocations for the repair and replacement of operation and maintenance
equipment in each district.
G. Training
4.40       The project will provide for the following training programs
detailed in Annex 2, Table 10:
(a) Local training (paid through the Fund) (US$381,000 equívalent);
(i)  for farmers:  53 courses given by FEDEARROZ, ICA, SENA
and CIAT;
(íi)  for low level technicians from HIMAT, ICA and FEDEARROZ:
39 courses, usually of five days each; and
(iii)   for professionals and intermediate technicians from
HIMAT, INCORA and ICA: 18 courses, usually of five days.
(b)  Training in Colombia by foreign consultants (US$145,000 equivalent).
For professional HIMAT personnel: 6 courses of two weeks on
technical subjects; and
(c)  Foreign training (US$205,000 equivalent).  For professíonal
economists and engineers from HIMAT and livestock specialists
from ICA: 10 courses of 4 to 6 weeks duration.



- 34 -
R.  Monitoring and Reporting
4.41      Under the project, HIMAT will establish a monitoring and evaluation
unit in Bogota, inter alia to (a) collect and analyze for each project district
data with which to assess the socio-economic impact of the project. These
will include information on the evolution of land tenure, cropping patterns,
productíon, yields, prices, input use and costs and administrative expenses;
(b) undertake studies of the evolution of a variety of selected farms to
assess project impact at the farm level; and (c) undertake studies related to
the periodic review and/or adjustment of water charges.  This unit will be
established by reallocating duties of existing staff. To assist development
of an improved information gathering and data processing system, funds have
been included in the project for seven man-months of consultants' time.
Within six months following final disbursement by the Bank, the monitoring and
evaluatíon unit will prepare a Completion Report for the project for submis-
sion to the Bank.
4.42      During project ímplementation HIMAT will submit in one volume
semiannual reports on progress of works and procurement per djstrict and on
the performance of particípating institutions, including agricultural credit
operations. Assurances on these points would be obtained at negotiations.
4.43.     In the end of June semí-annual progress report, HIMAT will include,
per district, a chapter on monitoring of agricultural production as a result
of project activities.
V. PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Technical Coefficients
5.01      The projected yield levels in the districts where irrigated rice
is grown are based on yields already obtaíned by progressive farmers and
"empresas comunitarias" which are fully mechanized and use high yielding
seeds. In general, present paddy yields in the districts are above the
national average, and, therefore, only a small increase per hectare was
assumed. As a whole, it is expected that rice production is going to increase
with the project because of:
(a) an increase in the area cropped with rice made possible through
a reduction in per hectare water consumption and canal rehabilita-
tion; and
(b) a reduction in the infestation with red rice.
In addition, financial and economic benefits will be realized through a
partial change from present production methods to basin írrigation, resulting
in a decrease in cost of production (efficient leve-iing and land preparation
of paddy fields, cultivating fields under puddling, reduced cost of seed).



- 35 -
5.02       Other crops cultivated in these districts include sorghum and
cotton. Yield projections at full development of these crops are well
within the range of yields being achieved by the more progressive farmers
usíng agricultural machinery, improved seeds and technical assistance.
5.03       In the clistricts where rice is not grown, such as R.U.T. and
Samaca, yields are expected to increase as a result of a gradual adoption
of new farm practices, mainly the use of irrigation water in R.U.T. and a
changeover to vegetable growing in Samaca, once irrigation water becomes
available. Increases in milk and beef production in Sibundoy and Lebrija
are expected as a result of increases in cultívated area and improved ínfra-
structure and animal husbandry and crossbreeding. Details are given in the
Implementation Document, Parts 1-8. Annex 2, Table 16 summarizes present
yields and those assumed at full development.
5.04       In the irrígation districts, all farm activities are mechanized
(land preparation, rice sowing by airplane, fertilizers and agricultural
chemicals application, and harvesting).  These services are currently hired
and enough machirtery is available in the area of the districts.
5.05       Presently, almost all the labor in the irrigated distriets is hired.
Labor requirement.s would vary with development but necessities would be met
from within the district and surrounding areas.
B.  Illustrative Investment Models
5.06       The proposed project will provide funds for on-farm investments
and agricultural production under irrigated conditions. About 4,800 farms
would participate, of which 1,443 (30%) are INCORA beneficiaries with an
average of 12.1 ha per landholding. The farm development program in the
districts where rice is grown will be carried out in the context of a modern
pattern of farming. Farming in the most important rice district (Rio Recio)
is, to a large extent, a commercial operation with access to credit and
marketing channels. Farmers in the other four rice districts are INCORA
beneficiaries, and small- and medium-scale independent farmers. The on-farm
development program in these districts will be implemented gradually to allow
farmers to gain experience and confidence and to ensure farmer acceptance and
participation. The on-farm development in Samaca and R.U.T. districts will
also be promoted gradually, since the majority of landowners are small-scale
farmers and participants would adopt more remunerative cropping patterns that
would include the traditional food crops but would give emphasis to high value
products such as vegetables.



- 36 -
5.07      In Samaca, based on the available experience by farmers in the
valley, the present shortage of water puts heavy emphasis on semi-irrigated
pastures, which will be reoriented towards a rotation, including barley for
a nearby brewery, peas, potatoes and vegetables. In R.U.T. where small-scale
farmers are less inclined to adapt to change, the present emphasis on rainfed
crops will be changed to increase irrigation use on soybeans, sorghum,
cotton, and vegetables. The proposed cropping patterns and cropping intensity
for each model of each district are found in Parts 1-8 of the Implementation
Document. These models assess the technical and financial feasibility of
medium-term investments and compare the with and without project situations.
In all cases, the price and cost assumptions and the technical coefficients
were estimated on the basis of available information (HIMAT and FAO/Bank
CP feasibility studies) and through observations made during appraisal in
October 1980. These data were given sufficient conservative margins. The
following table compares the sizes of the selected farm models with the farm
sizes in the districts.
Average Hectares Owned
INCORA     Private      Dístrict      Models
Sibundoy                   6.2         7.9           7.5       10 and 10
Lebrija                   43.8        60.3          46.2       20 and 20
Rio Recio                  4.6        38.2          29.5          30
San Alfonso                5.1         7.7           6.5           7
El Juncal                   9.1       28.2           10.9         20
Zulia                       9.4       25.9          11.2          10
R.U.T.                     4.9         8.3           8.0        2 and 10
Samaca                      -          2.3           2.3           4
C. Production
5.08      By year 11, incremental annual production from the project is
estimated to be as follows:



- 37 -
National and Project Production
National      Incremental Production         Value of
Production    At full    As % of 1979    Incremental
1979      Development    National         Production
('000 t)         t/yr       Production   (Col$ Million)   %  cl
Rice            1,932         83,500          4.3              804          46
Milk            1,986         28,600          1.4              286           16
Vegetables      1,353         21,600          1.5              187           11
Soybean           137         10,900          7.8              190          11
Sorghum           473          7,100          1.5               66           4
Potatoes        2,066          4,900          0.2               52            3
Beef             n.a. al       2,200           -                78           4
Peas             r.a. al       1,500           -                38            2
Cotton            281          1,100          0.4               34           2
Grapes          rn.a. a/       1,000           -                10         n.s. b/
Maize             870             900         0.1               14         n.s. b/
Barley            122             900         0.7               10         n.s. bI
Whleat             38             800         2.1               13         n.s. b
Beans              73            (300)       (0.4)             (13)        n.s. bI
Other crops        -          (1,000)          -               (18)        n.s. bI
Total         -         163,700          -              1,750         100
a/   n.a. = not available.
b/   n.s. = not significant.
c/   percent of incremental value of production.
5.09      Assuming farmgate prices as of late 1980 (Annex 2, Table 17),
the value of incremental annual output from the project at full development
would be about Col$ 1,750 million (US$35.0 million in 1980 pesos). Rice will
be the most important commodity, accounting for about 46% of the incremental
value of production, followed by milk (16%).
D. Markets, Prices and Marketing
5.10      Total ineremental production generated by the project at full
development (about 1992) would be relatively small compared with current
national production (para 5.08) and it is not expected that output from
the project would adversely affect prices. However, project output would
contribute to meeting the increase in aggregate demand for food in Colombia
whích ís estimated to rise by about 3.8% per annum, thus assisting in
checking the rise of consumer prices. Moreover, several commodities
produced by the project would contribute to foreign exchange earnings or
savings.



- 38 -
5.11      Incremental production of beef, rice and cotton would lead to
increases in exports, while production of oilseeds (soybeans, cottonseed)
sorghum, maize, beans and milk would substitute for imports. Production of
vegetables would increase local food supplies near project areas. Marketing
outlets for grains and cotton are well developed in all project areas, and
IDEMA (para 1.11) maintains purchasing agencies in grain-producing zones.
A program to establish collectíon and storage centers in producing areas
for perishable commodities like vegetables is under way and it is expected
that price fluctuations experienced by vegetable producers would in due course
be reduced. Project areas producing milk are served by processing plants
which are keen to obtain increased supplies of fresh milk to replace reconsti-
tuted products.
5.12      As a result of growing demand, prices for project commodities
supplied to the domestic market are expected to be favorable. Regarding
rice, Colombia is emerging as an efficient exporter to Latin American coun-
tries, where by 1990 a deficit in the supply of rice of about 4.0 million
tons per annum is expected. Accordingly, few problems are foreseen with the
disposal, on favorable terms, of incremental project rice output (83,500
tons). In the case of beef, world imports are expected to grow at 4.5%
annually, and prices are expected to decline cyclically from a projected 1980
value of US$1,860/t to US$1,510/t in 1985. Trends in world imports of cotton
fiber are difficult to discern; however, prices are expected to increase from
US$1,810/t in 1980 to US$2,390/t in 1985. Annex 2, Table 17 indicates prices
used in the economic and financíal analysis.
E. Farm Income
5.13      Based on farm models for representative enterprises in each district,
the average pre-tax income of project beneficiaries is estimated at US$530 per
capita, and increasing to US$1,330 per capita at full development. The ínitial
range is from about US$67 per capita (in Sibundoy) to about US$1,000 per capita
(in Rio Recio) and at full development would range from US$700 per capita (in
R.U.T.) to about US$2,700 (in Rio Recio). These income levels compare with the
1980 CCL for Colombia estimated at US$329 per capita and average per capita in-
come of US$1,010. The financial rates of return on all incremental resources
invested at the farm level exceed 30% 1/ in all districts, and the private re-
turns on equity would be much higher. This factor, coupled with the excellent
opportunity to improve family income in each district, implies that there should
be ample incentive for farmers to adopt changes to be introduced under the project.
In computing the cash flows from which the above income levels were derived, it
has been assumed that water charges sufficiently high to recover full costs of
operation and maintenance would be gradually introduced in all districts
during the project implementation period. Income levels and financial rates
of return derived from the farm models are summarized below.
1/   Financial opportunity cost of capital at private banks taken to be 30%.



- 39 -
Income Levels and Financial Rates of Return
Available Pre-Tax         Financial Rate
Income                  of Return
US$ Per Capita          on All Financial
Farm Model      Without        With             Resources
District               Size         Project      Project a/             %
San Alfonso         7 ha             500          1,000                44
El Juncal          20 ha             500          1,000                33
Rio Recio          30 ha             970          2,700                59
Zulia              10 ha             480          1,240                53
R.U.T.        2 ha (Model 1)         240            700               100+
10 ha (Model 2)         620          1,280              100+
Samaca              4 ha             270            770                60
Lebrija      20 ha (Model 1)         980          1,600                82
20 ha (Model 2)         225          1,120                31
Sibundoy    10 ha (Model 1)          403            833                32
10 ha (Model 2)          67          1,750               35
a/   At full development.
F. Project Rent and Cost Recovery
5.14      Rent recovery indices have heen computed for the farm models for
each district. Individual analyses are included in the Implementation Document,
Parts 1-8, and sumnmarized in Annex 2, Table 18. The computations have been
based on cash flow estimates at full development for the farm enterprises and
they assumed that tariffs recovering full O and M costs in each district,in-
cluding straight line depreciation of equipment. The indices taken together
with cash flows for the farm models show that the projected water tariffs
would recover only a portion of on-farm rent in all districts, and such tariffs
should therefore be sustainable in all cases,except El Juncal. However, during
negotiations Government indícated that no straight line depreciation of equip-
ment would be allowed, since it considers that HIMAT has to pay back the Bank
loan with minimal subsidy to the beneficiaries. This implies the inclusion
for equipment of an interest rate of 22% over 10 years (in Col$). Because
also a percentage of investment in civil works will be recovered, the actual
rent recovery índices are expected to be substantially higher than those
computed by the Bank which excluded allowance for income tax. (Income tax
collection from small-scale farmers in Colombia is a rather theoretical
concept). To provide HIMAT with a guideline of the approximate limit of
tolerance to water tariffs ("farmer's ability to pay and incentive to
produce"), a rent recovery índex of 0.5 was suggested. Hence the necessity
for, and HIMAT's acceptance of, an evaluation consultant who would assist
in setting up a system to investigate annually a representative sample of
farmers to provide this data (paras 4.37 and 4.41).
5.15      On-farm development costs, including those for land leveling
will be fully recovered through the credit system.  At the district level,



- 40 -
costs for civil works investments under the project and for full O and M costs
will be recovered to varying degrees as shown by the cost recovery indices
which have been computed for each district and are summarized in Annex 2,
Table 18. Using a discount rate equal to the economic opportunity cost of
capital in Colombia of 11% over a 20-year period, cost recovery indices for
each district have been computed in two ways: (a) by including only the direct
recoveries through water charges; and (b) by includíng as well (indirect)
recoveries of projected income taxes, based on average tax rates derived from
the farm models and applied to the value of distríct production. This analysis
shows that over 50% of incremental investments and O and M costs would be re-
covered by water/draínage charges alone in five out of eight districts, the
three remaining districts each having farm models which show pre-development per
capita farm incomes below the critical consumption level for Colombia. Moreover,
when combined direct and indirect taxes are considered, publíc investment and O
and M costs in all districts are fully recovered. If, as a matter of policy,
Government decides to impose an additional levy to recover investment in civil
works in the distrícts, the cost recovery indices would, of course, increase.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Effects
6.01      The project will improve HIMAT's operatíons at the district level,
as well as strengthen HIMAT's financial condition and capabilities to design
and implement future irrigation projects. By requíring the implementation of
water charges which more accurately reflect costs of deliveríng irrigation and
drainage services, the project will improve the efficiency of water use and
move individual districts toward financial self-sufficiency, thereby implemen-
ting Government's policy to reduce subsidies throughout the economy. In terms
of production, at full development, the area irrigated annually within the
eight project districts is estimated to increase by about 22,000 ha as a
result of improved efficiency of water use and completion of infrastructure,
givíng rise to annual increments in production valued by year 11 at 1,750
million Col$ per year. Project beneficiaries, who total about 4,800 families
(29,000 persons), differ substantially by type and size of farm between
various districts (Annex 2, Table 2). Based on typical farm models, pre-
project per capita incomes range from about US$67 to US$980, compared with
the 1977 poverty income level of US$267 per capita for Colombia.
6.02      Resulting from the project, the equivalent of about 5,000 additional
jobs would be created, of which about 1,000 are estimated to be filled by
family labor, thereby substantially reducing existing underemployment in
the project areas.



- 41 -
B. Economic Analysis and Sensitivity
6.03      The econiomic rate of return in the entire project (consisting
of eight subprojects) over 20 years is estimated to be over 50%. All costs
have been included, except those for price contingencies and preparation of
a second-stage project, the latter having no direct relation to production
under the project. Economic rates of return were computed for each individual
subproject; details of each analysis are included in Parts 1 through 8 of
the Implementation Document and are summarized below. Economic rates of
return for the subprojects are high because of large sunk costs.
Summary of Economic and Sensitivity Analyses
Best Estímate     _                       Sensitívity Tests
Economic Rate            Switching Values a/ (%)               Economic ROR (%)
of Return (ERI)  Increase  Decrease in   Increase in    One-Year 20% Decrease in
__ ___ í_ in Costs    Benefits    Power Costs b/   Lag cl    Milk Price
Sibundoy       18              25          20               -             17           13
Lebrija        36              88          47               -             28           35
Rio Recio      50+ d/         197           66              -             50+           -
San Alfonso   45              105          51               -             32            -
El Juncal      41              41           29             724            30             -
Zulia          50+            162           62              -             50+            -
R.U.T.         50+            341           77              -             50+            -
Samaca         50              47           32              -             30            -
Total Project 50+             126           56
al   The switching value is the percentage increase in costs or decrease in
benefits, which must prevail in order for the economic rate of return to
fall below the economic opportunity cost of capital (11%).
b/   Increase in power cost required to reduce the economic rate of return
to 11%.
c/   Benefits and on-farm investment and operating costs lagged one year
behínd district investment.
d/   50+ means:  above 50%.



- 42 -
6.04      General principles applied during the analysis are as follows:
(a)  output from the project has been valued at estimated efficiency
prices at farmgate. In the case of rice, maize, sorghum, soybeans,
cotton and beef, economic prices have been based on the constant-
1980 price forecasts of the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections
Department. In the case of fresh milk, the price of mílk reconsti-
tuted from imported skim milk powder and butter oil was determined
and a 20% quality premium was added. In the case of remaining
commodities, output has been valued at the domestic market price,
which is estimated to represent a lower bound for the economic
value. All prices used appear in the Implementation Document,
Parts 1-8, and are summarized for the base year in Annex 2,
Table 17;
(b)  inputs have been valued at estimated efficiency prices, either by
directly adjusting domestic prices to take into account the effect
of taxes, subsidies and other price distortions, or by applying
border price ratios (e.g., in the case of energy costs). In the
case of unskilled labor, shadow wage-rates were estimated for each
subproject to take account of the special circumstances of each
regional labor market. The shadow wage rate factor utilized
are: Samaca and Zulia (1.00); Rio Recio (0.80); Sibundoy, Lebrija,
R.U.T. and El Juncal (0.58); and San Alfonso (0.50);
(c)  all project costs have been based on October 1980 prices; and
(d)  in the analysis, provision was made for replacement of machinery
and equipment at the farm and district levels.
C. Risk
6.05      Sensitivity testing was carried out for each subproject and for the
project as a whole. Switching values for costs and benefits were computed
for all subprojects and for the project as a whole, and the impact of a
one-year lag ín on-farm development was tested.  In the milk producing districts
(Sibundoy and Lebrija), the impact of changes in the assumptions regarding the
economic value of milk was determined and, in the case of El Juncal, where
pumping costs comprise a significant proportion of district operating expenses,
the sensitivity of the subproject to increases in power costs was analyzed.
Based on the findings of the sensitivity analyses, which are summarized in
paragraph 6.03, it appears very unlikely that any subproject would prove to be
uneconomic.
6.06      Other possible risks are:  lack of timely availability of sufficient
credit, farmer's reluctance to invest in land leveling, unreceptiveness in
Lebtija to start crossbreeding tTopical cattle aná u-receptiveness in R.U.T.
to intensify irrigation. Reluctance to accept land leveling will be overcome



- 43 -
through the intervention of FEDERARROZ, which will construct demonstration
plots in each rice district. As an ultimate incentive, HIMAT contemplates the
introduction of an increased volumetric tariff to penalize excessive per
hectare water consumptíon. If in Lebrija the proposed cattle crossbreeding
program would fail, the reclaimed land would still offer sufficient profit-
able production alternatives. Since appraisal, the national cotton growers'
federation has started an action to construct a cotton ginning plant in
R.U.T. In addition, plans have been formulated to construct a vegetable cold
storage and marketing center in Roldanillo. Either action would result in
stimulating R.U.T. farmers to increase their use of irrigation facilities.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a)  procurement procedures would be as outlined in paragraph 3.19;
(b)  disbursement procedures would be as outlined in paragraph 3.21;
(c)  staffing and operation of a project implementation unit within
HIMAT (para 4.02);
(d)  hiring of extension and training technicians and providing the
Bank with draft contracts (para 4.08);
(e)  procedures, terms and conditions for the operation of a
Working Fund (para 4.12);
(f)  availability of agricultural credit (para 4.17);
(g)  accounting and financial reporting requirements (paras 4.21, 4.23,
4.24, and 4.25);
(h)  performance schedules for recovery of costs (para 4.37);
(i)  replacement of O and M equipment (para 4.39).
7.02      Appointment of the project implementation unit within HIMAT as well
as approval by Che Bank of its terms of reference and nomination of a head of
this unit with adequate qualifications is condition of effectiveness (para 4.02).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a)  contracts must be awarded before December 31, 1985 (para 3.21);
(b)  establishment of the Working Fund (para 4.12); and
(c)  the collection ratio in each district must be better than 80%
(para 4.34).



- 44 -
7.04      With the assurances obtained at negotiations, the project provides
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to HIMAT of US$37.0 million equivalent; the
terms would be 17 years including a four-year grace period and interest at
the rate prevailing when the Loan documents are circulated to the Board.
April 29, 1981.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Civil Works Description
1.   Sibundoy:
(i) construction of about 100 kílometers of drainage canals and 30
kílometers of roads, three bridges with a span of 25 meters each
and four bridges with a span of less than 10 meters each and eight
foot bridges;
(íí)  rehabilitation of about 17 kilometers of interceptor canals and
resurfacing of about 50 kilometers of dikes; and
(iii)  constrnction of about 8 kilometers of new díkes, rehabilitation
of inlet and flood derivation structures with gabions, and con-
struct:ion of gabion check dams in the smaller torrents.
2.   Lebrija:
(i)  construction of about 71 kilometers of roads with about 212
culverts, about 23 box culverts and about 9 small bridges;
(ií)  construction of about 86 kilometers of new drains in the dístrict's
area of unimproved pasture land, and rehabilitation of about 46
kilometers of existing drains in the district's area with drainage
and road infrastructure;
(iii) rectification of about 15 kilometers of natural drainage canals
in the district's area of unimproved pasture land;
(iv)  construction of check structures in major drains to maintain a
high water elevation during the low rainfall periods;
(v) protection of the Zulía dike over about 26 kilometers; and
(vi)  improvement of the electric power supply to the district office.
3.   Rio Recio:
(í) raising the crest of the diversion weir at Rio Recio and increasing
the díscharge capacíty of the two major canals by two cubic meters
per second;
(ií) installatíon of a pump station on the main draín to recycle one
cubic meter per second into the irrigation system of the Ambalema
area; and
(iii) rehabilitation of the irrigation and road systems.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.   San Alfonso:
(1) rehabilitation of the canal system, including the construction of
three desilting basins, the lining of some crítical sections and
the installation of farm outlets with control structures;
(íi) rehabílitation of the road system; and
(iii)  installation of fuel tanks at the dístríct office.
5.   El Juncal:
(i) construction of a concrete líned by-pass canal of about 2.6
kilometers long, wíth a capacity of about 4.5 cubic meters
per second;
(ji) construction of a sedimentation basin at the outlet of the force
main;
(iii)  lining of canal Surtidor;
(iv) construction of five Parshall flumes and measuring weirs;
(v) improvement of the district office and machine shed;
(vi) construction of about 72 farm turnouts;
(vii)  widening of about 2.2 kilometers of canal 5 to increase its
discharge from 0.4 to 1.5 cubic meters per second; and
(viii) construction of irrigation infrastructure on about 800 additional
ha.
6.   Zulia:
(i) rehabilitation of the intake structure, includíng installatíon
of a 14 kilometers long 13.2 KV power line, construction of a crane
above the gates, restructuring of the sedimentation basin, and
cleaning of the Zumallero siphon;
(ii) protection with gabions of about 35 draínage outlets;
(iii)  desilting about 10 kilometers of primary canals;
(iv) construction of one bridge of about 20 meters and of 10 bridges
of six meters each;
(v) resurfacíng of about 155 kilometers of exísting gravel roads;
(vi) reconstruction of about 16 kilometers of dikes;
(vii)  construction of about 33 kilometers of secondary irrigation and
drainage canals;



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(viii) constructíon of about 35 kilometers of new roads;
(ix)  desílting of the main drains;
(x)  repair of canal berms; replacement of steel gates in small check
structures; and
(xi)  constructíon of a gate operator's house at the intake and improve-
ment of the Administrative Center, includíng an adequate purified
domestic water supply system and two 3,000 gallon fuel storage
tanks to serve the maintenance equipment.
7.   Roldanillo, La Uni6n and Toro:
(i)  raísing and protectíng the dike;
(íi)  lining part of the marginal canal;
(iii)  constrjctíon of írrigation infrastructure on about 600 additional ha;
and
(v)  rehabilitation of exístíng írrigation ínfrastructure on about 1,200 ha.
8.   Samaca:
(i)  construction of an underground pressure pípe irrigation system with
hydrants;
(íi)  inerease of the storage capacity of the Gachaneca dam by an additional
two million cubic meters; and
(iii) construction of a diversion weir;
(iv)  ímprovement of the drainage system and rehabilitation of the road
and bridge systems.



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1 PROJECT
Distríct Characteristics
Presently                  Annual      Annual    Type of
Equipped   Elevation   Rainfall        ETP        Water      Sprinklers
Type of Service    Main Crops         (ha) a/        (        .ML          ()mm) b/    Supply         (ha)      Accessibilitv       Nearest Market
Sibundoy         Drainage,            Dairy            3,800         2,200       1,580         874         -                          Poor         Pasto (65 km)
flood control
Lebrija          Drainage,            Pasture,          2,500          110       2,641       1,773         -              _           Poor         Bucaramanga (110 km)
flood control       rice,
sorghum
Rio Recio        Irrigation,          Rice             9,000           350       1,315       1,830       Dam            No            Good         Ibague (70 km)
drainage
San Alfonso      Irrigation           Rice,               915          440       1,000       2,261       River          No            Poor         Neiva (60 km)
sorghum                                                           intake
El Juncal        Irrigation           Rice             2,620           470       1,405       1,777       Pumps          No            Good         Neiva (10 km)
Zulia            Irrigation,          Rice             5,933           100       1,965       1,424       Weir           No            Average      Cucuta (31 km)
drainage,
flood control                                                                                                                                            -
R.U.T. a/        Irrigation,          Soybeans,        8,900           920       1,135       1,681       Pumps       6,000            Good         Cali (170 km)
drainage,           sorghum,                                                                                                     Pereira (60 km)
flood control       cotton
Samaca           Irrigation           Pasture,         2,200        2,600          751       1,434      Dam            800            Good         Tunja (25 km)
barley,
vegetables
a/ Equipped with irrigation on drainage infrastructure.
b/ ETP - Potential evapotranspiration.
c/  Roldanillo, La Union, Toro.
Source:  Mission
March 17, 1981                                                                                                                                               x



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Land Tenure in Presently Irrigated Areas
Numbers of Families and Area Owned                         Average Hectares Owned
INCORA a/              Private              Distríct            INCORA     Private      District
No. b/      Ha         No.        Ha         No.         Ha
Sibundoy              262       1,630       854       6,712      1,116      8.342        6.2         7.9           7.5
Lebrija               173       7,591         28      1,689        201       9,280      43.8        60.3          46.2
Rio Recio               78        357        223      8,515        301       8,872        4.6        38.2          29.5
San Alfonso            65         329         76        586        141         915       5.1         7.7           6.5
El Juncal              216      1,970         23        649        239       2,619        9.1       28.2          10.9
Zulia                 545       5,112         68      1,761        613       6,873        9.4       25.9          11.2
R.U.T.                 104        513      1,082      8,987      1,186       9,500        4.9         8.3           8.0
Samaca                                                2,24 -  970  2 4  970  2,244        -           2.3           2.3
Total              1,443     17,502      3,324     31,143      4,767      48,645
%                     30         36         70          64       100         100
Project Average                                                                          12.1         9.4          10.2
a/ INCORA = Beneficiaries of agrarian reform.
b/ Number of families consisting of 6 family members. Total number of families corresponds to 28,600 persons.
Source: Mission
March 17, 1981
(D X
N, k»



- so -                                              ANNEX 2
Table 3
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABIILITATION I PROJECT
District Development
Special Features
Ha/Yr Cropped              Land
Distriet Areas (Ha)                            Cropping         Leveling    Sprinklers
Drainage                         Cultivable            Equipped a/      Rainfed       Intensity b/        (ha)          (ha)       Pumping
Sibundoy
Present                           6,850                3,800           6,250           91%                 -            _         _
With project                      7,950                5,500           7,950          100%                 -                       -
Lebrija
Present                           8,780                2,500          10,900          124%                 -                       No
With project                      8,780                8,780          12,500          142%             1,800            -          Some
Subtotal Drainage
Present                        15,630               6,300           17,150          110%
With project                   16,730               14,280          20,450          122%
Irrigation                                                              Irrigated
Rio Recio
Present                          18,650                9,000           9,500          106%              800             -         No
With project                     18,650                9,000          13,500          150%            4,000             -          Some
San Alfonso
Present                             915                  915           1,490          163%                 -            -
With project                         915                 915           1,830          200%               400            -          -
El Juncal
Present                           3,420                2,620           4,232          162%                 -            -          Yes
With project                       3,420               3,400           6,800          200%             2,000            -         Yes
Zulia
Present                          13,608                5,933           8,854          149%                 -            -         _
With project                     13,608                7,860          15,720          200%            4,000             -          -
R.U.T.
Present                           9,500               8,900            9,500          107%                -        6,000 el d/   Yes
With project                      9,500                9,500          16,600          175%            1,000        7,300          yes
Samaca
present                           2,200                2,200           2,750          125%                -          800          Yes d/
With project                      2,200                2,200           3,500          159%                -        1,800          No
Subtotal Irrigation
present                        48,293              29,568           36,326          123%
With project                   48,293              32,875           57,950          176%
Total
Present                        63,923              35,868           53,476                            800        6,800
With project                   65,023               47,155          78,400                         13,200        9,100
al  Equipped with irrigation/drainage infrastructure,
b/  For drainage distrícts expressed per cultivable ha/ for irrigation areas expressed per ha equipped.
el Potential, but actually used on 5,000 ha.
d/  Vy p        stiínYIer pumps.
Source: Mission
March 17, 1981



IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1 PROJECT
Schedcl of E....díltera
(Col$ milIí-on)
TOta                             1981                           1982                           1983                             1984                              1985
Total    FE      Loca           TotalI   FE       Local        Total     FE      Local        Total     FE      Local          Total     FE      Loa             Toral    FE       Lúe&
Civil locke                                936.6   413.6    573.0           127.3   53.3        74.0      209.1   87.7       121.4       247.2   103.6    143.6            253.2   106.2   147.0            149.8   62.8       87.0           42
Eqccp=cOc                                  493.0   443.7       49.3         149.3  134.4        14.9      186.3   167.6       18.7       142.4   128.2       14.2           15.0     13.5      1.5            -        -         -             90
ldad1ec...30,,ç  Oovaeriaaoc               673.6   219.8    453.8            56.5   18.4        38,1       112.3   36,6        75.7      151.3    49.4    101.9            191.3    62.5    128.8           162.2   52.9    109.3              33
Icícae=r-al W-rkicg CapItel                633.6   190.2    443.4           184.5   55.4       129.1        74.7   22.4       52.3        150.2    45.1      104.1         117.9    35.4      82.5          106.3    31.9       74.4           30
DfVlcp..et S---rvico  a/                   128.0    22.9    105.1            24.9    4.4        20.5        24.7    4.4        20.3        26.6      4.8      21.8          25.6      4.5     21.0           26.2     4.7       21.5           18
E.gt.e.ricg                                224.4    22.5    201.9            29.3    2.9        26.4        47.5    4.8        42.7        55.6      5.6      50.0          57.7      5.8     51.9           34.3     3.4       30.9           10
Iccraaactal O & m                          191.9    78.7    113.2             7.1    2.9         4.2        21.1    8.7        12.4        35.5    14.5       21.0          53.3     21.9    31.4            74.9    30.7       44.2           41
Prapoc.ti,4   Phlae 2 ecd Tr-iílcg  b/      67.3    21.7       45.6           3.8    1.2         2.6        13.2    4.3         8.9        24.2      7 8      16,4          13.2      4.3      8.'7          12.9      4.1       8.8           32
B0ae Llae Ca-t                           3,398.4  1,413.1   1,985.3         582.7  272.9       309.8       688.9  336.5       352.4       833.0   359.0    474.0           727.2   254.2   473.0             566.6   190.5    376.1
Plhyecal Coarlagacae                       146.2    61.6       84.6          19.1    8.1        11.0        30.7   12.9        17.8        36.3    15.3       21.0          37.6     15.8    21.8            22.5      9.5      13.0
14TAL COST                               3        1.474.7   2,069.9         601.8  281.0       320.8       719.6  349.4       378.2       869.3    374,3   495.0           764.8   270.0   494.8            589.1  200.0       389.1           42
D.atltorí                                                                           1,102      1,264               1.174      1,483                1.268     1,793                  1,363    2,132                   1,465     2,492
Total IncludnLg PrIce Contíig-cles       5,721.9  1,855.5   3,866.4         715.2  309.7       405.5       959.2  410.2       549.0    1,362.0   474.6       8S7.4       1,422.9   368.0  1,054.9         1,262.6   293.0    969.6             32
Oatellalocn ColS                                    1,521       1.0                 1,178        1.0               1,306        1.0                1.502       1.0                  1.728      1.0                   1,954       1.0
TOTAL PE1O CO0T                           .,68B.l  2.821.7  3.866.4         770.3 364.0        405.5     1.0&4.7   2)¿        549.0     1.600.2    712.8      087.4      1.690.3    635.9  1.054.9         1.542.1   572.5     969.6           42
U0$ Ocaha-ge Rcte                                    50,0      78.5                  50.0       58.9                50.0       65.3                 50.0      75.1                   50.0     86.4                    50.0      97.7
TOTAL D0L1,R 1osT (US$  illIca)             86.34    37.10     49.24         13.07    6.19       6,88        _,61   8.20        0.41       21,31     9.49     11.82         19.57     7,36    12.21           15.78    5.86      9.92          43
0/ Of tht, eo,oct Col$ 21.0 millc==  ir 17T le Eor local reciciag
E' Of chIc  ..ao.. Col$ 17.3 aillion  oc 06i le for foral g  cocalíteca  004 f=raign t-elcícg.
Orcícc. Mi ilc
Mah 17, 1961



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures, Sources of Financing and Disbursements
Schedule of Expenditures                                       Disbursement                   Sources of Financing
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5                   Total           %            IBRD    Government    Banks    Beneficiaries
----------- uss                           .7 -                                                                 US$ Million -------------
Civil Works                     2.8        4.8        6.0        6.5        4.1                  24.2         69             16.8 b/    7.4 b/          -            -
Equipment and vehicles          3.3        4.4        3.6        0.4        -                    11.7         90             10.6        1.1 b/         -            -
Medium-Term Investment           1.2        2.6       3.7        4.9        4.3                  16.7           -             -          -             12.5          4.2
Incr. Working Capital           4.0        1.7        3.7        3.0        2.8                  15.2          -              -          -             4.9          10.3
Development services            0.5        0.6        0.6        0.6        0.7                   3.0         69              2.1 L/    0.9 b/          -            -
Engineering                     0.6        1.0        1.4        1.4        0.9                   5.3         69              3.7 b/    1.6 b/         -             -
Incremental O & 11              0.2        0.5        0.8        1.4        2.0                   4.9          -              -          4.9 c/        -             _
Phase II Preparation            0.1        0.2        0.4        C.3        0.2                   1.2         69              0.8 b/    0.4 b/         -             -
Foreign Cons. and Training    -            0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1                   0.5        100              0.5        -             -             -
Physical Contingencies d/       0.4        0.7        0.9        1.0        0.6                   3.6         69              2.5        1.1 b/        -             -
Total                        13.1       16.6      21.3       19.6        15.7                  .;,3                       37.0       17.4           17.4         14.5
Disbursements
End of Year Theoretical
Disbursement                  6.1        9.1        9.9        7.3        4.6                  37.0
Foreign Expenditures            3.0        4.1        3.4        0.5        0.1                  11.1
Through Working Fund            3.1        5.0        ó.5        6.8        4.5                  25.9  + 11.4 from Government
(69%)    (31%)
Theoretical Cumulative
Disbursement                  6.1       15.2       25.1       32.3       37.0
Expressed as %                 16%        41%        68%        88%       100%     Year 6      Year 7       Year 8
LAC Agriculture Average e/    3%          14%        29%        48%        65%       79%         89%          95%
Assumed for Project             8%        27%        50%        70%        80%       90%        100%           -
Projected Disbur5ement          3.0       10.0       18.5       25.9       29.6      33.3        37.0          -
a/  Corrected for inflation and peso devaluation.                                           
b/ To be channeltd through the Working Fund.
c/  partiaííy recovered from increased water charges
d/  physical contingencies of civil works.
e/  Source: Finafcial Policy and Analysis Department, Noveniber 24, 1980
Average for all LAC agriculture projects FY70-FY80.
Sourcc: Mission
March 17, 1981



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Cost Table
Total     Foreign      Local      FE%      Total      Foreign      Local     _
---------- Col$ Million ----------                      US$ Million --  ------
Civil Works a/                         986.6       413.6       573.0      42     19.73        8.27       11.46       29
Equipment a/                           493.0       443.7        49.3      90       9.86       8.87        0.99       14
Medium-Term Investment                 673.6       219.8       453.8      33      13.48        4.40       9.08       20
Incremental Working Capital            633.6       190.2       443,4      30     12.67         3.80       8.87       18
Development Services a/                128.0 b/    22.9        105,1      18       2.56        0.46       2.10        4
Engineering a/                         224.4        22.5       201.9      10       4.49       0.45        4.04        7
Incremental O and M                    191.9        78.7       113,2      41       3.83       1.57        2.26        6
Preparation Phase 2 & Training a|       67.3 e/    21,7         45.6      32       1.34       0.43        0.91        2
Base Line Cost                     3,398.4    1,413.1    1,985.3               67.96       28.25       39,71      100
Physical Contingencies al            146.2        61.6        84.6      42      2.92        1.23        1.69        4
Total Cost                         3,544.6    1,474.7    2,069.9        42     70.88       29.48       41.40
Price Contingencies                2,177.3       380.8    1,796.5       17     43,55        7.62       35,93
Total Cost including
Price Contingencies c/           5,721.9    1,855.5    3,866.4        32    114.43       37.10       77.33
Devaluation Effect                   966.2       966.2         -       lO0
TOTAL PESO COST d/                  .688.1    2,821.7    3,866.4        42
Revaluation Effect                                                            (28.09)       -         (28.09)
TOTAL DOLLAR COST d/                                                           86.34       37.10       49.24
ef which:
Physical Contingencies             146.2        61.6        84.6              2.92        1.23        1,69
Price Contingencies              2,177.3       380.8    1,796.5              43.55        7.62       35.93
Exchange Rate Adjustmtent          966.2       966.2         -              (28.09)       -         (28.09)
Total Contingencies              3,289.7    1,408.6    1,881.1        43     18.38        8.85        9.53
a/ Items financed by the Bank.
b/  Incl,l,l¿e   2ol.  1.0h -IMon For local trainlng.
c/ Excluding projected devaluation of the Colombian peso,
d/ Including projected devaluation froin US$1 = Col$ 50 at end 1980 to. US$1 = Col$ 97.70 in mid-1985.
e/  Of which preparation Phase TI = Col$ 50.n million and foreign consultants and training Col$ 17.3 million.
Source:  Mission
March 17, 1981



54 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 7
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
District Investments
Equipment                   Civil Works a/
District        MCol$/district   US$/ha b/       MCol$/district   US$ha
Sibundoy                37.9          95               183.9         463
Lebrija                 58.1          132              214.8         489
Rio Recio               72.7         162               100.6         223
San Alfonso             22.0         481                41.5         907
El Juncal               77.2         454                92.3         543
Zulia                   93.2          237               193.4        492
R.U.T.                 109.8          231                99.6        210
Samaca                  15.0         136               206.7       1,879
Project Total          485.9 c/         -            1,132.8
Project Average          -            196                 -          457
al Including physical contingencies.
b/ Per ha equipped with irrigatíon/drainage infrastructure, except for
Sibundoy where the 7,950 cultivable ha of the district were used.
cl Excludes flat bed truck of Col$ 7.1 million for general transportation
of heavy equipment.
Source:  Mission
March 17, 1981



COLOMB IA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Equipment to be Procured
Basic Cost
Sibundoy~~j                Rio Recio      San Alfonso       Combined e/    El Juncal    Zulia           R.IJ.T.    Samaca    Central           Total          Col$ Million
Dragline 3/4 yd3, Wheels                                                                                                                                                                          3            19.8
Dragline 3/4 yd3, Tracks                          2            1                                                                             2                                                    5            33.0
Hydr. Excavator 314 yd3, Tracks                                              2                1                                  1                                  1                             5            28.0
Hydr. ExcaVator 3/4 yd3, Wheels                                                                                                              1              2                                     3            15.6
FrontloadeííBackhoe  75 HP Wheels                 1            1             2                                                               1              2       1                             8            15.2
Frontloade,, 1-1/2 yd3, 110 HP                                                                                1                                             1                                     2              5.6
Bulldozer 105 HP                                  1            2             2                1                                  1           2              1                                    10             38.0
Tractor 90 HP, Wheels                             1            3             2                                                               7              2                             15(37)52 b/          83.2
Grader 120 HP                                     1            1              1                                1                             1              1                                     6             28.2
VíbrocompBctor 50 HP                              1            1              1                                                              2              1                                     6              8.4
Bucket Mower                                      1            2             1                                                               5              2                                    11             15.4
Flat Bed Truck                                                                                                                                                                    1               1              7.1
Dump Truck 4 m3                                   2            4             4                1                                  2           5              5       2                            25            35.0
Service Truck                                                                                                                                1                                                    1              2.8
Pick-Up                                           1            2             1                1                                  1           2              3       1                            12              9.6
Four Wheel Drive Vehicle                          3            4             6                1                                  3           4              3       2                     26(13)39 el           23.4
Concrete 1ixer 10 HP                              1            2             4                                                               2                                                    9              1.8  e/
Radio Set                                                                     1                                1                             1                                                    3              2.4
Topographlc and Office Equipment                  1            1              1                               1                               1             1       1                             7              4.9 !/
Motorcycl19    n 125  Oc                                                     6                2                                   2          6             10        2                    28(21)49  l            4.4 e/
Workshop kquípment                                1            1              1                                1                              1             1        1                             7             7.7 el
Large PumtU0                                                                                                               (40.5)6 d/                (35.0)7                                     13             75.5
Mobile PuBIPS, 9-25 HP                                         4              2               1                                   1                                                               8              2.6  e/
Laborator5 Equipment                                                                                                                                        1                                                    0.9 e/
Laed LIe2ek1in  Eu,pment
Scraper 2  35                                                               11                2                                   7         10              2                                    37             12.2
Tractor 9  HP                                                  5             11               2                                   7         10              2                                   (37)             -
Land Planl 3.70                                                4              9               2                                   5           5             4                                     29            12.3
Technical Assistance
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                         3            5                                               1                              1             2        1                          (13)             -
Motorcyc1,, 125 cc                                6             5                                              2                              2             4        2                           (21)
Total Besic Cost
;l  JOintly used by El Juncal and San Alfonso.                                                                                                                                                                          1
b/ Total number of tractors includes those required for land levelling.
0/  Total number includes units required for technical assistance.
d/  Figures in parentheses indicate value in million Col$.
a/ Procurement under local shopping.
Soutrce: Mission
MaFch 17, 1981



- 56 -                     ANNEX 2
Table 9
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Preparation Phase II
Estimated Cost
Col$ Million
- Rehabilitation districts Uso Coello and
Uso Saldana, 46,000 ha x 1.5% x Col$ 40,000/ha               30,0
- Feasibility study of a 24 km supply canal for
El Juncal with intake structure near proposed
Betana dam 2% of (24 km x 4.0 M$/km + 40 M$
intake structure + 3,000 ha additional
irrigation at Col$ 50,000/ha)                                5.7
- Feasibility study of 160 M$ dam at 2.5% for
Rio Recio plus increase capacity of main canal               5.3
- Study of groundwater irrigation potential for
Samaca and Lebrija;1O test wells at Col$ 770,000
and Col$ 1,3 million study                                   9.0
- For Alto Chicamocha, comparative study for water
supply through canals or from pumping station
and underground pipe network. Not financed by
Bank                                                          _
Total                                                       50.0
Source: Mission
February 5, 1981



- 57 -
COLOMBIA                                                        ANNEX 2
Table 10
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1 PROJECT
Training Program
Local Training 1981-1985
Participants    Duration                              No. of                                 Cost in
Level and Course                 Given by        Per Course      in Weeks            Place             Courses             Remarks             U5$
Farmers
Traditional irrigation              FEDEARROZ                                    San Alfonso-Juncal-
SENA                20             1        Rio Recio-Zulia             4         During irrigation            6,400
Rice puddling                       FEDEARROZ                                    San Alfonso-Juncal-
SENA                20             1        Rio Recio-zulia              5        Planting season              8,000
Agricultural equipment              SENA                20             1         Eight distriets             8                                     12,800
Farm adminíistration                SENA-PNCA           20             1         Eight districts             8        Between harvests             12,800
livestock                           SENA                20             1         Lebrija-Sibundoy-           5                                      8,000
Rio Recio-Saxaca-
San Alfonso
Drainage                            HIMAT               20             1         Eight districts             8                                     12,800
Sprinkle- irrigation                HIMAT-SENA          30             1         R.U.T-Saraca                3                                     7,200
Gravity irrigation                  NINAX-SENA          30             1         R.U.T,-Zulia-Juncal-        4                                     9,600
San Alfonso
Water management                    CIAT-ICA            30             1         Eight districts             8                                    19,200
Ditch Riders
Nater measuring                     HIMAT               20             1         Rio Recio-R.U.T.-Prado    3                                       18,400
Human relations                     SENA                25             1         Prado de Sevilla            1                                     7,500
Machine Operators
Maintenance of equipment            SENA                20             1         Buga-Bogota                 3                                    18,000
Industrial safety                   SENA                20             1         Seven districts             7                                     3,500
Mechanics
Diesel and gas engines              SEN.                20             1         Buga-Bogota                 2                                     12,000
Safety measures for electric        SENA                20             1         Buga-Bogota                 2                                    12,000
motors
Technical Assistants
Pump operation and maintenance    FERROSTAAL            20             1         Bogota                      1                                     6,000
Safety measures for pump
operation                         SENA                20             1         Bogota                      1                                     6,000
(Continued)



-58-                                                                ANNEX 2
Table 10
Participants    Duration                                 No. of                                   Cost in
Level and Course                  Given by         Per Course       in Weeks             Place             Courses             Remarks                US$
Professionals
Puddling                             FEDEARROZ             25             1         Zulia-Palmira                2                                       20,000
CIAT-ICA
Extension techniques                 ICA-IICA-PNCA         25             2         Tibaitata (Bogota)           1         For HIMAT and INCORA         15,600
Electric motors                      General Electric   10                1         Bogota                       1                                       4,000
Land leveling                        HIMAT-ICA             10             1         Tibaitata (Bogota)           1         Chiefs of operation           4,000
Pumping equipment                     Supplíers            10             1         Bogota                       1         Chiefs of maintenance         4,000
Dístriet maintenance                 NIMAT-CIDIAT          10             1         R.U.T.                       1         Chiefs of maintenance         9,000
Project evaluation                   PNCA                   4             4         Bogota                       1                                        5,600
Drip irrigation                      ICA                   10             1         Tibaitata (Bogota)           1                                       4,000
Design of gravity systems            ICA                   10             1         Tibaitata (Bogota)           1                                       4,000
Intenmediate Technícians
Puddling                             PEDEARROZ-EIMAT    20                1         Rio Recio-Zulia              2                                       18,400
Irrigation and drainage              HIMAT                 20             1         Padro de Sevilla             2                                      18,400
District operation and
maintenance                        HIMAT                 20             1         R.U.T.                       2                                      18,400
Water measurement                     HIMAT                20             1         Zulia                        2                                       18,400
Technical Assistants
Puddling                             FEDEARROZ             10             1         Zulia-Rio Recio-             3                                       9,000
Juncal
Farm water management                HIMAT                 10             2         Eight districts              8                                      24,000
Dry land leveling                     ICA                  10             1         Eight districts              8                                       24,000
Subtotal                    381,000
(Continued)



- 59 -                                                           ANNEX 2
Table 10
Participants   Duration                                  No. of                                     Cost in
Course                     Given by         Per Course    in Weeks                Place             Courses          Remarks                      Us$
Local Training with Foreign Consultants
District operation and                Irrigation            25             1         R.U.T.-Bogota                 1         Two experts                   32,000
maintenance                         Departments
Mexico or Spain
Salinity and drainage                 CID]AT                25             2          Samaca                       1         Twn experts                   24,000
Land leveling                         ManLufacturer         12             4         Rio Recio -Neiva-                                                     25,000
Zulia-Lebrija
Equípment requirement and             Bureau of
selection                           Reclamation, U.S.A. 25               1         R.U.T.                       1          Two experts                  25,000
Evaluation and monitoring             U.S.A.                 9            31 al      Bogota-eight districts    3             Economists and               64,000
Agronomis cts
Subtotal                    145,000
Foreign Training
Mechanized rice production            Stichting mnachinale                                                                   ICA agriculturalists
land bouw             4              4         Surinam                                and HIMAT engineers           11,000
Modern dairy farming                  KfW                    4             4         Federal Republic of                     ICA veterinary-              18,000
Germany                                livestock specialist
Irrigation practice                   Utah University       8              6         Utah-California                         Irrigation engineers        120,000
Tropical livestock breeding           Programa Ganadero   4                6         Panama-Costa Rica-Nonduras              Veterinaries-livestock    44,000
and pasture management              de Panamá y Honduras:                                                                  specialists
CATIE, Turrialba
Project evaluation                    EDI                    2             2         Washington                              HIMAT economists              4,000
Reservoir operation                   CIDEAT               4               3         Merida                                  HIMAT engineers               8,000
Subtotal                    205,000
TOTAL
a/ Seven expert man-emonths over duralion of the project.
Sotlrce: HIMAT
March 18, 1981



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Technical Assistance Reguirements
Type of Specialist              Sibundoy    Lebrija    Rio Reeio    San Alfonso    El Juncal    Zulia    R.U.T.    Samaca             Total
Veterinarian                        2           1                                                                                      3
Livestock                           3           3                                                                                      6
Pasture                             4           3                                                                                      7
Chief extension worker                          1                         1 a/                         1         2          1          6
Assistant extetision worker                     2                         2                            2         4          2         12
Demonstration plots
Land levelling demonstration                    1                         2                2           2         1                     8
Pasture demonstratíon               2           2                                                                                      4       O
Red rice eliminatiOn                            1            1            1                1           1                               5
4-wheel drive vehicles              3           5                         1                            1         2          1         13 b/
Motorcycles                         6           5                         2                            2         4          2         21 b/
al Combined for San Alfonso and El Juncal.
b/ See Annex 2, Table 8.
Source;  Missionf
March 17, 1981
ID* M'



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table 12
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative Disbursements at
End of Semester
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester                         US$ Million al
FY 1982
December 31, 1981                                        3.0 b/
June 30, 1982                                            4.5
FY 1983
December 31, 1982                                        6.5
June 30, 1983                                           10.0
FY 1984
December 31, 1983                                       14.0
June 30, 1984                                           18.5
FY 1985
December 31, 1984                                       22.0
June 30, 1985                                           25.9
FY 1986
December 31, 1985                                       28.0
June 30, 1986                                           29.6
FY 1987
December 31, 1986                                       32.0
June 30, 1987                                           33.3
FY 1988
December 31, 1987                                       35.2
June 30, 1988                                           37.0
a/ See also bottom line Annex 2, Table 5,
bl Of which US$2.0 million in working fund and US$1.0 million for
equipment XC».
Source:  Mission
March 17, 1981



- -62 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 13
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
HIMAT:  Condensed Income Statement
INCOME                                         1977       1978      1979
----(Col$ Million)----
Government transfer                           190.5      304.8     458.6
Water sales al                                 32.3       62.5       81.7
Meteorology and hydrology services              2.2        2.7        1.2
Other income including previous year
adjustment                                   3.2        7.2      36.1
Total Income                                  228.2      377.2     577.6
COST
General administration cost                    82.8       98.0      70.5
OPERATING COST
Coordination of regions and regional
offices                                     66.6       49.4      68.8
Maintenance in the regions                     42.2       68.3     128.3
Operation in the regions                       15.4       28.4      51.7
Training and publication                    [          [              7.3
Adjudication of lands                       [ 42.0   [ 94.7-b(   21.1
Hydrology and meteorology                                          171.7
FINANCIAL COST                                  1.4        3.1       2.6
Other Cost, including adjustments
for previous years                           1.2       43.5      44.5
Total Cost                                    251.6      385.4     566.5
Surplus (deficit)                            (-23.4)    (-8.2)      11.1
a/ Including interest on overdues, collection of water users' overdues and
rent of heavy equipment (cash basis accounting).
b/ Classification of costs was changed in 1979.
Source: Mission
February 11, 1981



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1 PROJECT
HIMAT: Condensed Balance Sheet
(Col$ Million)
1977         1978         1979                                                           1977          1978          1979
ASSETs                                                                                         LIABILITIES
Current Assets                                                                                  Current Líabilities                    106.6         150.8         105.9
Cash and banks                               14.8          6.6         13.4
Receivables and advances paid               87.0          89.6        268.3                   Long-term Liabilities                    6.2          47.8         208.9
Inverntory                                  88.4         157.5        153.4
Total current assets                     190.2         253.7        435.1                   Total External Liabilities             112.8         198.6         314.8
Fixed Assets                                                                                          EQUITY
Ifvestment in irrigation districts
and protection works                       -            94.4        249.8                   Capital                                 58.0          58.0          58.0
Machinery and equipment                     110.8        128.0         142.8
Hydrometeorology stations                    26.5        114.3         105.3                  Annual Financial Results              (-23.4)        (-8.2)         11.1
Studies                                       7.5         20.3          15.7
Other assets                                  1.2          1.0           0.9                  Accumulated Surplus                    188.8         363.3         565.7
Total Fixed Assets                       146.0         358.0        514.5                   Total Equity                           223.4         413.1         634.8
Total= s3ets                                  336.2        611.7         949.6                  Total Liability and Eguity             336.2         611.7         949.6
--------------------------------------------Financial Ratios----------__________________________________
1977              1978               1979
(Current Assets       )                                     190.2= 168%    253.7 = 168%           435.1 = 411%
1.  Current Ratio (Current l.iabilities) in 7.                                   112.8             150.8              105.8
2.  Debt : Equity Ratio                                                          34:66             32:68              33:67
3.  Total Income excluding Government transfer                                    34.3   10.2%    66.5 = 10.9%    119.0 = 12.5%
in % of equity                                                            336.2             611.7               949.6
Source: Mission
February 11, 1981



COLOMBIA
IRRICATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
1979 Operation and Maintenance Cost Recovery
1980 Water Charges and Posed Water  harg  for O and M Cos t Recovery
Sibundoy     Lebrija      Rio Recio       San Alfonso      El Juncal       Zulia       R.U.T.        Samaca
Income a/ (Col$ '000/yr)_                                    256        15,436           3,899          10,485         13,077      14,403          648
Operation                                                  351         2,568             887          13,767          2,337      3,828         1,645
Maintenance b/                            8,931          9,597         6,065           3,625           3,730         10,295       9,851          759
Subtotal                               8,931          9,948         8,633            4,512          17,497        12,632      13,679        2,404
Overhead c/                               893            995           863             451             740 d/      1,263       1,368           240
Total                                  9,824          10,943         9,496           4j963          18,237        13,895      15,047         2,644
Cost Recovery Ratio %                                        2%          168%             72%             57%            94%         96% el       25% el  i
Collection Ratio %/O                                       2o/0%          98%             95%             95%            87%         87%          58%
1980 Water CharRes
Fixed Col$/ha/yr 3                                           250           400             760             880            840       1,350          390
Volumnetric Col$/m                                             -         0.060           0.130           0.380          0.070       0.300        0.150
Projected O & M Costs (Col$ '000/yr)yj/  21,300           23,400        34,300           9,800          47,000        40,100      45,500        11,400
proposed Water Charges
Fixed Col$/ha/yr                            2,679          2,665           381           1,070           1,382         2,550       2,395         1,555
Volumetríc Col$/m                               -              -         0.180           0.340           0.590          0.097       0.580        1.050
proposed percentage Distribution
of Cost Recovery
Fixed    Volumetric %                       100%0%         l0%-0%        10%-90%         0%--90%         10%-90%       50%-50%    50%-50%        30%-70%
a/  96% from water charges.
b/  Excluding depreciation.
c/  Assumed as 10% of operation plus maintenance costs.
d/  power costs of Col$ 10.1 million not included in computation of overhead costs.
e/  Farmers are incurring additional irrigation costs from use of private sprinkler equipment.
f/  This per ha tariff is higher than the preferred charge per liter of milk.
g/  Projected O and M costs in 1980 pesos, at full distriet development.
h/  Requirad to recover projected O and M costs in full.
Source:  Mission
March 18, 1981



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1 PROJECT
Present and Future Yields por Season
------------------------------------------------ Tons/ha  L-------------------------  i--------------------
Paddy                                                                                                     kg beef/    L milk/
Traditional  Basins  Sorghum    Cotton   Soybean   Maize   Vegetables   Grapes   Beans  Barley   Potatoes   ha/year                   ha/year
S ibundo5
Present                                                                                                                                            56          1,121
Full DeVelopment                                                                                                                                  203         3,528
TLebrija
Present                   4.6                   2.7                             1.7                                                               154            115
Full DeVelopment                      4.8       2.9                             1.9                                                               326          1,152
Rio Recio
Present                   5.7         5.8       2.3        1.8
Full Development          5.7         6.0        2.4       2.1
San Alonso                5.5                    2.0       1.8
Present                   5.6         5.8        2.0
Full Development
El Juncal
Present                   5.7                    1.9
Full Development          5.7          5.9       2.1
Zulia
Present                   4.5                    1.8
Full Development          4.6         4.7        1.8
R.U.T.
Present                                          2.4       2.1         2.5      3.6       24.0          18.8        1.2
Full Development                                 2.7       2.3         2.8                40.0          20.0
Samaca
Present                                                                                    14.0                     1.9    2.7       12.0
Fu1l Developanent                                                                          14.6                     2.1     2.9      13.2
Source: Míssion
cr z
X :m
H s



COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION 1 PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices (1980 Col$/t)
Sibundoy                Lebrila               El Juncal              R.U.T.                 Samaca                   Zulia                Rio Recio              San Alfonso
_iancial  Economic  Financial  Economic  Financial  Economie  Financial  Economie  Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic
Rice                             -      9,400      11,144      9,400       9,271          -           -                            8,800       10,613    10,500       10,264    10,000       11,814
Maize                -           -    10,400       10,279          -           -      9,000      10,019          -           -          -           -           -           -          -
Sorghum              -           -      9,400      10,498      9,650      12,088      9;300      10,638          -           -      9,350      10,698      9,400      12,408      9,350      11,838
Cotton               -           -          -           -          -           -    30,000       33,586          -           -          -           -    30,000       33,736    30,000       33,508
Soya                 -           -          -           -          -           -    17,500       24,467          -           -          -           -
Vegetables           -           -          -           _-                     -      8,370       8,370    10,000       10,000
Beans                -           -          -           -          -           -    41,000      41,000           -           -          -
Peas                 -           - -              -           -                -          -           -    25,000      25,000           -           -          -           -
Wheat                -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -    15,100      17,765           -           -          -                                   -
Barley               -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -    10,400      13,684           -           -          -           -          _
Potato                                                                         -          -           -    10,500      10,500           -           -          -           -
Grapes               -           -          -           -          -           -    10,000      10,000           -           -
Other Crops                      -          -           -          -           -    17,500      17,500
Milk            10,000       7,900    10,000        7,200          -           -          -           -
Beef            35,000     35,000    36,620       36,620           -           -
Source: Mission
February 5, 1981
Io ,t



- 67 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 18
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
Summary of Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Rent Recovery Index       Cost Recovery Index a/
Based on                Based on
Water Charges            Water Charges
Alone b/                 Alone
Sibundoy   Model 1               0.2                      ) 0.4
Model 2              0.1                      )
Lebrija    Model 1               0.1                      ) 0.4
Model 2              0.5                      )
Rio Recio                        0.1                        0.8
Zulia                            0.2                        0.6
El Juncal                        0.7 c/                     0.7
San Alfonso                      0.3                        0.6
Samaca                           0.1                        0.3
R.U.T.     Model 1 (2 ha)        0.1                      ) 0.8
Moodel 2 (10 ha)     0.2                      )
al These figures exclude any consideration of recovery of civil works
investment.
b/ Water charges used were the Bank's projected charges, which include
full recovery of variable O and M costs and straight line depreciation
of equipment.
c/ A rent recovery index larger than 0.5 is usually considered as a
disincentive to produce.
Source:  Mission
April 22, 1981



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION I PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Implementation Document                                            Page No.
Part   1    -  Sibundoy   .................... ................  1
Part 2 - Lebrija  . .....................................   30
Part 3 - Rio Recio                              ..53
Part 4 -  San Alfonso ................ ................   73
Part 5 - El Juncal ......................                  93
Part 6 -  Zulia .......     ...............................  113
Part 7  - R.U.T.       .....................................  135
Part 8  -  Samaca .......... ............................  158
Part 9 -  Organization, Accounting and Audits    ........  179
Selected Documents Available in LAC Files
Draft Report of the Colombia Irrigation Districts
Rehabilitation Project. Identification Mission.
FAO/CP, May 10, 1980, Volume I main text,
Annexes 1-4, Volume II, Annexes 5-11
Preparation Mission Follow Up, 9 working papers,
FAO/CP Report No. W.P. 13/80, August 14, 1980
Modelo para Aplicacion de Tarifas de Drenaje y Riego.
HIMAT, September 1980
Manual de Organizacion, HIMAT, September 1979
Reglamento de Valorizacion, INCORA.  Acuerdos 10 de 1968
y 013 de 1975
Proyecto de Rehabilitacion y Desarrollo Agricola de los
Distritos áe Riego y -Drena3e de Colombia.  1UMAT, June
1980. R.U.T., Samaca, Rio Recio, El Juncal, San Alfonso,
Lebrija, Sibundoy, Zulia
Requerimientos de Maquinaria para los Distritos de
Adecuacion de Tierras del HIMAT, November 30, 1979



ORGANIZATION CHART OF HIMAT
(Colombia - Irrigation Rehabilitation 1 Project)
BOARD OfF IRECTORS
GENERAL MAN R                 AUDITING
-------- S
LEGAL             - _  =                    -
OPERATIONSD L                                           ....... 
CONTRIOL
I   PROJECT1 | |ORGANIZATION ¡J
GENERAL                                                  ANPRCDUE
SECRETARIAT         -                    I IPICA2ION |NOCEDURESr
IMONITORING   ~   MPROGRAMMIHG
-I ANO STUDIES    AND EVALUATION
PUBLICATIONS COMMUNICATIONS
SUB-DIR                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBE-DIR ECT0R8ATESUDIETRE
SUB-OIRECTORATE                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HYDRtOLOGY ANO                              SUOIECORT
ADMINISTRATIONMETEOROLOGY                                                                                                  LANIMPROVEMNT
DIVISION          DIVISION           DIVISION            DIVISION           DIVISION          DIVISION           DIVISION             DIVISION          DIRRIION
FINANCIAL          SUPPLIES         PERSONNEL             SYSTEMS    !    HYDROLOGY          METEOROLOGY  I      NETWORKS           ENGINEERING   IRIT
1      11   PFIIS                                                          ROLOGY         NETWANALYSNGIANO           INATDOSTRIELS
ACCOUNTING         PURCHASE          PERSONNEL          PROGRAMMINO         HYDROLOGY        METEO LOO            IOCATION            ENGIEER           MAINTENANCE
TREASURY  CONTRRACTSTMNT                           ATAAPPLIED                         APPL ED
I   TREASURY   I 11  CONTRACTS  I IANO ASSIGNMENT |   l|  PROCESSIWG  | .  Nj APPYDROLOGY    METEOROL0OGY        EQUIPMENT             DESIGN           OPERATION
TRANSPRTATION                                                                                   INSTA LLATION
MAINTENANCE                            INFORMATION       ANO SEDIMENTI       LMTLG             MANINEAESURV N
GENERAL
SERWVICES
VA,,-d 6a.nk- 22496






CXAi-Fh%/zMe4;ACNFuAQb bHN92q-ql.W mh99 - \ ekl L w 0 l--f-P-il m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ F7-RPD 5
\  %   0     < LS +-      .    e         27            Ail   «       6      -      1       X       X     ;St 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
1 -,    '\       'Jome'X *zA  'X'"''' ''@''  '''"    ' U      0 ''                < ':   <' 2 l> 0"SEjp1 
-  28a       it \ \    ;i \l '£t\4          C              U    -        xS'  -<                       rfj 
í =l l e * \\\X\\<tr ao o! <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-I 1 '              -7  1  ; "   X   j , .<                                                                    _  
a                       ip XF ;  
~ <8tB \00"',  X0",
,    °   C   0  \ 200l'3( 50 0g42vi0Éil 2031  <- ---e3X'Sf  v__-   1|8 çb   ó-- /  4~ik
*;         5-       f'    gf   Wçg      ç 4            '0                                                   S,tt-
E I      lf          :  gPE80,  4,                                                   ',           t'      X<  
uo  '  '      o+e;i  g:tdt         Wj                  ;?:  :f:  :::9.(                                    0fi>        .       .
Z X X f w n? : : b : -. r S ,, m S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z



