Document of              I         COPy
The World Bank    IL    COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3007-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE HIDROLOGIA, METEOROLOGIA Y
ADECUACION DE TIERRAS
(HIMAT)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 29, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution
their official duties. Its contents may not



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1980                  Exchange Rate Effective February 2, 1981
US$1.00    =  Col$47.283                    US$1.00      =    Col$51.45
Col$1.00   =  US$0.02115                    Col$1.00     =    US$0.01944
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAJA      -     Caja De Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero
CIDA      -     Canadian International Development Agency
DRI       -     National Integrated Rural Development Program
FAO-CP    -     World Bank Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
FEDEARROZ -     Federation of Rice Growers
FFAP      -     Fondo Financiero Agropecuario
HIMAT     -      Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia
y Adecuacion de Tierras
ICA       -     Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
IDB       -     Inter-American Development Bank
INCORA    -     Agarian Reform Institute
O & M     -     Operations and Maintenance Expenditures
OPSA      -     Agricultural Sector Planning Office
(Ministry of Agriculture)
PIN       -     National Integration Plan
R.U.T.    -     Roldanillo, La Union and Toro Irrigation District
USAID     -     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y
Adecuacion de Tierras (HIMAT)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$37 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace
at 9.6% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would rehabilitate six irrigation and two
drainage districts covering about 47,000 ha, includ-
ing about 11,300 ha of newly equipped land. Maintenance
would be improved and obsolete equipment for operation
and maintenance would be replaced. Technical assistance
would be provided to small farmers and lands in rice
districts would be levelled to save water, reduce produc-
tion costs and increase cropping intensity. The project
would also strengthen HIMAT's capacity to appraise and
supervise irrigation/drainage projects and train benefi-
ciaries to manage their own irrigation systems. It is
expected that the project would benefit about 4,700
farm families, including nearly 1,500 land reform bene-
ficiaries. The major risk is that beneficiaries would
be reluctant to adopt technological changes including
land leveling, thus delaying or reducing project benefits.
This risk, however, is relatively small, and training,
technical assistance, access to credit and increased water
charges are all expected to encourage farmers to adopt
improved farming and irrigation practices.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                 Local          Foreign         Total
…    (US$ Million Equivalent)----
Civil Works                                11.5            8.2             19.7
Equipment                                   1.0            8.9              9.9
Medium-term Investment                      9.0            4.4             13.4
Incremental Working Capital                 8.9            3.8             12.7
Development Services                        2.1            0.5              2.6
Engineering                                 4.0            0.4              4.4
Incremental 0 & M                           2.3            1.6              3.9
Preparation Phase II                        0.9            0.4              1.3
Total Base Cost                      39.7            28.2            67.9
Physical Contingencies                      1.7             1.2             2.9
Price Contingencies                         7.9            7.6             15.5
Total Project Cost  1/               49.3            37.0            86.3
Financing Plan:                                 Local          Foreign         Total
-----(US$ Million Equivalent)----
Government                                 17.4            -               17.4
Participating Banks                        17.4            -               17.4
IBRD                                         -            37.0             37.0
Beneficiaries                              14.5            -               14.5
Total                                49.3            37.0            86.3
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year              1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
--------(US$ Million Equivalent) …
Annual                       4.5   5.5   8.5   7.4   3.7   3.7   3.7
Cumulative                   4.5  10.0  18.5  25.9  29.6  33.3  37.0
Rate of Return:       Above 50%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3356-COa, dated April 29, 1981
1/   HIMAT is exempt from custom duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE HIDROLOGIA, METEOROLOGIA
Y ADECUACION DE TIERRAS (HIMAT)
FOR A
FIRST IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Adecuacion de Tierras
(HIMAT) with the guarantee of the Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of
US$37 million to help finance a First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. The
loan would have a term of 17 years including four years of grace, with interest
at 9.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3222-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1981. This section on the economy reflects the
major findings of that report. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy made considerable progress over the past
quarter century. From a largely rural and agricultural base in the 1950s,
it evolved to a more integrated urban-industrial and services orientation.
The productive structure of the economy was broadened appreciably and output
in both the agricultural and industrial sectors became more diversified.
Public sector investment and output came to play a greater role in the economy,
primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of decentralized
agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater reliance on foreign trade
allowed the external sector of the economy to grow, with non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-industrial
coloration of economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas gave rise to rapid rural-urban migration as rural labor sought to
take advantage of higher productivity and better paying jobs in the major
metropolitan areas. Financial and capital markets evolved pari-passu with the
growing financial needs of the industrial and services sectors of the economy,
and Colombia has become an active participant in international capital markets.
The foreign exchange shortage, from which the country suffered for many years
because of sharp fluctuations in coffee prices, has moderated and the economy
has grown more resilient to external shocks as a result of the structural
changes that have occurred.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-79
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the Rural Roads Project
(No. P-2992-CO, March 12, 1981).



- 2 -
3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after
1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic
and educational opportunities for women, rapid rural/urban migration, rising
per capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs
contributed to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently
growing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of
women now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is
expected to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services over the past quarter century brought about a substantial improvement
in the welfare of the poorest income groups in Colombia, in both absolute and
relative terms. As a result of improved diets and better health care, the
crude death rate fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 50 years to
62 years. The child mortality rate declined from 17 per thousand in the early
1960s to 9 per thousand in the mid 1970s. Infant mortality, one of the best
indicators of welfare, fell to 98 per thousand in the mid-1970s, from about
124 per thousand in the early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased
substantially at all grade levels since 1960, and by the late 1970s, 91% of
urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income
groups, including those in rural areas, have experienced the greatest increases
in electricity and water services in recent years and have benefited more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and
economically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the countrv, public services are not available to a large proportion
of the rural and urban populations, unemployment and underemployment are
relatively high, and income and wealth distributions are skewed. The coverage
of health care is still deficient and adequate housing is not available to a
substantial proportion of the population. Rapid migration to the three major
metropolitan areas has created urban development problems, with attendant
social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita
income over the past quarter century, about one-third of the population enjoys
today only a minimum subsistance standard of living.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past twenty five years
were the result of Government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors,
provide the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an
effective institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s
development policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff
protection and the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector.
It was during this period that the country's major communication and trans-
portation networks were completed and the transformation to semi-industrial
economic structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s the prospects for
further import substitution were substantially diminished and the country
was in the midst of a period of great economic uncertainty, with economic
activity and the balance of payments heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-
looking development strategy. Export promotion policies, including periodic
exchange rate devaluations and export tax rebates, were introduced and the



- 3 -
authorities began lowering tariffs and freeing capital markets from controls
as means of raising efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were highly successful in relieving
the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth. However, by the
mid-1970s the economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily
by the world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic
budget deficits.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses pre-
vailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective,
the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp
increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports,
together with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports,
caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimu-
lated aggregated demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accele-
rated and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas.
Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated surpluses averaging about 5.8% of GDP during the 1976-79 period, and
by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to about
US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months imports of goods and non-factor
services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has had
a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to economic
and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was lowered and
the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with some adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit (including interest rate ceilings,
directed credit, portfolio requirements, etc.), thereby reducing the financing
available to the private sector via the official capital market. These
controls encouraged the development of a flourishing extrabank market in which
credit was available albeit at high interest rates and for short maturities.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were moderately successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In 1979, consumer
prices rose by nearly 30%. Nevertheless, real GDP growth remained strong,
rising by about 5% for the year, led by a good performance in services, manu-
facturing and agriculture. However, construction and mining activities
declined. In response to the increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate
demand and the troublesome financial market distortions caused by inflation
and the extended period of monetary restraint, the authorities began in late
1979 to adjust the stabilization program. The rate of peso devaluation was
advanced to increase export incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in
early 1980, credit restraints were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements.
At the same time, interest rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks
and development finance companies - and on the lending therefrom - were



- 4 -
freed from controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures
the authorities further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy,
supported by a new issue of short-term certificates, of not expanding the
subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the
resources captured from private savings for their financing. The authorities
also increased the surveillance and control of the illegal export trade.
10.       The effects of the above measures were not immediately noticeable.
Industrial sector growth slowed during 1980, non-coffee exports weakened and
construction activity, which had fallen sharply in 1979, continued to slacken.
Agricultural output was affected by drought, high incidence of disease and
rising fertilizer costs. Real GDP growth declined to 4% in 1980 and unemploy-
ment started to creep up. With world coffee prices at relatively high levels
for most of the year, in addition to rising domestic gold production and
short-term capital inflows because of high domestic interest rates, Colombia's
balance of payments in 1980 is estimated to have registered an over-all
surplus in the US$1,300 million range. This would maintain net official
reserves at about 12 months imports of goods and non-factor services.
Colombia's consolidated public finances are estimated to have recorded a
slurplus in 1980 for the fourth consecutive year, again mainly because of
increased earnings on foreign exchange holdings and large receipts from the
coffee tax. Inflation continued to be a problem in 1980, however, despite the
slowdown in economic activity, with consumer prices increasing by about 26%
for the year. The major challenge facing the Colombian authorities over the
next few years will be to bring about a reduction in the inflation rate, while
at the same time raising investment to the level required for private sector
expansion.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of increased
productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment, improved
distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will require a
major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inadequate economic
and social infrastructure and insufficient demand. Infrastructure needs are
most pressing in the energy and transportation sectors.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently promulgated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to                -
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional automomy and the uniting of regional growth centers
through improved transport, communication and financial links are directed
towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of the
PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contribut-
irig to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy



- 5 -
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to be
encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and economically disadvantaged groups,
such as workers in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are
singled out for special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated
Rural Development (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) projects, the new direc-
tions given to social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare
of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing attention
from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required deepening
of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning and executing
sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters related to financing
the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out the PIN strategy,
inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or insufficient domestic
resource mobilization would be likely to result in substantial resource mis-
allocation and to delay execution of the strategy. It is essential that this
be avoided. The two most important sectors where additional work is urgently
required are energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1986 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb over 30% of total merchandise exports. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increasing
petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policymaking have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the sector are still weak.  A study initiated in 1980 by the
National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for improvements
in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing decisions have
gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers (primarily
foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude have been raised to
levels which should provide adequate production incentives, and the retail
prices of petroleum products, while still below international levels, have
been increased substantially in excess of world oil price rises. The Govern-
ment has committed itself to raise energy prices to equivalent international



- 6 -
levels as rapidly as politically and economically possible, and a least cost
energy investment program is being prepared. Between October 1978 and October
1980, the price of regular gasoline (less than 80 octane) was raised by 125%,
from US$0.40 to US$0.90 per gallon.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate service could
become a constraint on economic growth, particularly that resulting from
development of the country's vast coal reserves and from agriculture.
The State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance,
rehabilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future invest-
ments to the sector. There is, however, a need for more efficient planning
to ensure that only least cost investments are carried out and that a sound
policy framework for the sector is established to deal effectively with the
problems of intermodal coordination and energy conservation in line with the
Government's energy objectives.
Investment and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development
strategy outlined in the PIN. Over the 1980-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 12% p.a. in real terms. The energy, transpor-
tation and industrial (including mining) sectors are expected to account for
the bulk (60%) of this investment; however, sizeable real increases in invest-
ment are also expected in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture
and industry, water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public
fixed investment is projected to average 9.2% of GDP during the 1980-85
period, and is expected to total Col$1,716 billion (US$22,260 million).
Private investment will have to increase also during this period to provide
the goods and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobilization
effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax system
(excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange
holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through
new taxes and better tax administration and the charges levied for public
services will have to be raised substantially in real terms. Since this effort
is expected   to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the recent growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the country's
resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a turnaround
in the balance of payments from a current account surplus of US$596 million



-7 -
(2.2% of GDP) registered in 1979 to a current account deficit projected to
average US$1,150 million, over the 1980-85 period, equivalent to 2.8% of GDP.
By the end of this period, net official international reserves would have
fallen to a level above four months of imports of goods and services (a level
which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's credit-
worthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real
GDP of 5.5% during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal)
and a levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to 2%
of GDP in 1987 and to 1% by 1990. It is expected, therefore, that the economy
will be able to achieve real GDP growth averaging about 5.5% per annum during
the 1980-85 period. To reach this level of growth, gross domestic investment
will have to expand to about 24% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and
21% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebted-
ness, gross national savings would need to average about 21% of GDP. This is
about the same level of savings achieved in 1978-79, when the terms-of-trade
gains from the coffee boom raised the savings coefficient, but above the level
achieved in the early 1970s.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.0 billion in current prices for the 1980-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$1,670 million. About 31% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to
cover current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are
expected to provide 40% of these requirements, 48% is expected to come from
foreign suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from
private foreign investment. At the end of 1979, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$3.4 billion,
equivalent to 12% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was 25%.
Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline by
bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 30% in 1983,
before falling to about 25% in 1987. The debt service ratio at end of 1979
was 12% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 18% in the
early 1990s and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to rise to about 24% in 1985 from about 13% in 1979. With
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1980-1990 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 91st to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,860.8 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of December 31, 1980, US$2,184.4
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Disburse-
ments have been completed on 54 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$138 million in
1979 and to US$215 million in 1980. The improved performance of social sector
institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual contain-
ment of inflationary pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal



-8-
restraint and the recent Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point
to higher levels of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments
and underwriting commitments of US$63.2 million in 25 enterprises and, as of
December 31, 1980, it held US$17.6 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of December 31,
1980. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of the 34 ongoing
projects.
21.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has emphasized production-oriented programs and activities
which provide social as well as economic benefits. All three loans for
education have been made during this period, and so have 12 of the 14 loans
for industry, 11 of the 13 agricultural loans, one loan for a nutrition project,
two loans for urban development projects and all nine loans for water supply
and sewerage. During the same period, 17 loans were made in the power and
transport sectors, while before 1966, 22 out of a total of 25 loans were made
to these sectors.
22.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY80 consisted of two loans for power
genieration and distribution projects, and one each for a nickel project,
telecommunications, and credit to small-scale industry and to development
finance companies for medium- and large-scale industry, totalling US$518.0
miLlion equivalent.  In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY81
program includes loans for railways, village electrification and power gen-
eration and the already approved loans for hydropower development and rural
roads. Work is also underway on projects for petroleum development and
mining, watershed management, rural development, ports, highways, oil refining,
electric power, agro-industries, fertilizer, water supply and sewerage, basic
education and urban transport for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years.
23.       Proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraphs 12 through 15).
To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the
development of coal mines which hold potential in helping Colombia meet part
of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank proposes to finance further petroleum projects and, for
the first time, become involved in projects which promote the efficient
processing of hydrocarbons. Bank financing in the energy sector would also
assist in strengthening major institutions and in mobilizing external finance
as some of the projects would require substantial co-financing. Other future
loans would finance agriculture and industry to support the Government in its
efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase
and diversify exports. Closely related to those objectives would be the
proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context, the Bank
is assisting the Government in preparing a highway paving and rehabilitation
program in support of the increasing interregional flow of goods and services.



- 9 -
Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at helping
Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the imported
inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of the Government's
efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. Lending for
rural electrification, rural development, water supply and sewerage, basic
education, irrigation and urban transport projects is principally designed
to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex 1.
While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1976-79 period and it is expected that
during the period 1980-85 will decline further to about 35% of external
capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to
social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and rural
development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia. The Governments
of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also
provided concessional financing for social and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND IRRIGATION
Characteristics
25.       Agriculture is a key sector of the Colombian economy from several
points of view. It is important in terms of its participation in GDP (29%)
and employment (30%) and its contribution to exports (two-thirds of merchan-
dise exports in 1978 and 1979). Colombia is self-sufficient in practically
all basic foodstuffs, the major exception being wheat. Climatic conditions
are unstable in the highlands, with periods of drought alternating with periods
of excessive rainfall. Consequently, agricultural production is subject to wide
swings. The record of long-term growth in agriculture, however, is good (4.6%
per annum in the 1970s), driven especially by increased production of commercial
export crops (rice, coffee, bananas, sugar, tobacco, flowers and palm oil)
which have benefitted from intensive research programs.
26.       In 1978, the gross value of production amounted to about Col$266
billion (US$6.8 billion), of which about one-half was provided by crops, 37%
by livestock, and the remainder by forestry, fishing and hunting. Within the
crop subsector, seven basic staples--rice, cassava, plantains, potatoes,
maize, sugarcane for panela (non-centrifugal sugar) and beans--account for
about 45% of the value of production with coffee's share amounting on average
for another 30%. Most of the export crops are grown on large commercial
farms, as is about half of the potato crop. The remaining five major staples
are produced predominantly by small farmers.



- 10 -
Land Use and Distribution
27.       Colombia'a land resources total 114 million hectares, of which
an estimated 17 million are in pasture and nearly 50 million under forest. Of
the remainder, just over a million hectares are under coffee and nearly four
million are in other crops. The 860,000 farms which are of 10 ha or less
amount to over 70% of Colombian farms but cover only 7% of the farm area. On
the other hand, 80% of the land is farmed in the 4% of the units which are
larger than 50 ha. Farms are far more evenly distributed for crops alone--26%
of the land in units up to 10 ha and 44% in units over 50 ha. Livestock farms
are generally large, with nearly 80% of the land in holdings of more than 100
ha and 50% in units of more than 500 ha. Seventy percent of the farms and 75%
of the land is farmed directly or indirectly by its owner, the remainder being
farmed wholly or in part by sharecroppers, renters and squatters.
Institutional Framework and Credit
28.       The formulation and execution of public sector agricultural policy
and programs involve a sizeable number of institutions -- at latest count,
18 in all. The control center of the sector is the Ministry of Agriculture
and within it, the Agricultural Sector Planning Office (OPSA), which has the
responsibility for planning and coordinating sector activities. OPSA main-
tains a close relationship with the agriculture and budget divisions of the
National Planning Department, since they have to approve the sector's
development plan and investment program. The Colombian Agricultural Insti-
tute (ICA) is responsible for agricultural research and extension. ICA
also works with other agencies, particularly credit institutions, that
also provide technical assistance and extension to individual farmers.
The Agricultural Marketing Institute (IDEMA) promotes the rational marketing
of crops and intervenes where necessary, by procuring at home and abroad agri-
cultural commodities to influence prices to the consumer and the producer.
Other key agricultural institutions include: the Agrarian Reform Institute
(INCORA), which carries out programs of land distribution and farm support;
the Natural Resources Institute, (INDERENA), which is mainly responsible for
conserving virgin land, river basins and national forests; and the Colombian
Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement (HIMAT), which is
in charge of irrigation works and associated land improvements in addition to
hydrology and meteorology (paragraphs 36 through 40).
29.       Two principal sources, Caja Agraria (CAJA) and the Fondo Financiero
Agropecuario (FFAP), account for the vast majority of the agricultural credit
in Colombia. FFAP is a rediscount window of the Bank of the Republic (BOR),
from which funds are on-lent by banking institutions to commercial farmers.
FFAP's resources are obtained principally from low yielding bonds which
banking institutions are required to hold in lieu of reserves. While FFAP
provides more than half of the resources on-lent to agriculture, it supplies
funds to less than 3% of the farms--principally medium- and large-scale
enterprises. CAJA, with about 850 branches spread throughout the country,
is the principal source of credit to the small farm sector. CAJA, a mixed
public-private bank (89% Government owned) lends funds raised principally
from savings deposits and FFAP rediscounts. In addition, there are other
sources of agricultural credit such as the Banco Ganadero which finances



- 11 -
principally livestock; the Banco Cafetero which finances coffee and crop
diversification; the Corporacion Financiera de Fomento Agropecuario y
Exportaciones which lends principally for export agriculture and agro-
processing; and INCORA which, through banking institutions, makes available
credit to and reform beneficiaries.
30.       Agricultural credit in Colombia is generally linked to technical
assistance--without an approved plan by an authorized extension agent,
a farmer is denied credit from the major channels. Interest rates are gen-
erally lower for agriculture than for other productive sectors. For FFAP
resources nominal interest rates are currently 21%, though effective rates
are 24-26% as a result of additional charges and the collection of interest
quarterly in advance. CAJA's rates average slightly lower, since a portion
of its lending is directed to small-scale farmers at somewhat lower rates
of interest. Since 1978, effective rates of interest for most agricultural
credit have on average been slightly positive in real terms.
Bank Role in the Sector
31.       Bank lending for agriculture has focussed principally on supervised
agricultural credit and support for irrigation/drainage and colonization
projects which have involved some form of land distribution. Since 1966, the
Bank has made 11 loans totalling US$250.6 million equivalent to Colombia for
agriculture. Five have been for agricultural credit, two for colonization,
three for irrigation/drainage and one to support the first stage of the National
Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI). Bank efforts in agriculture have
aimed at increasing agricultural production, and at strengthening public sector
institutions concerned with agriculture. Most of the projects have focussed on
increasing productivity, incomes and welfare of small farmers. The first irriga-
tion and colonization projects, which were both area specific integrated rural
development projects, have provided valuable experience to the Government for the
development of DRI. The Bank played a major role in initiating this successful
national program targeted at small farmers and has recently appraised a second
stage of this program. DRI, with the support of the IDB and CIDA as well as
the Bank is expected to benefit almost 150,000 small farms by 1987. Future
Bank efforts in the sector would continue to concentrate on institution
building, water resource management and on improving productivity, especially
among small-scale farmers.
Irrigation
32.       Land under irrigation and/or drainage accounts for only about
600,000 ha or roughly 12% of Colombia's cultivated area. Irrigation/drainage
areas are concentrated mainly along the Magdalena and Cauca Rivers in the
central and coastal regions. While climatic conditions and, hence, the require-
ments for irrigation, vary among areas, generally, irrigation is used to
provide an extra crop during a prolonged dry season and to supplement rain
during the remainder of the year. Drainage has been developed primarily in
locations which previously remained flooded or swampy for large portions of
the year.



- 12 -
33.       Irrigation developed rather slowly in Colombia, with a number of
privately developed schemes for sugarcane and then cotton in the initial
40 years of this century. Public sector involvement commenced in the 1940s
and was spurred in conjunction with the land reform program during the 1960s.
Today, about 80% of irrigation occurs in schemes developed and managed by
private farmers, the vast majority of whom are highly productive large-scale
entrepreneurs. The public schemes by contrast have benefitted a variety of
farms, the majority of which are small-scale (up to 5 ha). Land reform
beneficiaries account for about one-third of the approximately 20,000 farmers
in such districts.
34.       Rice is by far the most important irrigated crop, accounting for
more than 60% of the land under irrigation. From a highland, rain-fed small
farm crop, rice production became an irrigated commercial operation--about 90%
of rice production is now grown under irrigated conditions. Yields are high
by any standards, averaging nationally five tons/ha/crop. Increased rice
production was accompanied by a major change in consumption: between 1950-54
and 1970-74, rice consumption per capita doubled to about 50 kg per annum and
has replaced corn as the major grain in the Colombian diet. Other irrigated
crops include sugarcane, bananas, plantain, cotton, maize, sorghum, soybeans,
vegetables, fruits, flowers and pasture.
35.       Colombia possesses potential for expanding significantly its
irrigation and for reclaiming seasonally flooded land with drainage. Pre-
feasibility and feasibility studies have already been conducted for projects
involving more than 200,000 ha and it is estimated that another two to three
million hectares can be feasibly irrigated and/or drained. Although the
PIN has noted the benefits of expanding the area under irrigation and has
endorsed the use of credit channels to encourage development of private
irrigation schemes, it places high priority on improving efficiency and
rehabilitating existing publicly financed and managed irrigation districts,
Some of the 20 public sector districts built since 1940 have never been
fully completed and even those which are fairly efficient require improve-
ment because they have been poorly maintained. The proposed project would
support this objective by rehabilitating and improving maintenance in six
irrigation and two drainage districts.
The Borrower - HIMAT
36.       Between 1962 and 1976, public sector irrigation and drainage
investments were the responsibility of INCORA and carried out in conjunction
with land reform. INCORA developed several irrigation/drainage schemes, but,
as a result of declining political support for agrarian reform and INCORA,
management and maintenance of the irrigation districts grew weak.  Construction
and rehabilitation programs were delayed; funds were not made available for
equipment replacement; collections of water charges and payments for invest-
ments were inadequate, and other agencies did not provide adequate supporting
services, e.g., for credit and training. In addition, INCORA's efforts in
irrigation were hindered by private farmers who viewed its staff suspiciously
and feared that they would be forced to sell their land.



- 13 -
37.       In an effort to stimulate irrigation and to separate its develop-
ment from that of land reform, the Government established HIMAT in 1976 to
take charge of public sector activities in irrigation and drainage. INCORA's
functions and personnel related to irrigation and drainage were shifted to
HIMAT. Like INCORA, HIMAT is an autonomous public entity attached to the
Ministry of Agriculture, with a Board of Directors composed largely of repre-
sentatives of various public sector institutions. Its General Manager is
appointed by the President of the Republic and he is supported by an adequate
technical staff in various disciplines.
38.       HIMAT has obtained approximately 83% of its revenues from Government
transfers, with the rest emanating largely from water charges to farmers in
the irrigation and drainage districts. On average, HIMAT's tariffs cover
roughly one-half of the direct costs of operating and maintaining the dis-
tricts. By project completion, this situation is expected to be changed;
districts to be rehabilitated would pay for all operating and maintenance
costs plus a portion if not all of the investment costs under the project.
39.       Although the proposed loan would be the first to HIMAT, the entity
has been participating in two on-going Bank projects. After some initial
delay, HIMAT has performed satisfactorily in the Cordoba Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (1163-CO), having managed efficiently civil works for drainage,
flood protection, roads and bridges. The Second Atlantico Project (Loan
849-CO) encountered serious technical and social problems prior to HIMAT's
creation and involvement. HIMAT, with Bank encouragement, is employing
consultants to determine an appropriate engineering solution to the design
errors made years ago.
40.       In its short life, HIMAT has developed into a responsible technical
agency. Perhaps HIMAT's major shortcoming is its concentration on day to day
management of the irrigation areas to the exclusion of long term planning.
Under the proposed project, therefore, steps would be taken to develop
HIMAT's appraisal and supervisory capacity as well as the capability of users
to manage their own districts, so that HIMAT can concentrate on planning and
providing for an orderly expansion of irrigation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
41.       The project was prepared by HIMAT with the assistance of three
FAO-CP missions. It was appraised in September/October 1980. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. in April 1981, with a Colombian delegation led
by Messrs. Armando Olarte Reyes and Humberto Arias Pabon, Director of External
Credit of the Ministry of Finance and General Manager of HIMAT, respectively.
42.       The principal objective of the project is to prevent deterioration
and prolong the useful life of existing physical infrastructure in six irriga-
tion and two drainage districts covering 36,000 ha through a program of
rehabilitation and improved maintenance. In addition, the project would
maximize the use of existing investments and water by expanding the facilities



- 14 -
to a further 11,000 ha. The project also aims at: (a) promoting increased
efficiency in the use of water and farm inputs, primarily through increased
volumetric water charges and the introduction of basin irrigation for rice
cultivation; (b) introducing improved crop and livestock farming practices
and increasing yields; (c) strengthening HIMAT's capacity to appraise and
supervise irrigation projects and to manage water; (d) encouraging the district
farmers to assume increased responsibility for managing districts themselves;
and (e) preparing a second phase project to rehabilitate additional irrigation
districts.
Project Description
43.       The project provides for:
(a) the design and construction of numerous small rehabilitation
works in all of the eight districts;
(b) the replacement of obsolete equipment for operation and main-
tenance;
(c) technical assistance, demonstration plots and credit for
improving crop and livestock management practice and for rice basin
cultivation;
(d) training of technical personnel in water management and extension
activities and representatives of user associations in management
and accounting; and
(e) consulting services for preparing feasibility studies, designing
a second phase project, and initiating a monitoring and evaluation
program.
44.       The project is expected to be carried out over a five-year period.
The vast majority of consulting services for engineering designs, agricultural
technical assistance and preparation of the second phase project would be procured
locally. About 9 man-months of foreign consulting would be contracted in specific
engineering disciplines, monitoring and evaluation, and cattle improvement.
Engineering designs for civil works to be carried out during the first year of
execution have been largely completed. Since the works are small and dispersed,
the remaining designs would be prepared gradually during the project period.
Project Areas
45.       The eight districts were chosen among 15 based on their state
of readiness, estimated economic rate of return and urgency of rehabilitation.
They are located in seven different departments (Putumayo, Huila, Tolima,
Valle, Boyaca, Santander and Norte de Santander), vary significantly in
altitude, soil and climate.  Four of the districts (Rio Recio, El Juncal and
neighboring San Alfonso and Zulia) are rice growing areas, while the two
drainage districts (Sibundoy in the extreme South and Lebrija in the North-
Central region) have major livestock components and miscellaneous rain fed



- 15 -
crops. Soybeans, cotton, sorghum and grapes are important crops in R.U.T.
(Roldanillo, La Union and Toro Irrigation District); Samaca is a major producer
of vegetables along with wheat and potatoes. In total, the districts cover
76,000 ha, of which 47,000 ha would be fully equipped for irrigation and/or
drainage at project completion.
46.       The distribution of land also varies substantially among districts:
in Samaca, 70% of the land is made up of plots of less than 10 ha, while in
Rio Recio over 80% of the land is held by farmers with more than 50 ha. In
the district with the most equal land distribution, there are no previous land
reform beneficiaries, while in three others the vast majority are farmers who
benefitted from the agrarian reform program. The average holding for all
irrigation areas is 9 ha, though in one the average is 40 ha. The two drainage
districts also have differing land use and tenure patterns. In total, land
reform recipients account for 30% of the beneficiaries and 37% of the land
area.
47.       In Rio Recio and Samaca, water is obtained from small dams; in Zulia
through a diversion weir; in San Alfonso, from a river intake by gravity; and
in El Juncal and R.U.T. by pumping from Colombia's two most important rivers,
the Magdalena and Cauca, respectively. In three of the six irrigation dis-
tricts, water is in short supply and therefore rationed. In two rice districts,
efforts to level land and save up to 40% of water per hectare along with
increased volumetric water charges are expected to result in more efficient
utilization of the available water supply. In the third district, Samaca, the
storage capacity of the existing dam would be increased by 70% to five million
cubic meters. As a result of the project, cropping intensity would be increased
on average from 123% to 176% in irrigation districts and from 110% to 122% in
the drainage districts.
Costs and Financing
48.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$86 million equiva-
lent of which US$37 million equivalent (43%) correspond to the foreign exchange
costs. Since final engineering designs for the latter years of the project
have not yet been prepared, physical contingencies for civil works of 15% have
been included. Price contingencies amount to 21% of base costs and are based
on forecasts of yearly domestic and international price increases.
49.       The proposed Bank loan of US$37 million would cover the estimated
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. Local costs would be financed
as follows: approximately US$17.4 million equivalent (or 20% of project
costs) would be financed by the banking system, including FFAP, US$17.4
million equivalent (or 20% of project cost) by HIMAT from Government budget-
ary transfers; US$14.5 million equivalent (or 17% of project costs) by
beneficiaries. A breakdown of project costs and financing is presented in
the Loan and Project Summary.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Contracts for equipment and vehicles, estimated to cost about US$11.2
million equivalent would be procured under international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for items such as motorcycles,
topographic, office and workshop equipment, and small mobile pumps, each not
exceeding US$50,000, and in aggregate no greater than US$500,000 equivalent,
would be eligible for procurement by quotation from at least three suppliers
or manufacturers. Civil works contracts would be relatively small, numerous
and dispersed and unlikely to attract international firms. They would be
procured through acceptable local competitive bidding procedures. Procurement
for civil works contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$200,000 would
receive prior review and approval by the Bank. Contracts for consulting
services would be awarded on terms and conditions to firms or individuals
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02
of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.       Disbursements would be made for 100% of the foreign expenditures
for equipment, vehicles, and foreign consultants and training, 90% of expen-
ditures for locally procured equipment and 69% of expenditures for civil works
and local consultants and training. In order to advance work on engineering
designs and the large amount of small civil works, contracts for a total not
exceeding US$400,000 equivalent would be eligible for retroactive financing.
52.       In an effort to facilitate rapid project execution, a working fund
would be established with US$3 million equivalent to cover about six months of
expenditures for civil works and local consulting and training (but not direct
foreign exchange expenditures). The establishment of a special account for
such a fund and the approval by the Government of the release of US$1 million
equivalent would be a condition of disbursement of US$2 million equivalent
from the Loan Account to the fund (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
In order to allow for the necessary time to complete the budgetary process,
the Government would have up to 30 days to deposit the monies in the special
account. Subsequent disbursements to replenish the fund would be carried out
according to standard Bank procedures, but provided that the Government has
already approved the release of HIMAT's share of the replenishment (Section
2.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Every six months, the Government, the
Bank and HIMAT would review the operation and size of the fund and agree on
any necessary changes (Section 2.03(f) and Part 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the
draft Loan Agreement).  As required by Colombian law, all project expenditures
would be subject to ex-ante control and approval of the Controller General's
staff, but in any case they would also be subject to standard reviews by the
Bank. The above procedure is expected to speed the execution of the project
and aid in completing loan disbursements by June 30, 1988.
Project Organization and Execution
53.       HIMAT would be responsible for carrying out the project.  All civil
works and most technical assistance, studies, designs and engineering super-
vision would be contracted to firms and individuals. HIMAT is sufficiently
staffed to carry out some of the engineering work and to supervise the various



- 17 -
contracts efficiently. Training and technical assistance would be provided
to HIMAT on new water management techniques and project appraisal. In order
to aid project execution, as condition of effectiveness, HIMAT would set
up a project coordination unit with duties and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank and assign a senior HIMAT staff member to be full time project
coordinator (Sections 3.06 and 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
54.       Credit for incremental on-farm investment and land leveling would be
provided through the banking system and financed entirely with local resources.
The medium- and large-scale farmers in the districts generally have little
difficulty obtaining their requirements through normal banking channels. At
times, however, small-scale farmers (below 10 ha in irrigated areas) who lack
the financial capacity to contract technical assistance have limited access to
credit. The project, therefore, includes the necessary extension services:
HIMAT would contract the expertise, in accordance with the requirements of
FFAP, from institutions such as the Federation of Rice Growers (FEDEARROZ),
under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). These services would be provided gratis to small-scale farmers--
defined as those with assets of less than US$30,000 equivalent who derive at
least 70% of their income from farming. The Government would ensure that
the necessary credit would be made available by FFAP through financial inter-
mediaries (Section 3.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). FFAP has already
committed itself to HIMAT to accept the proposed technical assistance to be
provided under the project as a basis for farmers to obtain credit for on
farm investments and land leveling. Since farmers in the irrigation areas
are generally better than average credit risks, they are expected to be able
to meet their credit needs.
Production, Marketing and Financial Analysis
55.       The annual value of incremental production generated by the project,
about US$35 million equivalent in 1980 pesos, is expected to be distributed
among a variety of crops (including rice, vegetables, soybeans, sorghum,
potatoes, peas, cotton, grapes, wheat) and livestock products. Consequently,
the incremental production of each individual commodity is expected to be
small relative to total production nationally and, with the possible exception
of rice and soybeans, on a regional basis as well, and would be insufficient
in itself to affect the price of any of them. None of the commodities is
expected to face demand constraints and marketing channels are adequate to
absorb the increased production.  Increased rice production which constitutes
nearly one-half of the value of incremental output under the project, would
result in higher exports, while soybeans, wheat and milk production would
substitute for imports.
56.       Financial rates of return for eleven farm investment models vary
between 31% and above 100% in constant 1980 prices, demonstrating that in all
cases, the private returns to farmers are expected to be substantial. Per
capita incomes would also be raised substantially, according to the models
from US$67 to US$1,000 per capita without the project to US$700 to US$2,700
in constant 1980 prices with the project. The present average per capita
income of project beneficiaries is estimated at US$530 rising to an estimated



- 18 -
US$1,330 at full development. Average projected income levels compare favor-
ably with the 1980 national average per capita income level of US$1,010 and
the estimated relative poverty level of US$329 per capita. Clearly, however,
some of the very small farmers in each of the districts will remain below the
poverty level, though in far better condition than without the project.
Water Charges, Cost Recovery and District Independence
57.       In each of the irrigation districts, HIMAT levies a fixed per
hectare charge as well as a volumetric tariff based on water use. The tariffs
are in general low, though in three of the six districts the collections have
covered the direct operation and maintenance expenditures (O&M) actually
incurred. No allowance, however, is made for major repairs or equipment
replacement. The richest district (Rio Recio) with the lowest tariffs
recovered 168% of 1979 O&M and had a 98% collection ratio. In irrigation
areas, generally, collection ratios (percentage collected of amount billed)
are high, in part because HIMAT can and will shut off the tap, if beneficiaries
fail to pay.
58.       In the two drainage districts, however, the situation is quite
different. The system in both districts are only partially complete; but even
for the portions completed, collections have been lax. In Sibundoy, no
charges have been levied thus far, and in the second, Lebrija, the collection
ratio fell to 20% in 1979. In Sibundoy, the practice is to be reversed, while
in Lebrija the situation is in part a reflection of poor service and inadequate
billing procedures. HIMAT is convinced that once rehabilitation works are
initiated and billing improved, users will begin paying water charges on a
timely basis and, with Lebrija in mind, has provided assurances that an 80%
collection ratio will be maintained in each district beginning 1981. If in
any district such percentage is not achieved, according to an audited report
to be furnished to the Bank by April 30 of each year beginning 1982, then
HIMAT and the Bank will exchange views on the reasons for the failure to
reach 80% collections and agree on actions to be taken to collect the charges.
If no agreement is reached or a justification, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the failure has not been provided, then, after notice by the Bank, HIMAT will
refrain from using funds from the special account (paragraph 52) for civil
works in that district (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). With this
provision it is expected that HIMAT will improve its collection record in the
two problem districts.
59.       The general policy on cost recovery followed by the Government
corresponds closely to that generally endorsed the Bank; namely, farmers who
benefit from the proposed public investments should, in general, pay for them.
Given the high returns to farmers from project investments, a high rate of
cost recovery can be expected. Based on an analysis of farmers' capacity to
pay once expected project benefits are realized, it is estimated that in five
districts all or nearly all of the investment costs will be recoverable with
farmers retaining a large share of the project's net benefit. For the purposes
of recovering investments, users would pay for equipment over ten years at
the market rate of interest for agricultural credit (including insurance)
and for civil works over 15 years, generally, at the same interest rate. In
the remaining three districts, farmers would have a more limited capacity to
pay, and only O&M plus a small portion of investment costs would be recoverable.



- 19 -
60.       The structure of tariffs as they currently stand does not adequately
reflect the need to conserve water and promote more use of existing facilities.
HIMAT, therefore, in consultation with the Bank has developed a set of princi-
ples for establishing the level and structure of tariffs in each district,
which include, inter alia, the following objectives:
(a) The level of charges would be set to recover the entire cost
of investments under the project as well as the O&M, subject
to the farmer's financial capacity to pay.
(b) In irrigation districts where water supply is limited, the
structure of tariffs would be set to encourage water conservation.
(c) In districts where farmers are not making adequate use of existing
infrastructure, tariffs would be set to encourage such use.
(d) An automatic mechanism for adjusting charges to take account
of increasing O&M would be incorporated into the system.
Assurances have been provided that, by January 1, 1982, HIMAT would establish
a schedule of water charges based on a system incorporating the above objectives
and satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       In two irrigation districts which are not a part of the project,
HIMAT has handed over management of the districts to farmers' users associa-
tions. The experience has been positive and the associations have apparently
operated the district efficiently. In both cases the districts are financially
self-sufficient. HIMAT intends to encourage other districts to manage increas-
ingly their own affairs. In order to further this effort, HIMAT would develop
programs, including training of user association representatives, and would
submit to the Bank a plan of action for transferring part or all district
ment responsibility to the beneficiaries of the project, and promptly thereafter
put it into effect (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       A major goal of the proposed project is to ensure that the management
of the districts is effective enough to preclude the need for a similar project
for the same districts 15 or 20 years from now. Project provision of increased
user responsibility for paying for and managing their own districts as well as
training for both HIMAT and users in water management techniques should
provide a basis for the long run viability of the districts. Nevertheless,
without adequate equipment--the situation which has prevailed over the past
decade--canals can be expected to silt up, and infrastructure generally, to
deteriorate. Consequently, HIMAT has provided assurances that it would
make budgetary provisions sufficient to meet the costs of replacing machinery
and equipment promptly when necessary (Section 4.03(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The above provision would remain in effect beyond the project
period.



- 20 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
63.       The project would increase productivity, employment and incomes
on about 4,700 farms, 30% of which are farmed by land reform beneficiaries.
It would also expand agricultural production significantly and contribute
to export growth and import reduction in roughly equal amounts. The project
would generate the equivalent of about 5,000 additional jobs, of which only an
estimated 1,000 would be filled by family labor, thereby increasing employment
opportunities. Once the full benefits were realized, incomes of farm family
beneficiaries would be on average more than double those without the project,
with the vast majority living above the poverty level.
64.       The economic rate of return calculated on 98% of project costs
(i.e., excluding the Phase II studies) is estimated to exceed 50%. Economic
rates of return computed for each of the eight districts range between 18% for
one of the drainage districts (Sibundoy) to 50% or greater for five of the
districts. The calculations are based on financial costs which are converted
to economic costs on the basis, where appropriate, of border prices and an
estimated shadow price of labor. The high returns result principally from the
large sunken investment in the districts as well as the increased cropping
intensity and land to be brought under irrigation or drainage for relatively
small investments in infrastructure and land levelling. Sensitivity analysis
indicates that for the project as a whole a 126% increase in costs or a 56%
reduction in benefits would bring the rate of return below the opportunity cost
of capital estimated for Colombia (11%). With regard to the individual districts,
Sibundoy is the only one for which sensitivity analysis indicates some risk: a
25% increase in costs or 20% decrease in benefits results in a return below 11%.
However, if the estimated economic price for fresh milk (the principal commodity
produced in the district) were reduced by 20%, i.e., to about the current
estimated economic price of reconstituted milk, the rate of return remains an
acceptable 13%. The risks of a return lower than 11% are small, and are well
worth taking since Sibundoy is by far the poorest district populated by an
indigenous tribal group.
65.       Project risks relate principally to potential farmer reluctance to
obtain credit or to adopt new technologies. The project has built in various
incentives--demonstration plots, technical assistance and increased access
to credit, training programs--as well as increased water charges appropriately
adapted to each district to help convince the farmers of the utility of
adopting and investing in the new techniques. These risks are thus expected
to be minimal and pale in front of the high project returns.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and HIMAT, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and
the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 21 -
67.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A condition of effectiveness would be that HIMAT has established
a project coordination unit with duties and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank and has assigned a senior staff member to be full time project
coordinator (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Conditions of dis-
bursement would be that:
(a)  For the advance of the working fund, that the fund had been
established and that the Government had approved the transfer
of its corresponding share (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement); and
(b) For subsequent replenishments to the fund, that the Government,
the Bank and HIMAT had reached agreement on the size of the
fund for the subsequent period and that the Government had approved
the transfer of its corresponding share (Part 4(b) of Schedule 1
and Section 2.03(c) and (f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 29, 1981
Washington, D.C.



AMNE I
- 22 -                                               Page 1of 5
_    CoZSthA  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEFGE0
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. EN._)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
ToTAL           1138.9
AGRICULTURAL     230.6                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AHERICA & CARIBOEAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$1                 250.0       400.0    1010.0                   1562.9                   2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     491.0       606.0     700.0                  1055.9                   1641..4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR. (MILLIONS)    15.8        21.3      25.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2        59.8      68.3                    63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      39.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        57.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       14.0        19.0      22.0                    28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0     111.0                    81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         47.0        46.8      40.7                    41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         50.0        50.5      56.3                    54.7                     61. 1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.7       3.0                     3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0       2.3                     2.7                       1.6
URBAN                              6.O0c       5.2       3.9                     4. 1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         37.0      31.0                    34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.0        10.0       8.0                     8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.2       1.8                     2.5                       1. 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115.4     142.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..      35.9
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0        99.0    120.0                    106.9                    103.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   97.0        88.0     102.0                   107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          54.0        48.0      52.0                    65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        24.0      26.0                    33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     17.0        13.0       9.0                     8.4                       4.3
HEALTH                                                                                                        6.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0         58.5      62.0                    63. 1                    67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER                                                        66.5                     55.9
THOUSAND)                                       98.OJd
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)                                               64.0                    65. 9
TOTAL                                         63.0                              80.4
URBAN                               .            .      73.0                    80.4
RURAL                               ..          ..      46.0                    46.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         47.0      48.0                    62.3
URBAN                               ..        75. 0     73.0                    79.4
RURAL                               ..         8. 0     13. 0                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0    1970.0                  1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3740.0      2040.0    1250.0                  1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            363.0       449.0     620.0                   480.3                     289.7
URBAN
RURAL
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0      25.0                      ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE ST2E OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.7/d
URBAN                               .          5.5/d
RURAL                               ..         5.91d
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.8/d      .
URBAN                               ..         1. 6/d
RURAL                               ..         2.4/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             47. 0/e     58. 1/d
URBAN                             83. oT      87.5        .--
RURAL                              8.0/e      13.2/d



Annex I
Page 2 of S
COLOM31A - SOCIAL 'NDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT EST-MATZ)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUS TED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRDLIARY:    TOTAL                  77. 0       103.0      103.0                     99. 7                     105.9
MALE                  77. 0       101.0      100.0                     101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                77.0        105.0      105.0                     99.4                      103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         24.0       39.0                     34.4                       64.0
MALE                  13.0         24.0       39.0                      33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                11.0         24.0       40.0                     34.7                    * 56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  31.0/f         21. 0      17.0                      38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0      30.0                      30.5                       29.4
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0       19.0                     14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         73. 0      81.0                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER `HOUSANID
POPULATION                           7.0         11.0      18.4                      43.0                       54.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TIOUSAND
POPULATION                         124.0        100.0     107.0                     245.3                      192. 2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9. 0        3 7. 0    64.0                      44. 2                     114. 5
NLEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TlhOUSAND POPULATION                  56.0           *        69.0                     63. 3                      93. 0
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        4. 1                                                5.. s.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4726.5       6353.3    8174.0                        -
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    18.9         24.6      25.0                      22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51. 4        37.9       30.0                     37. 1                      37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0      23.0                      23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.6         29.7       29.7                     31.5                       40.9
MALE                                  49.8         44.9       44.7                     48.9                       55.9
FEMALE                                11.6         14.6       14.6                     14.0                       26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1. 7       1.4                       1.4                       1. O
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF FOUSEHOLDS   41.2/e.g    31.9/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/eLg    60.1/x 
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. 1/e.t       3. 51       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF FOUSEHOLDS    6.8/e.R    10. 1_/
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIHATED ABSOLIITE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (05 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     214. 0
RtRAL                                 ..           ..      197.0                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      267.0                    474.0
RURAL                                 * -                  122.0                    332.5                      385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       34.0
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc    951-64;  Ld 1973;  /a :964;  /f Including teacher training at the third level;  /a Economically active
population.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979.
October, 1980



-24 -
ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCAIL. INIICATOhtS
Nohe-   Although the d-t  are draw   foo   orosgnally judged the eat-toitiead reliable, it should al- ha toed  that they sap nothoIner-
nationaly  onepaahit heacac ofthe lac  of atedaded dtnittead  --copte ned by lift ertt oruiresin oleng  the lace.  The date are, none-
th.l-e., -net1 to descibe ordr-  of te ld.indi-natetrads, aed ohesoter-e  -taniti  nafo  diffarenoe  b--etcou                                gra
Toe t-fnrits   inop  ant i1' it stn           -ntygtu  nt the tub) -t countey and (2) atutntgnu                    ih ateenhat hitheeera.itn   ha   h    oorlru
at the sue tcoutry InonPtc for 'cpto                -plus Oill  ooraa"gop nh-er  rfiddle itnom   Noetf Afria and Middle feet" in  hionat haena   fnr e
bee_et _fteconrr   It a  r_p  a  Iotsa   htidoir.t hoetnerwnarage  ng oettie   eog the. itdi--lor  dapards  steeaiaIro
dat  sed ia -on  -.ifo-   caji-n  sat he aearni-a  in rtlat log anre   t..ot  indinentr toaohr_ha                            nree   r   tyuau   tthnsa it githa vau
Of one indloa-or at ai oln  ane.  tI  oouniry and r-f--nr  groups..                                          te.~ _            _e   ,    l          fjJ                       ,
LADIt  AZAn Inhused aqAn.)                                                                       'ousnoarhsaa-ouaonttaacsmartpatong o-
Totl   toalaunao   cot  anplatg  an  ana  od  nlndt.ptll natene             .t .           slotas    ulfa    rsaadIl  tola   nvrbybrt
for oeps.  enturs. noket ad ko,han garda.. _r to lie tallow; 19f7 deta.               saeadf        -l rduate nea.Preoica  nuss   noanaen    usa
GNP PER CPITA ~US) - GNP  ., -pi,. t        _lkt pl-, -1-                FPseslti_a oat  .teeita1 Bed    toa,uban, and ral-   - Pnpaianian  (tota.1
oulated by   -1 sae .onei-n s-thod Os borld tank Atlas  ft977-79 heats); 19601                    tb,eclal  ind -uhli adi,ddb pr hnat   generltid apeciloa  heep itaIbadre
lgI,ad  tAhdt.hshilitsti-nnntrs    tnsital  are eteshiahe.n   paemaaertly staffed
hy at leas1:t ana physiota.  iEtshliahsr.nte  prenidiag ptincipalitoast-dia
gtftln Cntlylfla  PinCAPIA -atnule  oneuoio   o   otaril  nag   looalhsre   rea o   rlded.  lura  hospates, h--ve, ine1ode health an -sdioa1
anI'   nn.pnoea,ntrlseed  pr-   ula nd1gahem                                      lc             otrset  em tely staffed hpy   phyaitnin  (hut by A madiesi.. asistat,
eri.tly) In kcloran  at tel_       qien  per n-pina; 19ff, 1970, and 19798ure m1M                       1Idwipfe_,st,.) ahth offee  spain  at euI-  ed praid,
POPUIATION LID VITAI, ST-kTIS'-'ICS                                       tl. ~~ai- Inude WHit peiti-pl genee  and  prnslalind bshta...           se. rura
Total Po...atoi-  reid-teet failfline        As tof July 1; l9hi, 1970, sad 1978               hdslsintel re ... iaa  Bed -    - focal number of.. adneta  no-r-,ty         ag
d.n.                                                                                           fe  beepitel:ls 11lidivIded hp  The tuah t n    f h da.i.i.        ld.-
diftfnet detti-tinu - f urban aneI  anY "f'-n   _p-bailily nO dutn                        HUSN
.E   ..gonuotnes; 1961, 191, adI 179 data.                                                Avrg   ies nf Baeadfran    e   es                      l-tnl   ra,adrrl
Panulenlon frot att-lobnt                                            y    9,,           A household onsinen   a.ru.f niiuleh    hr  ilolg   In'ter
hanolanionIn fear 101 - Currnt pnpnlaion projetton   ar  hae_oi     If             n  thei   aeaes bbA -dre  lndgo nay or any ,ntb   oldd
ttlpopulation by age and sea and thair notlitp and fo ity  rae.                          tehts l   a  stitefI purnaea
Intlentlun pannenron Inn e_teit    aes1     nne  ofuea        tteasnm              laeth  hounber  I.,roo  earro-ualubn   r   ua 
fig life e            Ionno    tht bit  inru in    cutyh        e  oa  ita    .. Aoose       ero  parbn  oa   onI   l   ra,o    ua   nuidcnAni ona
Ite     o   analf    n  ott    thleo        t"P.Cyer.fI   ae                      dwelligs p rre.Peotta-p  L-nelllng- -.  daotp               urtaycut   n
eatre  ford faroIp   stIR                              7 tn  tre   enlsasute  danlMe in-    ennuied.  -parts.         .
and fertIlIty  trends lo  projtt.ety Purposes,    oht   ..  g.hsb                       f tota  l. uho, and rural dwellings  _epetr-ly.
tbaI  ...t. rate  IsoeI note death  at, and also thege .trutuer-
nalesconsiant.  ThIs inuchtleved onlry-etta   f_reileynee  d              ...n tO      EUAdTION  etlnnttt
the tell-eotent lana  ot .e.iut  reprtdn-iot nut, ahen each gent.i..riar                                i..- oal  sl   -an  irsal      lne   total  nuts and tenal
uf -ottrpluna  itself nu...eir.  Thea  -ttt...srr peyelatioestasae- enleant of all ag.esls the primar,y 1era  as Paronnga   -t reptnie
in  h  ybea_  2101, ad  h  rte o          ln   afntilityraetrelan-                             yersh         "_ aduse   tadiffeen Ingb,        fprmr  eiducation;6for
ib. isl ... ed -  h.  eel~h-  -ibibet  p.~IcountrIes.1  nllb univrel.  edncai-e eurl.eent -sy sacre d lI0P-par..In
leanetainun        -ycnltio. snsld-lepn   bnsaiws    e siw                                      stast  pupil.siare bele  an about the off icilalsetae
Perulation Ittoslir                                                       sduoetteel n.. ulrenan  least tour yeara ofapr d Prtsr   esrnin
Per en. ko. -  id-yea    nualo    e   qar   l et   (Ill hattares) af                             pnavidetgeerl                        t-aiol,nnaher  -nsini   instru "Ian   fo  pp
tonul ae.cnlya12t17yasoe scrrendoston_ sae  eeal
Pen_ .  o   aiclnelland - Computed us shots for sgrlu1t-1e land                                  rnciu2,ssd.g                                .s.id.             1l.1! P11Y
Popluo  Agas canotte freotu) - Chtldyan  f-l4 years)  wnktsg-age  711-                           lanlda  echnn..       -nd-tie, o  ohe   proram   ni-heart   edp
64 years), end ratlyad (65 years and nner) a   ecnifso id-yea  papa-                             dently or a 'h prn- n     nf aro-dar   ntttna
leten; 1yAl, 1970, and CtPt'lt.                                                              Pu-nahrrto-Prenry  snd seodryTt                               tdensttoldi
paculnle  croth Estn lotocot) - tott1 - Aanu1 grewh raes nf ntal mid-                             primry and n--nden  levels divIded by unbent nI teatb-ste.tho
ylln  "poputints fan 19111-6c,19h1          ad 1970-78.onrawdn leea
ypslanioe  Ir_a   tate (acrc      ra   - Annul groth rate  of urban pays-                        Au ttiraysa en tt-lte ntdlt)htnrdedto
1lti... fon 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                     ad.tepIroniag   of (pn.tel -adLt-ppu-nu  a5ed1  ears and oner
,Inuallrnt1 Rlata  (r-rub--ndl -  n-1a Iito   births per thousand of aid-yearpplt-.,d1                                                                           ~
populuti_r;  Ih , 191, end 197t lute.                                                     CONSUMPlTION
Cruda1h   .   .I,E                  .t hsa..lan    (rrbuadf  - Annua l-detb  Per thousan.d of mid-year  Passente  Care (ntibaad nenuletinl - Pa-ceene   -tar   -oaptss   o
least eeon     Rl ate-ovA-egt nuber of duubtrh eom..                  ai  hea  It                  ilitar  vhIcle..
he   nma   ereuto falo   I   he eaperen        prat    daas  it7 itfe-            ldi      .eetner  (ear thousan.d parulantor) - Aill nypsa of r ttsfan ndt,
tilIty rts    sal  fIve-ya  aneae  edio  in 1961, 191,7 nd0                   9P               hewed-nests n  gesenel yahi. pen lthused of ppltln    nlue                     i-
faily Planitgn- A-entars. Annual  fnthussndsl - dA-..I nuber of ...eptlnar                       _e d reciver  It o_unties atd in peers what neituin    trdi.as
of brn-o.Unrl1 devIces under ...pi-  of  atieta.l family planateg progam                    sat ineff-ni; data forresa  yar  sm   o  b   npral   itesa
Panily PI'Aowtna--lr    (antof neleid n-sn  - P.arn...ago osaied                                 ne..r.   sbniead lloesi:;    11  y.1    e                 1
ane   f oh1ld-hbsr.. a, ge (1-44 y-tro  aheat  htb- dn_alletuc   to                     IV     ..eciven   (faP hsadlnlt )-clrttaafrbadatt
al__ried n_ma  in  u_t age gt_np.                                                            geaa.ult  e              .huad   pop..n.  n   rclu           bnlmeced II  eentr
Iuad se  n F   ud ar-dntfoh err Cedibt  end697o1tata nutrent  Ieg    nfat                     Clean-unnte nen1edPnn  ret Carita tpll  e n,::. p fer-geed)    enh-   the  -unber o
anporna, ad obangesin stool.art supples sanl-a  animl.ted, seds
le   l. . dd    Aggtgte pt.d.,ti-   farmd  nr-h                                        nd-napiyadbu  sttain htssitr,  tuent,  at
,tle..I..... usdpn-od-   protas itag,ae  losses190,.. In 9i7tbula . tetare                     tini.tto .Is .igth            t osrindiocudtianaesnoeprbr Ie, 197  sad_
_eact.nr    _itundby ft  ned  n  hyiongielnetat tO  ne.ptmdt anna-                         l       ift   -ita.
fun nIl.:.    tuant ki.u natelhd byple ItI,1etdr  1 an ejui dun                      andelctinity,           plryedgs  sperran    f  oa  lbr  ot;t9l
qutrowonet                                                              1911 aad 1911 data.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-l     l    .    . tb    190,19;  .
olnrce    tihog-ad  ly  toa  poicnb      arda1adl Pgrss f,  antsa  and1               Priotate  gen   (rrrtf .            o t     aeanfnle-etooelno
oue  pnri,oftlt   I  nn  aeldhidtntpoti.Ths  sad-                                      anity   at  aecopte   s  nel   wa,ad  alalbo   oreu
ho...ehldpotIn as61 at  ao19 for the7nnld, prpsdbfi .hhihr                                    etnngsn    aa,nasadtnl   oplto    falagssycic
lolIPcd  uery    9h-f,  91  adIAP   at.                                               Ib,  II,en  111lae   Thebta  r f.lCe  1960tt1970tlntra97rlectt
yar tepina  rnta it  uPl . . atnbnd  ua   Prctai  aupl2f  ad P-                          ar-a  enr-otur  c-  the. fcplaetot. ca1              tIernd bto rn-
ebls f.   11 1-1li- es-bli ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      nataare fby      ntionld.crcen
ChIld faaee I-b) teotaliny leer (tar ibnuaacdf - unnoel deaths per thone and to  to                                             feantenet  Pahinif-ron
Wtriedan  derIvdS.,y Iron 65 lIfe 0chle d lIh77 dlPO ud9Pde.                              gttIluiI le  .   h                               L
ft.tei. -Pplyrcenaa  o  Pnvea acos  Iethtttat  ed - ttd i- tolrdytoh
blalTPe                                                                    a prrnest,nIoh~~~__ e stf lper eni    ,p.,.eati.. p    droenctul   65ne-t  prtr
athilot;d      b,tl   n  l1d.Ift.,t ddahah.ll1   b.   .l
oliagrper  dtiounadllntb.I'trnbs e.;  90   97fs 97   ..                                      NtsenedghTR elTepNver   cneaeft   ocnrf-os.urr
Atoca  to  wOs  aner  yetcne.  t norlenttl -tonal  unhn, ai rurl - '  Abeletepnrrny IIontcnteliu tor kitoe              d evelbelowndlbye seimh
fnntai   to standroar  haao e..t totsA tha  OIbe are  frlosesose.d   sybe,             VE7 pARe GET insconrnevy                ChnlvoIndlrlfaternu
ooonldrrolaa Irlng  lthnoaonbaaoeto   ftthue. Irrlats                                    ealst   djam            frh         Le tote ntbn1       tubnsas
diaposa,pl e.t1d yartntfe  ofta.rsatnpnuaue I.ta.r... die-. i                                                       dqt.de  fpi..l  and.i. e-tfa - tteqli-nialsno
oca hahno    -ateonlotsen   tpet ittO  orbith... i,trea-sa.) Ansni  Aayssdn Pbleioslesta
i- td R.1-i- P.,nther19(
ofbntan thetasbenaatPe'..a-carhr aster-horetaryetansnrtheasefd  .
p     .- r ciesenlsislar  nse_leton



- 25 -                                                     Annex I
rage 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  26,670,000    (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1010 a/
Amount           Average Annual Increase (Zj         Share of GDP at Market Prices (S)
Indicator                              (million US$         (at constant 1970 prices)                 (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 b/          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80         1960       1970       1975       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product c/                   32,075               5.3        6.1        5.8         100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture                                7,660               3.5        5.2       4.0           34.1      28.6       29.3       24.0
Industry                                   8,590              6.2        6.1        4.4          25.7       26.6       28.3       29.2
Services                                  12,655              5.9         7.3       6.4          40.2       44.8       42.4       46.8
Consumption                                 23,978               5.9       6.6         5.6          79.4      79.6       81.6       74.7
Gross Investment                             7,844               5.1        0.6        8.5          20.5      22.0       17.8       24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                     5,542               3.1        5.9      10.0           15.6      14.2       15.1       17.4
Imports of goods and NFS                     5,290               4.3        1.1      12.7           15.5      15.8       14.5       16.5
Gross national savings                       7,952               5.2        5.3      10.8           19.4       18.0      16.8       24.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(at current prices)
1960     1970       1975 _     1980_
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                    4,428               3.3       L.4       10.8           100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0
Major primary                              2,871               2.8      -4.6       12.8            72.5     69.4       51.2       64.8
Major manufactures                           686                -        23.8       6.5             -        9.0       24.5       15.5
Other merchandise imports (CIF)              871               -         3.8         5.4           -        21.6       24.3       19.7
Merchandise                                  4,533               3.5      -2.3         9.1          100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0
Food                                         364             10.0       -0.1       13.4             2.4      4.5        4.8        8.0
Petroleum                                    750            -21.4       70.6       43.5             2.0      -          2.0       16.5
Machinery and equipment                    1,750               5.2      -8.5       11.0           42.7      50.6       36.4       38.6
Other                                      1,669               1.8       2.4        5.4           52.9      44.9       56.8       36.9
1974      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980 b/
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                       27.6      20.8       23.6       28.3       17.1       23.9       24.5
Exchange rate                                      27.1       31.2      35.0       36.9       39.7       43.1       48.2
Export price index                                155.4     159.7      214.5      303.6      260.2      262.2      289.4
Import price index                               210.3      217.3      233.5      254.3      202.0      220.6      247.4
Terms of trade index                               73.9       73.5      91.9      119.4      128.8      118.8      117.0
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970           1975         1980 f/
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Current revenue                                                       10.6            11.3         12.2
Current expenditure                                                    5.7            5.3           8.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                             4.9            6.0           3.3
Capital expenditure                                                    1.8            1.1           4.6
Foreign financing e/                                                   3.3             2.9          4.0
1960-70        1970-75      1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                                    5.10           6.30         6.00
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                         2.00            3.90         3.70
Energy consumptioru growth rate (X)                                    5.00            4.00         4.00
ICOR /                                                                 3.54            3.43         4.00
Marginal savings rate h/                                               0.13           0.13          0.16
Import elasticity                                                      1.17           0.16         2.20
a/  World Bank Atlas Method.
b/  Estimated.
cl At market prices: Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes
and subsidies.
d/  Central Government.
e/ Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
f/  Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
g/ Lagged one year.
h/ Increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
April 24, 1981



- 26 -
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTIS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Poputoion       : 26,670,000 (mid_1980)
GWP Icr Capita: UAIII0C  a) (1979)                                                           (million US$ at torrent prices)
1974       1975        1976       1977      1978       1979          1980 _/   1991         1982        1993       1984'      1985
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
EEports of goods and non-factor services                  1037        2145        2782        3404      4059        4910          5327       5502        5912       6410       7467        8649
Imports af goods and tot-factor sernices                  1149        2030        23A2        2734       3722       4191          5376       6291       6997        7644       8618        9884
Resouce- balance                                            -149         -135        480          674       337        719           -49       -353       -1085      -4234      -1151       -1235
Ten Factor peymtents                                      -180        -263        -279        -235       e247       -127          -172       - 105      -166        -264       -375        -487
Net unrequined  nraenfers                                   27          48          21           16         7          4            26          4           5          6           6          6
C-rrt.t Acrount BaLance                                      302          -80        222         455         97        596          -195       -854      -1246       -1492      -1520       -1716
Nct ctrrcnt foreign investment                                39           32         14           43        56        124           234        127         157        250         251        350
MBdi-c and Long tero  loans (nt)                             202          308        131          192        72        703           938        '29         996        942         970       1166
co p bLic senttr                                         (160)       (254)       (109)       (183)       (92)      (603)        (781)       (550)      (911)       (846)      (860)      (1018)
tn prinnat  secttr                                         (42)        (54)        (22)        (I3)     (-20)       (100)          (57)      (-21)        (85)       (96)      (110)       (146)
tOtban capitaaL                                               55        -121         193          162       391       -159           264         -           -          _           -
Capinni Ancoun-  Balance                                     296          219        340          397       519        669          1336        654        1146       1192        1220       1511
C      ianyen R--ernes (   i-ncrease)                          6        -139        -562        -852       -616      -1265        -1141         200         100        300        300         200
lntrenittiora  Rsnonnos (official)                           152          547       1166        1830       2482       4106          5047       5047       4947        4647       4347       4147
Resernesasmornta of imports                                  1.6          3.2        6.1          8.0       8.0       11.8          11.7        9.7        8.5         7.3        6.0         5.0
GROSS DISBKRSEMENTI S/
Official gran-t
Crpss diabrBrsemn         of NET loeno                     235         390         262         371        319       1036
Concoaesaoa 1                                              102          39          47          27        60          36
Bilateral                                                (170)        (37)        (44)        (21)      (53)        (28)
IDA                                                       (-)         (-)         (-)         (-)       (-)         (-)
Otner Multilateral                                         (2)          (2)        (3)         (6)        (7)        (6)
Bon-concea.sonal                                           133         351         215         345       260        1000
Official e-port  -reditt                                  (26)        (14)        (0)         (147      (19)        (47)
28RD                                                      (59)       (106)        (76)        (85)      (90)       (1378
Onnerc -ultlanerel                                        (141        (19)        (27)        (31)      (33)        (311
P    ate                                                  (35)       (212)      (112)        (214)    (125)        (783)
EXTERNAL DEBT (end of perlid) C/
DtAa o-tstanding and  1Isboneed                         1249         2346       2453         2670      2803       3426
Ofictial                                               1074         1716       1785         1862      1999       2151
1BRD                                                 (354)        (634)      (672)        (716)    (751)       (838)
lDA                                                   (20)         (22)       (22)         (12)      (22)       (22)
Other                                                (700)       (1060)     (1019)       (1124)   (1225)    (1291)
Pr,iate                                               174          632        660          808       804       1275
Und-sbursed Deht                                          602         663         908        1040      1516        1993
DEB7 SERVICE Li
Tonal debt aervic- pay-etts of which                     119         249        278          313       398         664
_nterest                                               44          114        125          137       171        231
Porents as 5. %xp-rtn of goods and
all Services                                         10.6        10.1         9.5         8.8        9.5       12.5
Paymentas */. GNP                                       1.7          1.9        1.9          1.6       1.8        2.4
A-erage interest rate  nonne  loaos (7.)                 538          7.4         6.5         7.4        7.9       10.3
Official                                                (5.1)       (6.1)       (5.8)       (7.3)     (7.6)       (7.8)
(6.9)       (9.2)       (7.3)       (7,6)     (8.6)      (12.0)
Average m3turity of net   ..oes (yearn)                  72.4        15,1        14.          6 176.    E4.1       12.6
OfficiaL                                              (30.1)       (26.1)     (20,0.       (17.9)   (16.2)       (16.8)
Private                                                (9.7)        (8.2)      (7.4)        (7.6)     (9.1)     (10.0)
BABK GROUP EXPOSURE (/.) t/
IBoD DlD/total DOD                                       79.4        27.7       27.4         269,      06.9       24.5
106  dEsbcrseenns/tol gross dishbrsesents               04.6        27.1        28.9        22.9      05.7        13.3
108D dnbt servite/natal debt tervice                    34.4        23.9        13.7         14,3       8.8       13.1
1DA DOD/total 007                                         1.6         1.0         0.9         0.8       0.8         0.6
0DA disbo rsements/tocal gross disbureents
0LA debe service/total dolt servtce                        -          0.1         0.1         0.1       0.1         0.0
As 7. of Dlit Otttanding
eted of 1979
TERM STEUJCT 'KE
Matnritystrscnure of debt oAtsnanding (%)
Matcriti(es due within 5 pears                                                                                    32.3
eL-tftilt s don uinhin  17 yearn                                                                                  69.6
Interesn stnucture of debt ounstanding (%)
ontrest doe witbit first year                                                                                      5.4
a) World Bsek Atlas Metbod
4O/ Prelininary
c/ Poblin snd publicly guarenteed debt
April 24, 1981
CoLosbica Divsion



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
54 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                      918.4      23.5 /1   --
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0                 .6
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                 .6
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1                1.9
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0                .3
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2               9.0
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0                9.0
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                 6.7
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0               12.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                 3.0
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0               26.9
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                21.5
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   58.3                50.7
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   15.0                 1.5
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0               65.1
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0               20.4
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply          13.8              12.6
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              23.5
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              101.1
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0               20.0
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0               12.4
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0                32.9
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0              50.4
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0               60.5
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply      30.0               29.1
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725 /1 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power               72.0             72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply        31.0             31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.   20.0               20.0
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel       80.0             74.3
1807 /1 1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                  87.0             87.0
de Bogota
1825 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications    44.0               44.0
Medellin
1834 /1 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0               32.0
1857 /1 1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0              150.0
1868 71 1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 125.0            125.0
TOTAL                                           2,705.8      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          508.4       2.2
Total now outstanding                           2,197.4      21.3
Amount sold                         50.9
Of which has been repaid            37.9            13.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,184.4      21.3
Total undisbursed                                                  1,206.9
/1   Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board        .50      7        .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99    .08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans         .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Rogar, S.A.                     Home furniture   .08    .09          .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment       .50      -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing          -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development         -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles         1.98    .15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing          -    .81        .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing      1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock        1.00    .58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles         5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -    .01         .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -    .45         .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -    .43         .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism            .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism            .80    .25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing             -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement           1.50       -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining           6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43    .30       2.73
1980       Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing          9.00    .19        9.19
Total Gross Commitments                           49.31  13.84       63.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            36.63   8.88       45.51
Total commitments now held by IFC                  12.68   4.96      17.64
Total undisbursed                                  3.00    .19        3.19



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
1.        Ln. No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section, which was delayed by
two methane explosions, is expected to be completed by mid-1982; all other project
elements will be completed by the end of 1981. Borrower's financial performance
has deteriorated; recently, however, large tariff increases were put into effect
and additional ones are being contemplated which should help to improve overall
finances and bring Borrower's performance closer in line with targets. Disburse-
ments up to December 31, 1980, amounted to about 99% of the loan amount.
2.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current  - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production.  At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe flooding in
the project area, civil works construction has been halted and a study is being
carried out to reassess the flood protection and drainage requirements of the
area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



31
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.        Ln. No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - May 31, 1981
As of December 31, 1980, about 75% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1980, execution improved. INSFOPAL prepared a new implemen-
tation program for each city and works are now contracted and under construc-
tion, with no further delays foreseen. All works are expected to be completed
by May 1981.
4.        Ln. No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed. After considerable delay in
resettling the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita
reservoir was carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The
revised project cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occa-
sioned by higher cost of the civil works and resettlement. As of December 31,
1980, loan funds were fully committed and US$55.7 million or 99% of the loan
amount had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay and
higher costs the scope of the project may have to be reduced.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
6.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
In spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic
stabilization measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily
in most cities. With the exception of the ground water component and Barranquilla
water treatment plant which would be completed by December 1981, all works are
expected to be completed by June 1981. Sub-borrowers have not been implement-
ing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSFOPAL is proceeding to take
corrective measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$18.0 million or 67% of the
loan had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (168 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging because of slow transfer of funds by the Treasury; the Government is
attempting to correct the situation. As of December 31, 1980, US$6.7 million
or 34% of the loan remained undisbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule.  One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies have now agreed to take corrective
measures. As of December 31, 1980, US$8.2 million of the loan amount had
been disbursed.



33
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
9.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of December 31, 1980, about 96% of the loan had been
disbursed.
10.       Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of December 31, 1980, US$25.1 million, or 48% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The funds originally assigned to medium and large farmers were fully
committed and disbursed and the $2.0 million reallocated to this component will
be fully committed soon. However, only 28% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been disbursed, but commitments have increased recently. Concern
over possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower
to increase substantially its end-use supervision. About 51% of loan funds
for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 116 subprojects. As of
December 31, 1980, US$42.6 million, or 67% of the loan had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Good progress is being made
in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies. As of
December 31, 1980, US$50.7 million, or 87% of the loan, remained undisbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
13.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    March 31, 1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of December 31, 1980, US$13.5 million had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of December 31,
1980, about US$25.0 million had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a
year behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
16.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements will be resumed once EMCALI has taken corrective measures.
As of December 31, 1980, US$12.6 million or 91% of the loan remained undisbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new Directora
General of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project.
18.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of December 31, 1980, US$24.9 million or
20% of the loan had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award
for substations (KfW was originally to finance this component). The
Government is now exploring other sources of finance.
20.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site will require substantial soil investigations.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and by the end of December
31, 1980, 99% of the loan funds, or about US$99.1 million had been committed.
22.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and a solution to this
problem is currently being investigated.
23.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost. Performance by the Borrower continues to be satisfactory, although early
next year it will have to take additional tariff measures if its finances are
not to deteriorate.
24.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Physical works are about one year behind schedule, but the implemen-
tation programs for 1980 and 1981 have been accelerated in an endeavor to make
up the time lost and complete the project in 1983.
25.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding slowly. As mentioned in
paragraph 1, the borrower is taking additional tariff measures to improve its
finances.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
26.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Awaiting resolution of the problem of heavy arrears in payments to
ISA from ICEL, a shareholder, the Bank has not yet agreed to the effectiveness
of this loan.
27.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 16 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation.
28.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 1, 1980 and project implementa-
tion is underway.
29.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
While some awards of construction contracts are lagging behind
schedule, procurement of equipment and materials is progressing well and
the Borrower is confident that the project will be completed by April 1982.
30. 1/    Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
31. 1/    Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
32. 1/    Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
1/   Loan signature took longer than expected because of a delay in obtain-
ing Congressional approval for an increase in the external debt ceiling.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million.
December 19, 1980.
This loan is not yet effective.
March 12, 1981



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       1-1/2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       Instituto Colombiano de Hidrologia,
Meteorologia y Adecuacion de
Tierras (HIMAT), assisted by
FAO-CP.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:          April 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:    September 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations:          April 1981
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:          November 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
After effectiveness, the Bank would make a US$2 million equivalent
disbursement from the Loan Account, to a working fund sufficient to cover
approximately six months of local expenditures for civil works, consultants
and training under the project. The fund would ensure project liquidity and
prompt loan disbursement.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.       Assurances were obtained that:
(a)  Contracts for consulting services would be on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 50);
(b)  HIMAT would contract agricultural technical assistance in
accordance with the requirements of FFAP and under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 54);
(c) The necessary credit would be made available by FFAP through
financial intermediaries (paragraph 54);
(d) At least 80% of charges billed would be collected in each
district; where it is not, agreement would be reached on actions
to be taken to collect water charges, but where no agreement is
rached, no withdrawals will be made from the special account
for civil works (paragraph 58).



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Based on a system of water charges, satisfactory to the Bank,
HIMAT would put into effect a schedule of tariffs for each district
by January 1, 1982 (paragraph 60);
(f) By June 30, 1982, HIMAT would furnish the Bank a plan of action
for transferring district management responsibilities to the
users and thereafter, put it into effect (paragraph 61); and
(g) HIMAT would make adequate provisions in its budget for the prompt
future replacement of worn out machinery and equipment (para-
graph 62).
2.        A special condition of effectiveness would be that HIMAT has estab-
lished a project coordination unit and has assigned a senior HIMAT staff
member to be full time project coordinator with duties and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank (paragraphs 53 and 72). Conditions of disbursement
would be:
(a) For the advance to the working fund, that the fund had been
established and that the Government had approved the transfer
of its corresponding share (paragraphs 52 and 67); and
(b) For subsequent replenishments to the fund, that the Government,
the Bank and HIMAT had reached agreement on the size of the
fund for the subsequent period and that the Government had
approved the transfer of its corresponding share (paragraphs 52
and 67).



(BRD-3638RI
74                    T2                                                   OCTOBER 197r6
LENA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
d,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SUCR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ 
V   E    N  Z      U    E    L~~~~~T  Adto      o 12,poAO
C.-
/  C   UDO A A'
A  S 7A N DE  ADRR           U C 
C H ~~~~~~C 0 -   , r.       i              ~"            AotCO~-
RISARAOA   CALDAS                        /     OPOICA5ANARE
CUNDIINAMARCA')
~~   t=0   A        BO60TABO
rrA,fl'?3~~~~~~~~~~~~v  
AUCA                                                                              OJAIUILANIA           '
N A   I   0          >                       .           N      V A U PE S
C  MCOO  'C ~          AQ    ET 
0'~~~~~~~~PUT           
'COLOMBIA
LZElevaoHonsa bove 1400 meters:
- Oirtment0 In8eP6atncio  a0 Cms,arto boutTdtooies                P       A   U 
lnne80ional BoundoCies                                                                    /
76F  7r ~      ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I =
1                                                   7jQ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



