                                               Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                     ReportNo: 27668




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                           PROPOSED CREDIT

                                INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION
                                   (US$32.8MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                       AND A PROPOSEDGRANT

                                INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 10.8MILLION
                                   (US$15.9MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                           REPUBLICOF MALI

                                                FORTHE

                         TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENTPROJECT

                                             February 11,2004




Transport Sector
 CountryDepartment15
Africa Region

~This documenthas a restricted distributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective January 28,2004)

                                  Currency Unit = CFAF
                                         lCFAF = US$0.0019
                                           US$1 = 526.94CFAF

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1   --  December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADM          Airports o f Mali - Adroports du Mali
BCC          Behavioral Change communication
BIM-SA       MaliInvestment Bank    - Banque  d'lnvestissement de Mali
BMCD         Savings and Loans Bank of Mali Banque Malienne de Credit et de Ddp6ts
                                               -
CARCHEM      Support Unit for the reinsertion of the railways staff Cellule d 'Appui d la Rtinsertion
                                                                   -
des Cheminots
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMC          Concession Monitoring Committee
ECOWAS       Economic Community o f West African States
EDF          European Development Fund
EDM          Electricity o f Mali Electricitd du Mali
                                 -
EMP          Environmental Mitigation Plan
ESAP         Environmental and Social Action Plan
ESW          Economic Sector Work
FAPM         Financial and Administrative Procedures Manual
FARAH        Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FM           Financial Management
FMC          Financial Management
FMR          Financial Monitoring Reports
FMS          Financial Management System
GPN          General Procurement Notice
HDM          Highway Development andManagement
HIV/AIDS     HumanImmunodeficiencyVirus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
ICB          Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICs          Senegalese Phosphate Miningand Chemical Company
IEC          Information Education Communication
L C          Least Cost
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NEPAD        New Partnership for Africa's Development
NPV          Net Present Value
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
P I M        Project Implementation Manual
PMR          Project Management Reports
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS         Quality and Cost-Based Selection

                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




    R C F M   Railways Company of Mali -Regie Nationale du Chemin de Fer du Mali
    ROW       Right-of-way
    RPF       Resettlement Policy Framework
    SNCS      Railways Company o f Senegal  - SociktiNationale de Chemins de Fer du Sinkgal
    SONATAM   Tobacco Company o f Mali Sociktt Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes du Mali
                                         -
    SOTELMA   Telecommunications Company o f Mali Socidtd des Tddcommunications du Mali
                                                    -
    SPN       Specific Procurement Notice
    SSATP     Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program
    STI       Sexually Transmitted Infection
    TSP       Transport Sector Project
    V C T     Voluntary Counseling and Testing
    WADB      West African Development Bank
    WAEMU     West Africa Economic and Monetary Union

                                Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                              Country Director:     A. David Craig
                       Sector ManagedDirector:      C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Jean-Noel Guillossou




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                  MALI
                     TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       3
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  10
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      13
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       18
   3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  19
   4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                      19
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         20

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                            21
   2. Financial                                                                           23
   3. Technical                                                                           23
   4. Institutional                                                                       23
   5. Environmental                                                                       24
   6. Social                                                                              27
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  29

F. Sustainability and Risks

    1. Sustainability                                                                     29

  2. Critical risks                                                                         30
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                         31


G. Main Credit Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                31
  2. OtherBoard and Disbursement Conditions                                                 31

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                             32

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                32


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                             33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                       37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                            40
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary              41
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary       49
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                       52
          (B) Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                             58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                        64
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                       65
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                    66
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                               67
Annex 11: Letter o f Transport Sector Policy                                                69
Annex 12: Main Characteristics o f the Concession for Railway services between Dakar and    85
          Bamako
Annex 13: Social and compensation plan                                                      87
Annex 14: Environmental and Social Management Plan                                          89
Annex 15: Reference Prices o f cereals inMopti region and Gao                               95




MAP(S)
IBRD32868

                                                    MALI
                            TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                      ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                             Africa RegionalOffice
                                                    AFTTR

Date: February 11,2004                                  Team Leader: Jean-NoelGuillossou
Sector Manager/Director: C. SanjiviRajasingham          Sector(s): Roads andhighways (75%), Railways (25%)
Country Director: A. DavidCraig                         Theme(s): Infrastructureservices for privatesector
Project ID: PO79351                                     development (P)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan(SIL)
Project Financing Data
 [ ]Loan       [XI Credit      [XI Grant     [ ] Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $48.7 million




                                                                                   Foreign            Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                     18.30              0.00            18.30
IDA                                                                   14.60            18.20             32.80
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                               1.40            14.60             16.00
BORROWINGAGENCY                                                        0.20              0.50             0.70
FRANCE: FRENCHAGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT                                   2.60            22.50             25.10
IDA GRANT FORDEBT VULNERABLE                                           2.60            13.30             15.90
WEST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                          1.70            15.90             17.60
FOREIGNMULTILATERALINSTITUTIONS                                        1.oo              4.10             5.10




Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT
DELEGATEMINISTRYAT THE MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORT, INCHARGE OF
TRANSPORT
CoordinationUnit of Transport Sector Program
Contact Person: M.Thiemoko Yoro Kone, Coordinator of Transport Sector Program
Tel: 223.219230                Fax: 223.219230               Email: pst@datatech.net.ml
Other Agency(ies):
TRANSRAIL, Concessionaireofrail services betweenDakar andBamako
Contact Person: M.RkjeanBklanger, CEO
Tel: (514) 399-5609               Fax:               Email: rbelanger@canac.com
NationalHighwayDepartment, Ministry of Equipment and LandDevelopment
Address: Avenue de la Libertk, BP 1758, Bamako, Mali
Contact Person: M.Gabounk Keita, Director
Tel: 223.22.29.02               Fax: 223.23.60.92              Email: DntpBCefib.Com

 Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
    FY    I  2005   I  2006    1   2007  I 2008   I  2009   I
I   Annuall   12.30 I   19.80 I    11.50 I   4.50 I    0.60 I    I    I    I




                                                - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives o f the project are to (a) improve alternative corridors from Mali to the ports o f Dakar and
Abidjan by rail and road respectively; and (b) sustain accessibility to the Northern region o f Mali, one o f
the poorest regions inthe country.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Project progress will be monitored using the following main performance indicators which are consistent
with the transport infrastructure sector objectives o f the PRSP.
    Sector-related CAS goals: Adequate provision o f public infrastructure
        1. Objective 1    - road component (IDA credit): Roads between Bamako and borders o f CBte d'Ivoire
        and Burkina Faso passable and in good condition at the end o f the project. The total surface o f
        potholes on the roads should not exceed 5 sq-mper km during the period o f project execution.
        2. Objective 1 - rail component (IDA credit): The cumulative length o f slow down in effect for
        more than 90 days on the railway track between Dakar and Bamako should not exceed 30 km by
        2007.
        3. Objective 2    - road component (IDA grant): Road between Bamako and Gao (1135 km) passable
        and in good condition at the end o f the project: The total surface o f potholes on the roads should
        not exceed 20 sq-mper km during the period o f project execution.
    Outcomehmpact indicators:
        4. Objective 1 rail component (IDA credit): Share o f traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor
                            -
        compared to the total o f international trade o f Mali: The target is 25 percent o f total traffic at the
        endo f 2007 compared to about 15 percent in2001.
        5. Objective 1      - rail component (IDA credit): (1) Improvement o f turnaround time o f wagons
        between Dakar and Bamako: The target is 14 days in2004 and 11 days in 2007 compared to more
        than 20 days currently; (2) Customer satisfaction survey : The target i s that 75 percent o f the 16
        most important clients of the railway, based on their turn-over, will be satisfied with the railway
        concessionaire's services.
        6. Objective 2    -  road component (IDA grant): Increase in prices o f fruits and grains in Gao is not
        more than the increase in Mopti area as o f June 30, 2008, all other parameters being equal
        (baseline prices presented inAnnex 15 based on a survey carried out inearly 2003).
        7. Objective 2 - road component (IDA grant): Access to Gao is maintained during the period o f
        project execution: The target is that the average speed between Bamako and Gao does not fall
        below 65 M h o u r .
    Output indicators:
        8. Objective 1    - road  component (IDA credit): Number o f kms on the Bamako-Bougouni road that
        received periodic maintenance with project resources (target: 154 km).
        9. Objective 1 rail component (IDA credit): Concession fee as proposed by the concessionaire in
                          -
        i t s financial bid.
        10. Objective 1 rail component (IDA credit): (1) number o f railway staff that followed training
                            -
        courses with support from the project- there is no target for this indicator which will be monitored
        during project execution; (2) number of staff who found a new job or started a personal business:
        the target is 20 percent of the redundant staff compared to about 10 percent during the first social
        plans in 1993 and 1995.
        11. Objective 2      - road component (IDA grant): Number o f kms on the Shark-Gao road that
        received periodic maintenance with project resources (target : 407 km).



                                                      - 5 -

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:IDAiR.2003-0160           Date of latest CAS discussion: July 31, 2003

The project supports the CAS objective o f reducing the country's vulnerability due to climate conditions
and lack o f sea access by diversifyingthe economy, buildingand maintaining necessary infrastructure, and
protecting the environment. Mali is a landlocked country and depends strongly on the quality o f the
transport infrastructure along its access corridors to the sea. Deterioration o f transport infrastructure
immediately results in increase intransport costs. This in turn increases the price o f basic import products
critical to the economy such as construction materials, grain, flour and sugar and petroleum products. It
decreases the price o f cotton to producers as well. Cotton is the major export product o f Mali (between 60
percent and 90 percent o f tonnages exported between 1997 and 2000) which is the first producer o f cotton
inWest Africa and the second producer of the entire Africa continent. Achievement ofproject objectives
will create the conditions for an increased transfer o f benefits resulting from economic growth to the end
beneficiaries which are the producers and the consumers and prevent the loss o f these benefits through
costlier intermediary services. The project is part o f the base case scenario defined for Bank lending
assistance inthe CAS.

The project supports Goal 8 o f the MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDG), which aims at developing a
global partnership for development. Goal 8 will be achieved through Target 14, whose objective is to
address the special needs o f landlocked countries and small island developing States and is particularly
relevant for Mali as a landlocked country. The transport sector is also a major contributor to Goal 1 o f
MDGwhich aims at reducing poverty by stimulating growth. The project objectives will also contribute to
the goals under the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD), in particular, to close Africa's
gap in transport infrastructure and services, by: a) reducing the costs and improving the quality o f transport
services; b) increasing both public and private financial investments in transport infrastructure; c)
improving the maintenance o f transport infrastructure assets; d) removing formal and informal barriers to
movements o f goods and people; and e) supporting regional cooperation and the integration o f markets for
transport services.

IDA GRANT

The project has a strong social focus and specific activities selected to receive IDA grant funding (see costs
inannex 3) are: (i) maintenance ofthe road SevarC-Gao linkingthe Extreme North of Mali, one of
                     periodic
the poorest region in Mali, to the rest of the country and (ii)    HIV/AIDS preventive measures and road
safety activities included inthe civil works contract for the periodic maintenance o f the StvarC-Gao road.

Mali qualifies for IDA grant lending as per the guidelines which set the criteria as part o f the IDA 13
replenishment framework under the debt-vulnerability eligibility category. Mali is among the poorest
IDA-only countries that is particularly vulnerable to longer-term debt sustainability problems. The strategy
for the use o f grants in the Mali program is to apply them to those Bank activities which support the
priorities o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and directly target the poor. This particular
project was selected for grant financing because o f the following reasons:

 1. The development o f the transport sector is a key element o f the PRSP priorities o f (a) promoting
     institutional development while improving governance and participation; (b) developing human
     resources and improve access to quality basic services; and (c) developing basic infrastructure and
     productive sectors;


                                                      - 4 -

2. This project is a core element o f the Bank's FY04-06 CAS for Mali: Transport costs remain a major
    impediment to growth as they are extremely high (30 percent o f product prices). Progress made during
    the past ten years to (a) enhance and sustain efficiency o f the sector's operations; (b) improve and
    maintain infrastructure, especially for roads and rail; and (c) open access to the remote and poorest
    areas, have remained insufficient and these efforts needto be continued;
3. The Government has expressed a particular interest in applying IDA grants to this project as it further
    underlines the project's importance and the Government's commitment to its development objectives.
Inthe key performance indicators listed in section A.2 above, the following key indicators specific to the
IDA grant will specifically measure its impact: 3-Road between Bamako and Gao passable and in good
condition at the end o f the project; 6-Increase in prices o f fruits and grains in Gao is not more than the
increase in Mopti area as o f June 30, 2008, all other parameters being equal; 7-Access to Gao is
maintained during the period o f project execution; and 11. Number o f kms on the SCvarC-Gao road that
received periodic maintenance with project resources.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Country Context and Sector Background. Mali is a 1.2 million square kilometer landlocked
Sub-Saharan African country, sixty percent o f which i s covered by desert. The Malian economy, based
mainly on agriculture subject to markedclimatic vagaries, depends entirely on imports and cotton, its main
export commodity. Therefore, efficient b c t i o n i n g o f its intemational transport system is necessary for the
procurement o f numerous strategic commodities (notably petroleum products) and consumer and capital
goods. It i s also imperative to enable Mali's exports-particularly o f fiber cotton, its leading export, which
accounts for 85 percent o f export tonnage40 compete on the international market. The dispersion o f
activities across a vast territory, the pronounced disparities in population densities, rapid urban growth and
the ensuing development of trade flows have also made domestic transport of goods as well as passengers
particularly important. Transport accounts for 20-30 percent o f the cost o f most essential products.
Reducing vulnerability and increasing hture competitiveness o f Mali's economy will depend in large part
on improving the operational efficiency o f its transport system.

Untilthe September 2002 crisis in CGte d'Ivoire, the country used two main transportation corridors, the
Bamako - Dakar rail system through Senegal, and the Bamako - Abidjan road network through CGte
d'Ivoire. International traffic in Mali increased rapidly during the 1990s (from 917,000 tons in 1993 to
2,000,000 tons in 1999). During the period, the market share o f the railway declined substantially (from
34% to 18%), mainly due to the inability o f the railway to provide adequate capacity and quality o f service,
Since the crisis in CGte dIvoire, intemational traffic has been diverted through the port o f Tema in Ghana,
and, in a lesser way, through the port o f Lome inTogo.

(i) OverthepasttwodecadesMalihasputsubstantialeffortintothedevelopmentofitstransport
   Roads.
infrastructure, particularly its road network. Nevertheless, its road density remains one o f the lowest in
West Africa, with 1.2 km o f road per 100 km2,compared to 3.1 for the Economic Community o f West
African States as a whole.

Insufficient resources allocated to the maintenance o f the road networks and inefficiency of the
Government`s force account used for road maintenance have led to substantial maintenance backlogs and
have accelerated the deterioration o f the existing network. Out o f a 8,786 km network under the
responsibility o f the Ministry o f Equipment and Transport, 78 percent was in poor or bad condition at the
end o f 2002. Rehabilitation is required on 5,493 km o f roads. 1,515 km o f roads would need periodic
maintenance during the next three years. The Transport Sector Project (TSP, Cr 2617-MLI, 1994) assisted
the Government to increase the resources allocated to road maintenance to about US$4.6 million a year.


                                                        - 5 -

However, the resources remained below the real needs (estimated for routine maintenance at about US$7
million a year during TSP appraisal and at about US$lO million during this project's preparation), despite
the large volume of government revenues leviedinthe sector and estimated in 1996 at US$72 million for
revenues generated by the entire road taxation system and US$30 million for revenues generated by specific
taxes applied only to road transport. Most Government resources were allocated to routine maintenance
while periodic maintenance has usually been financed by donors. During the past ten years, annual
resources for periodic maintenance have averaged US$13.3 million with a 9 percent contribution from the
Government. Resources have increased during the past four years with an annual average o f US$22.9
million o f which 10 percent is the contribution from the Government.

(ii)Railways. UntilOctober 2003, the 1228 km-long Dakar-Bamako railway was operated by two
parastatal companies:     The Socidtd Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Sdndgal (SNCS) operated the
Senegalese part (644 km) and the Rdgie Nationale du Chemin de Fer du Mali (RCFM) operated the
Malian part (584 km). Rail infrastructure is old and suffers from a lack o f maintenance, particularly on the
Malian section. Traction and rolling stock was adequate in quantity, but also suffers from inadequate
maintenance and poor utilization. Despite staff reduction programs implemented in the 90s, the two
parastatals remained overstaffed. They lacked commercial orientation and financial discipline. The attempt
to better coordinate the operation and marketing o f intemational services through a joint SNCSmCFM
body in the mid-90s failed. While demand for international traffic to and from Mali has increased
substantially, railway traffic has decreased due to severe limitation on transport capacity resulting from
deteriorated infrastructure as well as poor quality o f service. The financial situation o f RCFM also severely
deteriorated, mainly due to the increase o f unit labor costs and, more generally, due to poor management.
After a modest profit (CFAF 222 million) in 1997, losses reached CFAF 2.9 billion in 1998, CFAF 2.9
billion in 1999 and CFAF 1.8 billion in 2000 (the equivalent o f US$2.5 million) or about 20 percent o f the
company's tumover during the same year.

2.2 Public sector reform. The PRSP describes the Government strategy to reform public sector and
promote private sector development. The objectives o f the reform are to refocus the role o f the State and
divest it o f productive activities, modemize the institutions and transform economic structures, liberalize
marketsand reform business laws. The strategy for private sector development comprises: strengthening of
the partnership between the State and the private sector; consolidation and development of infrastructure
and services aimed at supporting the development of enterprises in areas with strong economic potential;
strengthening o f the markets' institutional and regulatory framework; and building o f a strong and
performing financial sector. An action plan has been defined accordingly for the short and mid-terms and is
developed inthe PRSP.

Privatization o f public enterprises is part o f the second pillar o f the strategy for private sector development.
Strategic partners hold a majority inthe equity of the water and electricity public utilities. The most critical
measures being taken now are in the cotton area which is the major agricultural produce in Mali. The
sector restructuring plan adopted in 2001 and supported by the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr.
3582 approved on December 11, 2001) aimed at reforming and liberalizing the cotton sector, including
privatization o f the cotton parastatal cotton company's agro-industrial and commercial activities. The
Government has already privatizedHotel AmitiC, the tobacco company SONATAM (Socidti Nationale des
Tabacs et Allumettes du Mali), the electricity company EDM (Electricitd du Mali), and Banque Malienne
de Cr6dit et de D&p,Gts (BMCD). I t has also adopted laws to open the telecommunications sector to
competition, as well as to privatize the telecommunications company, SOTELMA (Socidtd des
Tddcommunications du Mali). Two cellular phone licenses were issued. The action plan for the financial
sector reform program has also been finalized, and progress has been made in restructuring the Banque
d 'Investissement de Mali (BIM-SA) for privatization. Preparations for the privatization o f the bank


                                                        - 6 -

 BIM-SA are at an advanced stage. In November 2003, the Government announced its intention to initiate
 negotiations with the private consortium which was awarded the concession o f ADM (ABroports du Mali)
 following the bidding procedure launched in early 2003. The other public enterprises which remain in the
  State portfolio are smaller enterprises. The Government is discussing with the Bank possible support to
 divest these enterprises.

 In parallel to private sector development, the Government has developed an action plan to improve the
 performance o f the public administration. This action plan aims at refocusing the State on its essential
 missions o f public service while making other actors responsible in the development area (local
 communities, civil society, women, private sector). The action plan is developed along two areas:
 (a) institutional framework :better define the missions and the role o f the State; identify and transfer to the
 private sector the activities where public intervention is not justified; transfer to local communities
 responsibilities as defined in the law; restructure and strengthen the administration based on an
 organizational audit; define and implement a deconcentration policy for public services;
 (b) human resource management : define a policy to strengthen the capacity in the social sectors in the
 administration; implement a training plan for civil servants; define a policy for career development and
 reform the statute o f civil servants; revise the wage and the social security policy for civil servants.

 2.3 Sector issues and Government strategy. The Government has implemented several reforms with the
 support o f the donor community under the umbrella o f the Transport Sector Program during the past ten
 years. The Government strategy to achieve the development objectives in the Letter o f Sector Policy
 adopted in 1993 was to develop competition between transport modes and enterprises on a sound basis; to
 improve the condition o f infrastructure for the road and rail networks, by applying a suitable maintenance
 policy; and to continue the process o f opening up areas that lack easy access. The following paragraphs
  summarize the status o f implementation o f the strategy, the main issues and the current strategic choices o f
 the Government :

 -  Road maintenance financing: Past inefficient management o f road maintenance resources has led the
 Government to commercialize it by involving road users in the decision making process, essentially the
 approval or road maintenance programs and by financing road maintenance from road user charges. An
 autonomous Road Fund (RF) was created inAugust 2000 reflectingbest practices in other countries where
 R F s have been established. The Road Fund i s managed by a Board o f Directors with five representatives
  from roadusers, two representatives from local governments and five representatives from the Government.
 Before the Fund was created, management o f road maintenance resources was characterized by lack o f
  accountability, inadequacy between resources allocated and road maintenance needs, delays inprovision o f
  fimds resulting in deferred road maintenance, accelerated road deterioration and increased road
 maintenance and transport costs. As shown in the following table, the Government intends to more than
 double road maintenance resources in 2007 compared to 2002 by significantly increasing resources
 generated by road user charges.

                                                              1999    2000      2001      2002   2003      2004       2007
  Total road maintenance budget (CFAF billion)                 4.0     5.2       2.9       4.8     5.6       7.5      13.0
        user charges (%) o f total budget*                       0        0          0       0       0        17        40
~~~
 *Road
    Revenues from the levy on vehicle weight are estimated at CFAF 300 million in2003. In2004, roaduser charges increase to
CFAF 1.3 billion with the creation of a levy on the price of petroleum products. Further increase until 2007 results from the
progressive increase o f the levy on petroleum products and from revenues from toll roads.




                                                              - 7 -

- Road maintenance management: The Government recognizes that the Government administration is not
the best environment for road maintenance management conducive to efficiency and transparency. The
reasons are lack o f incentives for administrative staff, cumbersome procurement procedures, lack o f
resources for operating expenditures, Government interference in day-to-day management o f road
maintenance resulting in untimely programming and procurement, delays in execution o f seasonal works,
and overall disconnect between the initial and actual programs and resources. A new framework for road
maintenance management is being designed by the Government which is envisaging to restructure the
Public Works Department along two possible options : the first option keeps responsibilities for
programming works in the Public Works Department and transfers responsibilities for managing the
execution o f road maintenance works to an autonomous executing agency; the second option transfers both
responsibilities to an autonomous executing agency. A study financed by the European Community is
underway to provide the basis for the decision inearly 2004.

-  Road maintenance execution: The Government decided to transfer the actual execution o f road
maintenance works to private contractors, starting with the second semester o f 2002 after the Road Fund
became fully operational. In 2001, more than 40 percent o f road maintenance works was still executed by
force account. In 2003, all road maintenance was executed by contractors with the exception o f emergency
works inremote areas inthe Extreme North where use o f contractors would be too costly.

- Rail transport: Although restructuring measures defined during the previous TSP were implemented,
they could not be sustained because o f Government involvement inmanagement o f the company resulting in
overstaffing, inefficient management and operation o f non-profitable services for political reason and
because o f increased competition with the Bamako-Abidjan corridor. The joint Senegalese-Malian company
created for managing international rail traffic could not keep up with the newly privatized and much more
competitive railway company in CBte d'Ivoire which resulted in losing most o f the traffic o f petroleum
products previously transported by rail from Dakar. Compared to the early 1990s where rail traffic peaked
at more than 500,000 tons, it amounted in 2002 to only about 250,000 tons for international traffic and
70,000 tons for local traffic. The Government decided in2000 to transfer international rail operations to a
private operator while keeping the public railway company for domestic operations and keeping the
ownership o f rail equipment leased out to the private operator. In2001, this strategy was rescinded and the
Government decided that all traffic including equipment would be transferred to a private concessionaire.
The concession was awarded to a joint-venture of private operators in February 2003 and signed on
September 24, 2003. The concessionaire started its operations on October lst, 2003. Since then, traffic has
started to increase reaching more than 40,000 tons in January 2004 compared to less than 20,000 tons
before the concession was awarded. This results from greater efficiency and better safety and reliability o f
railway services operated by the concessionaire.
- Road transport: The sector suffers from low profitability as a result o f overcapacity, overloaded trucks
and an aging vehicle fleet. The over-loading o f trucks was shown by surveys carried out during the period
of execution o f the Transport Sector Project. Since then, no recent data are available because the weighing
stations are out o f order. The Government recently purchased new weighing stations which are beingtested
before being installed. Statistics from the Transport Observatory show that the vehicle fleet is aging. About
95 percent o f trailers and tankers are more than 11-years old. This results from the overcapacity diagnosed
when the Transport Sector Project was prepared. The consequence o f this overcapacity is a low number of
trips per truck and poor profitability o fthe activity, which prevents to renew the fleet except for some large
transporters.

- Transit transport: Efficiency o f transit is hampered by the following issues: (a) procedures for interstate


                                                       - a -

road transit are not applied making transit through borders cumbersome; and (b) unauthorized road blocks
are a source o f harassment for travellers and generate bribery and corruption. As a landlocked country,
Mali suffers particularly from these problems. They were salient in CGte d'Ivoire and are increasing in
Ghana where transit traffic i s transferring because o f the crisis in CGte d'Ivoire. Transit issues are being
addressed through a regional transport facilitation program prepared by the West Africa Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU) and the Economic Community o f West African States (ECOWAS). The
program extends to the ECOWAS region a pilot developed by WAEMU which consisted o f two
components: (a) creation o f Observatories o f practices along key road corridors; and (b) construction and
equipment o f joint border posts at key borders. The program's content was discussed during a workshop
with representatives from the ECOWAS countries, regional institutions, private sector and donors held in
Accra on November 10 to 12, 2003. It will cover improvement and harmonization o f transit regulation,
improvement o f transit procedures efficiency, improvement o f road and port infrastructure, monitoring and
evaluation. The corridors to Mali are among the priority corridors which will receive support from the
program.
-  Rural transport: The Government has launched the preparation o f a rural transport strategy to address
rural transport issues. These issues were identified with the support o f the Rural Travel and Transport
Program which is part o f the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP) developed with support o f
several donors including the Bank. The first issue is lack o f sound allocation o f responsibilities. Since rural
roads were necessary for rural development, the responsibility for developing the rural road network was
taken over by rural development agencies. Since these agencies very often had a monopoly on the
production o f major produces, they could impose an additional charge on the price to the producer to
finance this development. With the collapse o f most o f these agencies because o f management inefficiencies
and the liberalization o f prices and markets, the agencies could not sustain this additional charge which
would have made the exports uncompetitive and have been unable to bear the cost o f developing and
maintaining the rural roads. In the absence o f institutional arrangements for the transfer o f responsibility
for maintenance from these agencies to the Government, the roads were not maintained and the network
eventually collapsed. The second issue i s the lack o f resources for rural road maintenance. This is
compounded by the fact that resources for maintenance o f the primary road network are themselves
insufficient. Support to the definition o f the strategy is also provided under the National Rural
Infrastructure Program (Credit 3393-MLI approved on June 27,2000).

The Government has prepared a Letter o f Transport Sector Policy (see Annex 11) which describes the
strategy that it intends to implement during the next four years to achieve its objectives for the sector with
support from the proposed project.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The railway component o f the proposed operation will address the need to secure an efficient second
transport corridor to unlock the country.

Inthe rail sector, the strategic choice is reflected by the Government decision to transfer rail operations to a
private operator and to focus the public sector on concession monitoring rather than operating an inefficient
public enterprise. Two issues need to be addressed to make the concession effective and rail services
efficient:
         (a) The first issue results from the overstaffing o f the public railway company. In 2003, RCFM
had about 1,462 staff when it is estimated that about 600 would have been sufficient in addition to about
the same number of staff on the Senegalese side. Before the concessionaire took over, redundant staff
needed to be compensated to ensure a peaceful social climate. The compensation plan was negotiated with



                                                      - 9 -

the staffunions andthe redundant staff were compensated inOctober 2003. The major complaint from the
staff is that the plan was calculated on the basis o f a retirement age of 55 years while a law was recently
adopted which increased the retirement age to 58 years for civil servants, but not for private sector
workers. The staff inthe railway company, having a private status, were not eligible for the benefits of the
new law. However, the Government is discussing the adoption o f the law for the private sector and has
agreed to compensate the redundant staff retroactively on its own resources on the basis o f the new law
after it is approved by the Parliament.
          (b) The second issue is the poor condition of the rail infrastructure and rolling stock as well as
limitations in transport capacity which prevent an efficient operation o f rail services. Between September
and November 2002, traffic was slowed down on about 86 km during more than 90 days on sections
seriously deteriorated on the Malian side. The number o f derailments was high, which was a cause o f lack
o f safety as well as o f additional costs to repair the track, and the rolling stock was deteriorating rapidly
without being maintained or repaired due to the difficult financial situation o f the public company. About
80,000 tons o f Malian goods were stored in Dakar because o f lack o f wagons. The concessionaire will
address the infrastructure issue by executing an investment plan which was presented during two donors
meetings organized with the World Bank's support in June and October 2003. These meetings were
successful and the amount o f resources available from donors exceeds the amount o f funds requested by the
concessionaire. To increase the transport capacity, the concessionaire will modify and upgrade the braking
system o f the locomotives and wagons which will allow to double the capacity of the trains. However,
improved management is also key to better efficiency as demonstrated since the concessionaire took over in
October. During the first two months o f operation, it transported 46,000 tons, about twice the monthly
tonnage transported by the public railway company during the previous two years.

In the road sector, the strategy aims at addressing the issue of poor accessibility to and within Mali
resulting from lack of preservation of road infrastructure. While the project will finance limited periodic
maintenance o f road infrastructure, it will support a deep restructuring o f sector institutions aiming at
improved road maintenance management, financing and overall efficiency. The first strategic choice is
reflected in the Government's decision to create a Road Fund which will improve efficiency in the use o f
road maintenance resources and involve road users in the decision-making process o f defining road
maintenance programs. This includes also the involvement o f a Road Board with representatives o f the
private sector. This is critical for the success o f the reform as a Road Fund operated by an inappropriate
Road Board may become a major governance issue. The second choice will result from the Government
decision to reform the institutional framework for programming and management o f road maintenance
based on the study financed by the European Community. The project will give the opportunity to
consolidate the road maintenance strategy implemented in Mali through the creation o f the Road Agency,
the RoadFundandthe execution of works by contract.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAimex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Insupport of the above objectives, and as a follow-up to the reforms achieved under the Transport Sector
Project, the proposedproject seeks to: (a) support the concessioning o f railway services between Dakar and
Bamako, including financing o f redundancies and necessary upgrading o f the rail infrastructure; and (b)
rehabilitate the road infrastructure and secure an all-year satisfactory level of service along the road from
Bamako to the borders o f CBte dIvoire and Burkina Faso and the road from Bamako to Gao which links
the ExtremeNorth of Mali to the rest o fthe country.
The proposed operation will include three components.




                                                      -10-

Component A: Rail component.
Sub-component AI: Social and compensationplan. The sub-component will support implementation o f the
social and compensation plan to mitigate the impact o f the concessioning o f rail services to a private
operator on staff declared redundant. The plan includes the following activities: (a) financing o f severance
payment; (b) technical advisory services and operating costs o f the unit created to provide support to
redundant staff in evaluating training needs, finding   a new job, and preparing personal business projects;
(c) measures aimed at facilitating reinsertion o f redundant staff; and (d) technical advisory services to
monitor the social impact of redundancies during and after the period o f implementation o f the social and
compensation plan.

Severance packages were paid in October 2003. Eligible expenditures for an amount o f CFAF 5.25 billion
(equivalent to about US$10 million) confirmed by an audit report will be financed retroactively by the
proposed project as approved by Bank management inJune 2003.

Sub-Component A2: Infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization. The sub-component will support
rehabilitation o f the most deteriorated sections o f the railway track between Bamako and the Senegalese
border. The sections to be maintained will be definedby the private concessionaire o f the railway company.
The activities in the sub-component are: (a) procurement o f inputs (rail, sleepers, ballast) to rehabilitation
works; (b) measures to mitigate the environmental and social impact o f the rehabilitation works and past
degradations prior to the concession; and (c) technical advisory services for implementation and monitoring
o f the railway component o f the social and environmental mitigation plan o f the project.
Sub-Component A3: Institutional support. The sub-component includes technical advisory services for the
first audit o f the railway concession scheduled during the third year o f the concession in the concession
agreement, and support to the committee appointed to monitor implementation o f the concession and
compliance with the concession agreement.
Component B: Road maintenance component.
Sub-component B l : Periodic maintenance of road network. The sub-component will include: (a) periodic
maintenance o f (i)    the 154 km section o f the road between Bamako and Bougouni, which is part o f the
road linking Bamako, the capital city o f Mali, to the ports on the West African Coast (Abidjan in Cbte
d'Ivoire, Tema in Ghana, and Lome in Togo); and (ii)      the 558 km section o f the road between Stvart and
Gao, which is part o f the only road giving access from Bamako to the Extreme North o f Mali; (b) technical
advisory services for supervision o f works; and (c) measures to protect the environment, to improve road
safety and to prevent the spread o f HIVIAIDS resulting from the presence o f civil works contractors inthe
villages along both roads. The HIViAIDS activities will include sensitization campaigns in parallel to the
road works and railway operations to prepare the sector stakeholders to participate fully in the HIV/AIDS
M A P project under preparation by the Bank. Road safety activities include equipment for road safety
database, adaptation o f driving course teaching and exam documents to local context and language, supply
o f one second-hand articulated truck for driving courses, study to improve both formal and informal
teaching o f driving, awareness building and road safety campaigns, vertical and horizontal signaling,
parking areas inthe villages, and access to the customs area at the entry o f Bamako.
Giventhe social importance o f the Stvart-Gao road as it keeps open the access to one o f the poorest region
o f Mali, the contract for the periodic maintenance works on the road, including HIV/AIDS and road safety
activities, will be financed with the IDA grant.
Sub-component B2: Institutional support. The sub-component will include (a) technical advisory services
for impact monitoring; (b) technical advisory services, equipment and training to support implementation o f
road sector reforms and strengthening o f the local road construction industry; (c) environmental and social
impact assessment o f road maintenance, strengthening o f the capacity o f the Road Agency to implement


                                                      -11 -

environmental and social mitigation action plans.
Component C: Project management: The component includes: (a) technical audit o f the works carried out
and the goods provided in components A and B (review o f procurement procedure, quality o f works,
compliance with contracts); (b) technical advisory services for fiduciary aspects o f project coordination
(financial management specialist, accountant); (c) financial audit o f project accounts; and (d) operating
costs o f the project coordination unit.
Financing Plan. The project is supported by the donor community. Inthe rail sector, two Donors Round
Table meetings facilitated by the Bank in 2003 successfully brought together about 10 donors interested in
supporting the railway concession. The French Development Agency (AFD), the West African
Development Bank (WADB), IDA and the concessionaire will finance the investment planfor the next five
years. The WADB project was signed with the public railway company and is transferred to the
concessionaire. The AFD project is being evaluated. In the road sector, the African Development Bank
(AfDB) approved in November 2003 a project to improve the Ghana-Burkina Faso-Mali corridor which
includes the Bougouni-Sikasso road, a continuation o f the Bamako-Bougouni road financed under the
present IDA project. The WADB is considering complementing the financing plan o f the AfDB project.




 B.RoadMaintenance Component
 C. Project management                                             1.15          0.9        0.92         1.9
                                          Total Project Costs   131.51         100.0      48.63        100.0
                                   TotalFinancingReauired/      131.51 I       100.0 I    48.63   I    100.0 1

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will help consolidate reforms carried out up front in the rail and road maintenance sectors.
Operations o f rail services were transferred in October 2003 to the private concessionaire designated in
February 2003. The Road Fundis already created to improve efficiency and transparency inthe use o f road
maintenance resources by involving road users in its management and in the decision-making process with
respect to road maintenance program definition. Execution o f road maintenance is now privatized since the
Road Fund became operational in 2002. The only reform not yet implemented is the creation o f the Road
Agency which is scheduled to be completed in2004.




                                                  - 12-

3. Benefits and target population:
The rail component of the project will benefit producers and consumers o f products transported by rail in
Senegal and Mali. Improved efficiency of rail transport will make the rail more competitive compared to
the road for certain categories of products such as bulk dry products, containers and petroleum products.
These products can be transported in large quantities by rail and costs can be reduced because o f
economies of scale compared to road transport. Better reliability and safety compared to the current
situation o f the railway will also reduce loss o f goods and cost o f maintenance. It i s expected that savings
will be passedto end users of the railway because the transport market on the corridors linking Mali to the
sea will be very competitive. The railway will compete with the road and the railway through C6te dIvoire,
the existing roads through Ghana and Togo, and the new roads through Guinea, Senegal and Mauritania
which will open during the next two years. A better tracking system o f goods on the railway will be an
incentive for freight forwarders and shippers to use the railway, particularly as such a system does not exist
for trucks and i s unlikely to develop in the short term because o f the informal character o f the transport
industry.
Improved railway efficiency will also benefit the rural populations along the railway track between Bamako
and Kayes, at the border with Senegal, who are poor and isolated as no road exists to access this area. The
social impact assessment o f the rehabilitation works emphasized the importance o f the railway for these
populations.
Concessioning o frail services will benefit the Government's budget by reducing the financial burden caused
by the bankrupt situation o f the public railway company. On the contrary, the concessionaire will pay a
concession fee to the Government. The concessionaire will also pay taxes on its revenues which has not
been the case with the public railway company.
Railway staff transferred to the new railway company will benefit from better working conditions based on
similar experiences inCameroon and CGte d'Ivoire.

Implementation o f the environmental mitigation plan will benefit the environment along railway tracks and
in depots as transportation of hazardous substances improves and train operation becomes cleaner and
safer.
The road component o f the project will benefit the population o f Gao, Kidal and Tombouctou, inthe North
o f Mali, which is the poorest population in the country. Poverty incidence inthis region is the worst among
the nine regions of Mali, based on existing basic services supplied to the population (health, education,
potable water, etc.). In 1993, the school enrollment ratio was 24 percent compared to an average o f 33
percent in Mali. Although the region is rich in potential economic activities (live stock, Niger river,
phosphates, manganese, tourism), it is difficult to exploit this potential due to the long distance between the
region and other regions and economic centers in Mali. In 2000, Gao exported about 10,000 tons o f
produces to other regions, the second lowest tonnage after Kidal and Tombouctou. It imported about
40,000 tons, the fourth lowest tonnage after Kidal, Tombouctou and Kayes. During the rainy season, the
road to Gao is also used to reach Tombouctou. Isolation o f the North from the rest o f the country was one
o f the causes o f the rebellion between 1990 and 1994. While good road infrastructure from Gao to the rest
o f the country cannot alone change the difficult situation o f Northem Mali, its preservation is required to
preserve political stability inthe region as well as inthe entire country itself.
Periodic maintenance on the Bamako-Bougouni road will complement rehabilitation o f the railway track to
Dakar and will benefit cotton producers in the Bougouni region by reducing transport costs along the
Dakar corridor and making it more competitive than the Abidjan corridor used inthe past to export cotton.
For import products, it will increase competition between corridors, the benefit o f this competition going to
consumers.


                                                      -13-

The road safety program executed at the same time as the civil works on the two roads will benefit
inhabitants inthe villages and cities along the roads as well as vehicles passengersand drivers.
The HIV/AIDS activities will benefit the migrant workers working for civil works contractors executing the
contracts financed under the project and the population inthe villages along the railway track and the roads
who are at risk because of the presence o f migrant workers. Basic activities will comprise condom
promotion and distribution, and support o f Information Education CommunicationBehavioral Change
Communication (IECBCC) for employees working on the specified works sites. These activities will be
handled by a contracted NGO that has a track record in HIV/AIDS prevention activities. For HIV/AIDS
care purposes, all health units on the work sites will be provided with condoms and IEC. The project will
identify health centers along the two roads and the railway track that can be supported to provide basic
HIViAIDS related health services including treatment o f sexually transmitted infection (STI), treatment o f
opportunistic infections and if applicable, voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) services.
Implementation o f the social plan to mitigate the impact o f redundancies will benefit the workers who are
declared redundant. The plan includes training, and support to find a new job or to develop a personal
project (creation o f enterprise, change o f occupation).

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:

Institutionalarrangements
The delegate Ministry in charge of Transport will oversee the rail component. The new concessionaire will
be the executing agency o f the railway rehabilitation sub-component o f the project. A concession
monitoring committee (CMC) is being created in accordance with the concession agreement included inthe
bidding documents for the selection o f the concessionaire. C M C will comprise representatives from the
Governments o f Mali and Senegal and from the concessionaire. C M C will act as a forum for the
Government o f Mali and the concessionaire to monitor execution o f the concession agreement, including
implementation o f the concessionaire's investment program and compliance with transport regulations in
both countries, inparticular those related to safety and environment.
An audit of the concession is scheduled in the concession agreement the third and the fifth year of the
concession and every five years after that. The audit will review compliance with the terms o f the
concession agreement by the Government and the concessionaire, and contracts between the concessionaire
and contractors linked to the reference strategic shareholders.
An association with representatives from the civil society and from the redundant staff was created with
TSP support to implement the social and compensation management plan to mitigate the impact o f the
redundancies. TSP will finance the operation of the unit until TSP's closing date on December 31, 2004
and the proposed project will finance the operation o f the unit in 2005. A plan o f action is available in the
project files which details the tasks o f the unit, its staff and its budget.
The Ministry o f Equipment and Transport will oversee the road component. The Department o f Public
Works will be the executing agency o f the component until a new institution is created following the
on-going process on the definition o f a Road Agency with EU financing. Responsibilities for managing the
component will then be transferred to the new institution.




                                                        - 14-

Implementationarrangements
Period of project execution and mid-term review. The Interim Transport Project is expected to become
effective in July 2004, executed over four years and closed on December 31, 2008. The Borrower, the
concessionaire and IDA will carry out a mid-term review no later than June 30, 2006. The review will
monitor project implementation progress, performance o f the concessionaire and project performance
indicators. I t will also identify implementation issues and agree to a plan o f action to address these issues.
No later than May 15, 2006, the Borrower and the concessionaire will prepare a mid-term assessment
including: (a) project implementation status and use o f credit resources; (b) performance indicators; (c)
progress in implementation o f the environmental and social mitigation plan; and (d) a draft action plan
including revised disbursements and updated procurement plan covering the period through project
completion. Recommendations from the mid-term review will be implemented promptly by the Borrower
and the concessionaire.
Implementation of the railway component: The Government o f Mali will onlend the IDA funds to the
concessionaire with the following terms: (a) 5-year grace period and 20-year period o f reimbursement; (b)
four percent annual interest rate; and (c) risk of change borne equally by the Government and the
concessionaire. The Government will make available from the IDA credit and as a grant to the
concessionaire, funds required to repair environmental degradations resulting from railway activities prior
to the concession. The concessionaire will finance from its own resources the measures to mitigate the
environmental and social impact o f railway activities after the concession.
Bunk supervision. In the first year o f project implementation, the Bank will carry out two supervision
missions with a particular emphasis on implementation o f the social and compensation management plan
for the redundancies in the railway company; and o f the environmental and social mitigation plan o f the
concession, especially the repairs o f degradations resulting from past railway activities. The missions will
include a social scientist and an environmental specialist in addition to the staff responsible for supervision
of sectoral or fiduciary aspects o f the project. In view o f the existing capacity inthe Bamako office which
was recently strengthened with the recruitment o f an infrastructure specialist, in the subsequent years,
supervision will consist o f one mission with the participation o f Washington staff and one mission o f the
infrastructure staff based in Bamako accompanied by the fiduciary staff (financial management specialist,
procurement specialist) inthe Bamako office.
Monitoring and Reporting The concessionaire will provide annual reports on railway operation
performance, including progress towards the project performance indicators and implementation o f the
social and environmental action plan. The consultant responsible for organizing the payment o f severance
pay to the staff o f the railway company under the supervision o f a committee produced a report after all
indemnities were paid. The report was provided to IDA. The unit which will provide support to redundant
staff o f the railway company will produce quarterly reports on its activities The concessionaire, the
Highway Department and the Road Agency after its creation will provide quarterly reports on project
implementation, including implementation o f environmental and social action plans. The reports will be
furnished to IDA not later than one month after the end o f the quarter they are due. The last quarter report
will include an updated procurement plan and disbursement forecasts for the year to come. The project
coordination unit will consolidate the annual and quarterly reports into an annual report which will assess
implementation performance and include progress toward the project performance indicators for all the
project components. The project coordination unit will also produce consolidated annual financial
statements. The annual reports identified above will be furnished to IDA not later than three months after
the end o f the fiscal year.
The concessionaire and the Road Agency after its creation will furnish to IDA their annual financial
statements and the financial audit reports. The project coordination unit will furnish a technical audit o f


                                                       -15-

road and railway works executed under the project, including implementation o f environmental and social
action plans related to the execution o f the works, and a financial audit o f the project accounts including
statements o f expenditures. Technical and financial audits will be carried out by independent auditors with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. All technical and financial audits will be furnished to
IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. A separate financial audit of the severance
pay is underway. The report is expected to be provided by end o f February 2004.
Evaluation: A survey will be carried out to evaluate the impact o f the social plan on the redundant staff
after the first, second and fourth years o f project execution. The Concession Monitoring Committee will
fumish to IDA an audit o f the terms of the concession including execution of the environmental plan not
later than six months after the third year o f the concession. The National Department o f Transport will
evaluate annually the share o f traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor compared to the total o f Mali's
international trade based on the traffic data for rail provided by the concessionaire and the overall
international traffic provided by the customs. An annual survey will be carried out by local consultants to
evaluate the impact o f the road works on the prices o f h i t s and grains in Gao compared to other regions.
A customer satisfaction survey will be carried out annually to measure the satisfaction of customers
vis-a-vis the services provided by the railway concessionaire. The first survey will be carried out in 2004.
The Road Data Base will carry out an annual survey to measure the condition of the roads between
Bamako and Gao and between Bamako and the borders o f Burkina Faso and CBte d'lvoire. It will also
measure annually the travel time between Bamako and Gao. The other performance indicators will be
provided in the reports listed above and will be evaluated by the Project Coordination Unit in its annual
report.
Procurement, disbursement, accounting and financial arrangements are detailed in Annexes 6-A and
6-B.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A supplemental credit to the Transport Sector Project or a smaller project, both focusing only on railway
rehabilitation were two alternatives initially considered. A stand alone operation covering railway
rehabilitation and periodic maintenance o f the Bamako-Bougouni and SCvar6-Gao roads was preferred
because o f the economic and social importance o f these corridors for the country. Attempts to make cotton
more competitive will risk failure if the Bamako-Bougouni road linking the cotton area to the railway
deteriorates and transport costs increase as a result. Deterioration o f the SCvarC-Gao road would increase
poverty and as a result create the risk o f political deterioration in the North as seen in the 1990s,
annihilating economic efforts to promote economic development.
An alternative to the project would have beento postpone the project untila transport sector analysis and a
new Transport Sector Program are prepared by the Government. I t is estimated that it will take two years
to prepare such a program. The Government will start a sector analysis in early 2004 in cooperation with
donors involved inthe transport sector (European Community, Agence Franqaise de DCveloppement, World
Bank, African Development Bank). The analysis is expected to result in an update o f the transport strategy
adopted by the Government in 1993. The preparation o f the investment program supporting strategy
implementation would then take about one year. Mobilization o f h d s would take an unknown amount o f
time, These delays would make it difficult to postpone the proposed project activities untila new Transport
Sector Program is finalized. In addition, the Bank is waiting for the conclusions and recommendations o f
the ESW on the transport sector in Mali which is underway to identify within the framework of the PRSP
how the Bank can support the transport sector to provide the highest added value, which issues need to be
addressed and which instrument is the best to address these issues. For all these reasons, it was decided to


                                                     - 1 6 -

proceed with this project as it is a well-focused short-term operation for the transition period until a new
transport program i s available. Since this decision was taken, its rationale has been even more strengthened
because o f the crisis which has developed in Cate d'Ivoire since September 2002 justifying urgent
improvement o f alternative corridors to the Abidjan-Bamako corridor.

Rail component:
- One alternative to the concessioning o f railway operations to a private operator would be to restructure
the public railway company. Based on the failed experience of restructuring RCFM under the Transport
Sector Project as well as other failed experiences inothers countries inAfrica, this alternative was rejected.
- The second alternative would be to do nothing which would likely result in the disappearance o f the
company. The immediate impact would be social with about 1,400 staff who would be laid off in Mali in
addition to about the same number o f staff inthe railway company in Senegal. Both countries would lose a
very costly asset which would then be more costly to rebuild. The economic analysis of the project
concludes that closing o f the railway services would not be economically justified.
- The third alternative considered was to start rehabilitation works managed by RCFM without waiting for
the concession to become effective and the concessionaire to take over the railway operations. This
alternative was rejected and it was decided that the concessionaire would decide which type o f works would
be carried out and that it would manage and supervise their execution. The reason is that the concessionaire
will reimburse the credit and has the incentive to use the resources speedily and efficiently which is not the
case with a public enterprise.
- The last alternative was to seek other financing than IDA for redundancies and rehabilitation works. Two
donors' meetings were organized in June and October 2003 to discuss the financing plan o f the investment
plan of the concessionaire. N o donor expressed interest to finance the redundancies.

Road component:
- One alternative would have been to wait for the creation o f the Road Agency to ensure that an efficient
framework for road maintenance management is in place. However, this would have postponed the project
by about one year delaying urgent support to the railway sector to make the concessioning effective and this
would also have resulted in costlier road maintenance works on the roads Bamako-Bougouni and
SCvarC-Gao. The creation o f the Road Agency is a condition for European Union to finance the road
maintenance and construction program under its 9th European Development Fund.The risk is therefore low
of not creating the Agency. In addition, the Bank is consulted during the process to create the Agency.
Therefore, it was decided to proceed with the proposed project without waiting for the creation o f the
Agency.
- One alternative was to seek other financing than IDA. Other donors were consulted. None has currently
expressed its availability to finance entirely either the works on Bamako-Bougouni or on SCvarC-Gao.
European Community and the Islamic Development Bank have expressed informally an interest to finance
part o f the periodic maintenance works on SevarC-Gao because o f the social importance o fthe road and the
large amount o f the contract. A donors' meeting is envisaged in early 2004 to discuss financing of road
investments, which will include complementary works on SCvarC-Gao.
- Technical alternatives were reviewed for works on both roads as part o f the engineering and economic
study beingcarried out. These alternatives examined various structures. The final structure reflects the best
choice based on the economic justification o f works as well as considerations on road safety.




                                                     - 17-

2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                      Latest Supervision
             Sector Issue                                Project                         IPSRI Ratings
                                                                                 (Bank-fkance     irojects only)
                                                                                 Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

Inefficient sector public enterprises and Transport Sector Project                     S                S
poor performance of road maintenance (Report No. 12082-MLI, May
                                           5, 1994)
Rural road management and                  National Rural Infrastructure               S                S
maintenance                                Program (Report No.
                                           20500-MLI, June 2,2000)
Obstacles to movements o f goods           West Africa RegionalTranspon
within West Africa                         and Transit facilitation Program
                                           (under preparation)
Other development agencies
European Community                         SixthProgram: 2000-2002
                                           Pavement of Miyou-Macina
European Community                         Seventh Program : 1994-2002
                                           Pavement o f Ouan-Shark,
                                           S6gou-Koutiala,
                                           Koutiala-Faramana,
                                           Dikma-DidiCni and regraveling
                                           o f Dikma-Didieni
 European Community                        EighthProgram: 1999-2005
                                           Pavement o f
                                            Shark-Bandiagara,
                                           Bamako-DidiCni, Di6ma-Kayes
                                           NarCna-Kourkmalk,
                                            Kayes-Kidira, Gao-Ansongo,
                                           Asongo-Niger border,
                                            Di6ma-Nioro
                                            Improvement o f earth roads
                                            around Tombouctou
 European Community                        NinthProgram under
                                           preparation
 African Development Bank                   First RoadProgram
                                            WAEMUIGhana
IPlDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I I (Highly Unsati ICtOry)




                                                      - 18-

3. Lessons learnedand reflectedin the project design:
Support o f public railway companies i s neither effective nor sustainable. The experience o f the Transport
Sector Project, and similar operations in Cameroon and C6te d'Ivoire, which focused on institutional
strengthening o f public railway companies, did not result in significant improvement. This was due to
inefficient public sector management practices (lack o f commercial orientation, Government interference in
management, inefficient procurement procedures, lack o f accountability) and public services obligations not
compensated by the State, which provedto be major impedimentsto cost-effective operation o f the railway.
On the other hand, concessionning o f railway operations to a private operator has proved to be successful.
Such operations have been completed in Cameroon and C6te dIvoire and have dramatically improved the
performance o f the new railway companies.
The Bank experience shows that in the case of railways with a low profitability, availability o f donor
financing is key to the success o f the concessioning process. Without donor financing, it makes it difficult
to interest bidders because o f the financial risk associated with the operation. Donor financing however
should concentrate on infrastructure as the long-term reimbursement period is more appropriate in view o f
the long life of the infrastructure. Commercial lending is more expensive andneeds to be reimbursedover a
shorter period o f time (7-8 years) which makes it inappropriate for infrastructure but more appropriate for
financing o f equipment.
Financing o f redundancies needs to be accompanied by a social plan to mitigate their social impact. A
survey o f railway staff declared redundant in 1995 and 1997 in Mali demonstrated that money is not
enough and that support needs to be provided to the staff during a transitory period untilthey are settled in
new activities, This project supports training o f the staff and other support services for them to find
alternative employment.
The lessons from the ongoing Transport Sector Project(TSP) are the following:
(a) Country Absorptive Capacity: Projects should remain simple and adjusted to the country's absorptive
capacity for reforms and implementation. Too many demands for simultaneous reforms along with
implementation burdens tax the capacity of the government and implementing agency to deliver outputs on
schedule and achieve results.
(b) Project Design: Detailed engineering needs to be substantially completed before negotiations. The
absence o f detailed engineering
prior to negotiations for all major roads financed by the TSP resulted in variation o f quantities during
execution, leading to delays and cost increases.

4. Indicationsof borrower and recipient commitment and ownership
Important sector reforms have been implemented up front.
Inthe railway sector, the concession of railway services was awarded to ajoint-venture of private investors
inFebruary2003 and became effective on September 24,2003.
Inthe road sector, the Road Fundwas created inAugust 2000. It became operational inApril 2002 when
all its staff were appointed. Since 2002, the resources allocated to road maintenance in the Government
budget are managed by the Road Fund. The Government adopted a decree defining the resources o f the
FundinJune 2002. A by-law definingresources collected from overloaded trucks was also signed in2002.
These resources are deposited on the account o f the Road Fund. Resources collected from road user
charges will be transferred to the Road Fundstarting in2004.
The Government has decided to fully privatize roadmaintenance execution which was carried out untilnow
by force account. Since the Road Fund became responsible for managing road maintenance resources in


                                                    -19-

mid-2002, road maintenance works are now contracted out. The 2003 road maintenance program was
based only on execution by contract.
The Government has drafted a Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 11) which describes its strategy during the
coming period o f project implementation.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has played an active role in developing the Transport Sector Project, o f which this proposed
Transport Corridors Improvement Project (TCIP) is a follow-up. During TSP implementation, the Bank
advised the Government on sector issues which resulted in the launch o f the concessionning process for
railway services and the creation o f the Road Fund.
Duringthe TCIP implementation, the Bank will continue to advise the Government by bringing to bear its
experience in monitoring rail concessions, Road Fund operations and execution o f road maintenance by
contract. Advising the Government is key during this transitory period where capacity needs still to be built
on such aspects as regulation o f the railway concession, definition o f road maintenance programs,
promotion of SMEs and quality control inexecution o f road maintenance works.
The Bank is providing similar support to Senegal under the Second Transport Sector Project (Cr.
3183-SE). Together with the Transport Sector Project in Mali, the Senegal project financed advisory
services for the concessioning o f railway services. The Senegal project has also allocated funds to
rehabilitate the railway track. Both projects inMali and Senegal complement each other.
The TCIP will also be the link in Mali with the transport and facilitation component o f the regional
integration program for West African countries developed by regional institutions (West Africa Economic
and Monetary Union, Economic Community of West African States). This program is supported by most
donors and the Bank is a key actor with the European Union and the African Development Bank. It will
address issues along international corridors such as illegal road barriers, truck overload, implementation o f
customs procedures at borders, lack o f harmonization o f road transport regulations among countries, and
inadequate implementation o f interstate road transport procedures.
The Bank will also help Mali to incorporate HIV/AIDS issues and road safety issues inthe transport sector
based on its experience in other countries. A handbook on transport and HIVIAIDS has been prepared by
the Bank which provides guidelines for mitigating the impact o f transport projects. The Africa Region o f
the World Bank recently carried out an audit o f the road safety components in its projects. The report
became available in July 2003. The implementation team will include a road safety expert which will apply
the lessons o f the audit to the TCIP.
As explained in the paragraph on project alternatives, no other donor has resources currently available to
replace IDA financing. Lack o f resources for financing redundancies inthe public railway company would
jeopardize the concessionning process with serious negative impact on the social climate and the access o f
Mali to the port o f Dakar in Senegal. Inthe road sector, postponement o f periodic road maintenance on the
two roads included in the project would make the h t u r e rehabilitation works much more costly and also
impact negatively on the accessibility to the Gao region inthe North and betweenMali and the ports on the
West African coast.




                                                   - 20 -

                               Average Daily Traffic            Length
IBamako-Senou                         3.389                         2.0
SCnou-Sanankoroba                     1,351                         21.8
Sanakoroba-OuCltssCbougou              782                          45.1
Out16sstbougou-Bougouni                721                          84.4




              Investmentcosts Investmentcosts  Net PresentValue at 12%  IRR (%)
                (US$ million)  (CFAF million)       (CFAF million)
  Option 2.0        18.7          10,468               12,090            31.1
  Option 2.1        12.8          7,184                 8,263            28.1
  Option 2.2        18.5          10,353               12,615            35.0
  Option 2.3        16.7          9,329                10,954            31.7
  Option 2.4       13.7           7,645                 9,260            30.4




                                          -21 -

considered: (a) the first strategy supposes that only sections o f the road in poor condition are strengthened
and that maintenance o f sections in good and fair conditions is postponed until 2008 and 2010; and (b) the
second strategy supposes that all sections are immediately strengthened. The study was also carried out
considering with and without the widening o f the road from 6.0m to 7.0m. Detailed results are presented in
Annex 4.2.

                                                                                Net Present Value

                                     1                Investment costs                 at 12%
                                       Road's        (CFAF    I     (US$        (CFAF      I  (US$
Strategy                                width       million)      million)      million)     million)
Postponed maintenance o f sections      6.0m         19,484          34.8         5,261       9.40
ingoodandfair condition                 7.0m         21,291          38.0         4,222       7.54
IImmediate maintenance o f sections I   6.0m     I   17.675   I      31.6    I    5.793    I  10.34    I
ingoodandfair condition                 7.0m     I   19,302   I      34.5    I    4,448    I   7.94

Railway component
Investment urogram. The proposed works are part of the larger investment program envisaged by the
concessionaire. The economic analysis o f the works has therefore been carried out for the entire program,
including investments carried out on the railway track in SCnCgal. In the without project situation, the
railway is expected to progressively reduce its activity and eventually disappear in 2006. Indeed, in the
absence o f investments, the railway track, and thus the quality o f services, will continue to deteriorate,
clients will progressively abandon the railway and shift entirely to road transport when the roads between
Bamako and Dakar and Bamako and Conakry are completed. Inthe with project situation, the railway will
keep the freight for which rail is competitive, which consists mostly o f bulk cargo and containers. Rail
traffic is expected to reach 721,406 tons after five years compared to less than 300,000 tons in 2002, and is
expected to double in 20 years. These assumptions are reasonable in view o f the growth o f rail traffic in
CBte d'Ivoire after the private concessionaire took over. About 40 percent o f the program would be carried
out during the first three years o f the concession. The costs in the without project situation include the
investment cost to purchase trucks to replace the railway, the increase in road maintenance costs resulting
from the increase intraffic and the costs o f trucks operations. Detailed results o f the economic analysis are
presented in Annex 4.3. The cost o f investment is estimated at about CFAF 25 billion (US$45 million
equivalent) during the first five years o f the concession. The net value o f costs and benefits discounted at
12 percent is positive and amounts to CFAF 58.2 billion (about US$97 million) during the 20-year period
o f analysis.
Redundancies. The analysis carried out to evaluate the economic impact o f the redundancies in the railway
company confirms the justification o f the retrenchment plan. The number o f staff declared redundant is the
difference between the current number o f staff in the railway company (1,383) and the number o f staff
(750) to be kept by the concessionaire. The costs o f redundancies reflect memoranda o f understanding
signed between the Government and the personnel's unions in 1995 and 1997 at the time o f previous
retrenchment operations. First, redundancy costs were compared to savings on salaries and overhead costs
on personnel supported by the railway company. The resulting net present value discounted at 10 percent
amounts at CFAF 0.7 billion. Second, a more comprehensive economic analysis was carried out to
compare the overall costs and benefits o f the retrenchment for the country's economy. Benefits result from
additional productivity from redundant staff expected to find a new job and from saving on salaries and on
indemnities awarded at retirement. Costs include the cost o f redundancies and the cost o f measures to
mitigate the social impact o f the redundancies. The resulting net present value discounted at 10 percent
amounts at CFAF 1.2 billion.



                                                     - 22 -

2. Financial (see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 15.5 % (see Annex 4)
The main fmancial data for the railway concession are summarized in Annex 5 based on the financial
model prepared by the concessionaire. Inthe base case, the internal rate o f return is 15.5 percent.

Fiscal Impact:
During the first five years o f the concession, the concessionaire i s expected to benefit from the Investment
Code in Mali and Senegal. Specific arrangements have also been defined in an annex to the concession
agreement to cover the tax and customs arrangements for international traffic. The amount o f taxes and
duties payable by the concessionaire has been estimated inits financial model o f the concession. During the
25-year period o f the concession, the concessionaire estimates that about CFAF 67 billion o f taxes and
duties (about US$122 million) will be paid in both Mali and Senegal. This adds to about CFAF 48 billion
(USS83 million) o f concession fee paid duringthe 25-year period.

3. Technical:
N/A

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The railway concessionaire will be the executing agency for the railway civil works component o f the
project. The concessionaire is a consortium o f international and local firms and shareholders. It was
selected based on international competition. The concession arrangement is described inAnnex 12.
The Department o f Public Works will be the executing agency for the road maintenance component o f the
project until a new institution is created following the on-going process o f restructuring the Department and
creating a Road Agency. Responsibilities for managing the component will then be transferred to the new
agency. The Government is consulting with the Bank and other donors during the process to establish the
new institution to ensure that the new set-up will be satisfactory to the Association with respect to the
transfer o f project management responsibilities to the new institution.
4.2 Project management:
Project Coordination will be the responsibility o f the existing Transport Sector Project Unit created to
coordinate the Transport Sector Project. The unit has been efficient. I t has not substituted to the TSP
executing agencies which have always kept responsibilities for decision and implementation. The unit
advises sector ministries and executing agencies on Bank procedures. Because it is not involved in the
day-to-day management o f sector activities, it keeps some distance with mundane activities and has the
capacity to advise on broad or cross-cutting sector issues. The unit is playing a facilitator role for the
preparation o f a second Transport Sector Program which has started with financial support from the Bank
and the European Community. The unit is staffed with two high-level staff and a few administrative
personnel. I t will consolidate financial information provided by the railway concessionaire and the Road
Authority which will manage financial aspects o f the road maintenance component o f the project. The unit
will also consolidate information on project progress inprogress reports.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Country Performance Procurement Review carried out in early January 2003, highlighted the long
procurement procedures. As a contribution to address this issue, the World Bank doubled its procurement
staff in its Bamako office in early 2003. This is expected to accelerate the review o f procurement

documents on the Bank side.
The Department o f Public Works will be responsible for all procurement under the road maintenance
component o f the credit. The Department has experience o f World Bank procedures acquired under the
Transport Sector Project and more recently under the National Rural Infrastructure Project.
The current timetable for the creation of the Agency foresees that it will become operational during the first
semester o f 2004. This will be too late for the Agency to take responsibility for procurement and benefit
from its more efficient institutional arrangements including for procurement.
Under the concession agreement, procurement in the railway component will be managed by the private
concessionaire which has the financial incentive to reduce the procurement time to a minimum.
Detailed procurement arrangements are described in Annex 6 including an action plan to mitigate lack o f
procurement expertise.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Assessment of Financial Management System. The overall conclusion of the financial management
assessments is that, provided the following conditions are met by the PCU prior to credit effectiveness, the
Bank's financial management requirements will be satisfied: Finance Department established within the
PCU headed by a professionally qualified FM Specialist; computerized FM system installed; Financial and
Administrative Procedures Manual developed; Project Account and Special Accounts opened and initial
deposit o f counterpart funds made inproject account; and qualified external auditors appointed.
B y effectiveness, the project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the initial stage,
transaction-based disbursement procedures, as described in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook, will
be followed, i.e. direct payment, reimbursement, and special commitments. However, after project
implementation begins and when the borrower requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a review
will be undertaken by the Task Team (TT) to determine if the project is eligible.

Reportingarrangements.The project coordination unit will prepare quarterly project management reports
and annual project financial statements. The latter will show all project components and funding sources.
The concessionaire will provide annual financial statements since its financial viability is key to the project
success and needs to be continuously monitored during the period o f project implementation. The format o f
the project management reports (PMR) will be defined inthe Project Implementation Manual.
Audit arrangements.Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will audit the use o f IDA funds available
under the credit, including the Special Accounts and the Statements o f Expenditures in accordance with
international standards on auditing. Audit reports will be submittedto IDA no longer than six months after
the end ofthe fiscal year.
The arrangements for financial management are detailed inthe action plan inAnnex 6(b).
5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental and social impact assessment was carried out for the periodic maintenance works on the
two roads Bamako-Bougouni and Shark-Gao and for the railway operations managed by the
concessionaire. Each o f the assessments included an Environment and Social Mitigation Plan (ESMP), the
three ESMPs being then consolidated in the project's ESMP.
The following safeguard issues have beenidentified:
(a) related to the execution o f the road works on the road Bamako-Bouaouni: An environmental impact



                                                    - 24 -

  study (EIS) of the periodic maintenance works on the road Bamako-Bougouni was carried out to evaluate
  13 categories o f impact and define mitigation measures when necessary :
           (i)climate: Minimize clearing of land for works sites andrestorationof areas threatened by
  erosion.
           (ii) vegetation: As the road is already paved, its maintenance will not improve accessibility to and
  increase pressure on natural resources. The road does not cross any protected natural habitat. Vegetation
  on embankments and trees at the entry o f Bougouni will need to be protected during works execution.
           (iii)wildlife: N o particular impact has been identifiedas the project does not improve accessibility
  to the area which is already very good.
           (iv) erosion: No new excavation or new embankment will be created and no change inagricultural
  areas is envisaged as the project involves only periodic maintenance o f the existing road.
           (v) water: Road safety measures implementedunder the project will reduce the risk of accidental
  pollution by hazardous products transported on the road. Continuous pollution o f water has been not
  identifiedbased on consultation with populations along the road.
           (vi) health: Inhabitants in some villages complained that super elevation of the road created ponds
  attracting mosquitos. Borrowing pits may also be filled by water during the rainy season and attract
  mosquitos. The presence o f migrant workers may also increase the risk o f spreading HIV/AIDS.
           (vii) noise: The level of noise is not expected to increase after the project and will remain under 65
  dB which is acceptable for the populations.
           (viii) socio-economic: The impact o f the project will be positive. New jobs will be created during
  works execution.
           (ix) agriculture: The longitudinal profile o f the road will not be changed. N o land will be acquired
  for the project. N o fruit tree will be cut.
           (x) safety: A road safety audit defined measures to improve road safety. Measures include parking
  areas for trucks in large villages, widening o f the shoulders for bicycles and pedestrians, vertical and
  horizontal signaling and other measures listed inthe project description.
           (xi) landscape: Some modification can result from borrow pits. Abandoned cars along the roads
  also 'need to be removed.
           (xii) air quality: The project is located mostly in non urbanized areas where pollution o f air is
  minimum.The project will not have an impact.
           (xiii) habitations: N o need for resettlement has been identified. In case resettlement is unavoidable
  as a result o f the civil works, the resettlement policy framework agreed during project preparation will be
  applied.
  The EIS defines also mitigation measures to be taken during works execution and related to (i)        accidental
  pollution from oil changes or other petroleum products; (ii)          transport o f construction materials; (iii)
  drainage; (iv) restoration o f borrow pits; (v) solid wastes; (vi) protection o f trees and other vegetation; and
  (vii) protection o fwildlife.
  The cost o f the EMP including control and monitoring is estimated at about US$1.2 million which has been
  included inthe project costs.
  (b) related to the execution o f the roadworks on the road Shark-Gao: The impacts and measures described
. above are also valid for the road Skvark-Gao. The EIS proposes recommendations which are specific to the
  following issues specific to the road SkvarbGao:
           (i)Marketgardeningandcultivation ofpluvialricehas developedalongtheroadinareaswhere
  water is running from a superelevation.
           (ii) siteshavebeenidentifiedwherehabitations, restaurants,shopsandmosquesarelessthan10
               21
  meters from the road but they will not be touched by the works.
           (iii) Douentzareserve,anIUCNcategoryIVprotectedarea,stretchesforabout200kmjust
                The


                                                        - 25 -

north o f the road. The elephants of the Gourma live in the reserve. They constitute one o f the largest
survivingelephant populations inthis region o fAfrica.
         (iv) 20 km of road at 14 different locations will need to be reconstructed.        Most o f this road
construction will take place in fluvial zones, where the road crosses rivers, creeks, wetlands. O f particular
concern are the ponds ("mares"),especially the "mare d'Agoufou".
The cost o f the EMP including control and monitoring is estimated at US$0.66 million included in the
project costs.
(c) related to the concessioning o f railway services: An environmental audit has been prepared which
includes an environmental and social management plan. Both Governments o f Senegal and Mali and the
concessionaire agreed to the plan before appraisal. An Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
(ESIA) o f railway works on the most deteriorated sections o f the railway track in Mali was carried out
before appraisal. The conclusions o f the ESIA are summarized hereafter. Materials such as laterite and
ballast will be used to strengthen the railway track. Ballast will come from an existing quarry. Laterite will
come from borrow pits identified by the engineering study o f the works. Execution o f the works may also
impact on the health o f workers o f villagers because o f the dust o f laterite. The presence o f migrant
workers may also increase the risk o f spreading HIV/AIDS. Consolidating the railway platform may
require enlarging it by about 20 cm on one side or both sides o f the track. The ESIA o f the works did not
identify resettlement issues that may result from occupation o f right-of-way for residential, commercial and
farming purposes or from the extension o f the ballast quarry if its existing capacity is insufficient and from
the opening o f borrow pits for the laterite. No impact has also been identified on minor cultivations, trees
and bushes, buildings,commercial structures etc. along the track resultingfrom the widening o f the railway
platform.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental and Social Analysis (ESA) was undertaken before appraisal for both the road and rail
components of the project. The ESA further determined the extent o f environmental and social impacts and
made recommendations inline with the safeguard policies o f the Government o f Mali and Bankprocedures
and best practices. It reviewed the institutional framework for environment in Mali and provided
recommendations on the institutional arrangements for implementation o f mitigation measures and
monitoring o f the project impacts. The project Environmental Mitigation Plan consolidates the
recommendations, the costs and the institutional arrangements related to environmental measures. It
includes the Resettlement Policy Framework as well.

An environmental audit was prepared for the concessioning of rail services. The audit provides the
appropriate safeguard framework and measures, while highlighting the opportunities for enhancing the
positive synergy between privatization, social and environmental protection. The proposed project provides
support for the implementation o f recommendations provided inthe audit.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: January 21, 2004



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The EA reports for the works on the roads Bamako-Bougouni and SCvarC-Gao were made available at the
regional representations o f the Department o f Highways in Mali. Their availability, the place and the time
to consult the documents were advertised in local newspapers. The reports were also made available at the


                                                        - 26 -

Bank's Infoshop before appraisal.

Similarly, the EA report on railway operations was made available to the public in Mali, and in Senegal
and at the Bank's Infoshop before appraisal.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
The project provides for technical advisory services to monitor implementation o f the EMP and evaluate
the impact o f the project on the environment.
The Environmental Unit o f the Ministry o f Rural Development and Environment is the Government's
clearing house for environmental safeguards. It i s responsible for ensuring compliance with environmental
laws and regulation inMali. Monitoring reports will be submitted to the Unitfor review.

The concession agreement for rail services provides for the creation o f a unit comprising representatives
from the Governments o f Mali and SCnCgal and from the concessionaire to monitor compliance by the
concessionaire o f rail services with regulations in both countries, in particular those related to safety and
environment. The unit i s created and will receive training and support from environmental advisors.

The Department o f Transport will monitor the road accidents through its data base.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Impact o f retrenchment: The impact o f retrenchment on redundant staff in the railway company is a major
social issue. Retrenchment has resulted inthe loss o fjobs which is a traumatic event not only for the staff
concerned but also for their families who rely on them for their livelihood. Financial compensation inthe
form o f a "golden handshake" has proved to only partially overcome this trauma and mitigate the negative
social effects o f retrenchment schemes.

To address these issues, a comprehensive Social Action Plan was prepared, which includes a
communication strategy, the description o f the compensation package, o f the accompanying measures, and
of the institutional arrangement for implementing the Plan. Its objectives are to (i) the reinsertion o f
                                                                                       support
the workers declared redundant; (ii)      ease social tension resulting from the job losses; and (iii)     ensure
effective delivery o f the Social Action Plan to the workers affected. Implementation o f the communication
strategy started before the retrenchment took place. The Plan is detailed inAnnex 13.
Resettlement: No new land acquisition or involuntary resettlement are expected. The TCIP's activities
consist o f periodic maintenance o f existing roads and rehabilitation o f railways track. A 2 kmurban section
o f the Bamako-Bougouni road will be broadened from 2 to 4 lanes. However, no resettlement will be
required because broadening will take place in an area which is not occupied by houses, shops or other
buildings or activities. On the other sections o f the roads included inthe project, the project will not fund
any road enlargement or clearing o f right-of-way (ROW). Construction materials needed to execute the
works will come from existing borrow pits and ballast quarry, and will be bought from private
entrepreneurs. The EA findings for the railways works indicates that some o f the camp sites ("campements
de cheminots") established along the track have encroached on the ROW. While this issue goes beyond the
scope o f TCIP, which is not anticipated to clear ROW, mitigation measures are included in the
environmental and social mitigation audit preparedfor the operation o f the railway concession.
Given the magnitude o f the project and to mitigate the risk that local population will be negatively affected
by the project, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared by the Government o f Mali as due
diligence. I t defines procedures to follow if involuntary resettlement, loss o f assets or access to assets inthe


                                                     - 27 -

project were to occur.
HIVIAIDS and road safety The inflow o f migrant workers brought in the project area to execute project
activities may also increase the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS. Traffic accidents are already a risk for both
villagers and vehicle passengers. Studies on HIV/AIDS and transport, and road safety audits o f the road
works have proposed mitigation measures which are included in the Environmental and Social Mitigation
Plan prepared for the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
A preliminary study on the social impact o f the railway privatization was carried out during project
preparation. It was based on consultation with current and former railway workers. The study's findings
and subsequent action plan were discussed with the railway management and trade unions. This study.fed
into the elaboration o f a comprehensive Social Action Plan featuring among others, a communication
strategy. That strategy is aimed at maintaining a constructive and permanent dialogue between the staff and
the management, throughout the concession process and the implementation o f the Social Action Plan.
As described below, an association was created to provide support to retrenched staff. The members of the
Board o f the Association come from the civil society. The retrenched staff are also represented inthe Board
o f the Association to oversee the activities o f the unit and ensure that it provides the services required by
the beneficiaries.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The retrenchment plan was negotiated with the unions representing the staff o f the railway company.
Railway workers and trade unions in Mali constitute a closed "corps de mktier" akin to a guild. Hence, it
was not necessary to bring in "outside" NGOS or civil society organizations to handle the social issues
raised by the project.
Prevention o f HIViAIDS spreading along the project sites will be contracted out to a NGO with a track
record inHIV/AIDS activities.
6.4 What institutional arrangemcnts have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A Social Action Plan has been prepared to mitigate the impact o f the redundancies. A unit called the         I'
Cellule d'Appui a la Rkinsertion des Cheminots" (CARCHEM) was created with financing from TSP
during the first year and will be financed from TCIP during the second year. I t has the responsibility for
implementing the Social Action Plan. CARCHEM is a small unit that is expected to be dissolved within
two years following the retrenchment. By that time, it is anticipated that the retrenchedworkers would have
been given appropriate assistance, taking into account the constraints o f the Malian job market and
economic situation. CARCHEM will rely mostly on short-term consultants and local institutions involved
intraining, reemployment and other activities which can help redundant staff during the transition period
toward reinsertion inthe economy.

Arrangements regarding involuntary resettlement are laid down inthe resettlement policy framework.

6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms o f social development outcomes?
The Social Action Plan for the retrenchment contains provisions for monitoring its implementation and
performance. CARCHEM will provide the basic data. A survey will be carried out to monitor the impact o f
the social plan on the redundant staff after the first, second and fourth years o fproject execution.



                                                       - 28 -

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
There are no key compliance issues arising out o f safeguard policies applicable to the project. Project funds
include the resources necessary to implement the project's social and environmental action plan including
control during and monitoring after implementation.
The Road Agency is not created yet. A strategic environmental study will be carried out under the proposed
project to provide the framework for sound environmental management o f road maintenance. The study will
also evaluate the needs for capacity strengthening o f the Agency inenvironmental management.

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability o f road investments requires efficient management and sustainable financing o f road
maintenance, The creation o f the Road Fundprovides the framework for sustainable financing by involving
road users in the decision-making process on the level o f road maintenance resources necessary to execute
agreed road maintenance programs. The Letter o f Sector Policy defines the amount o f Government
resources to be allocated to road maintenance until 2007. The road maintenance budget will increase from
CFAF 5.88 billion (US$10.5 million) in 2003 to CFAF 13 billion (US$23.6 million equivalent) in 2007.
This will allow to cover entirely routine maintenance on the primary network as targeted in the Letter of
Sector Policy. Continued budget increase after 2007 would progressively cover a larger share o f periodic
maintenance mostly financed by external donors until now. Road user charges represent 14 percent of the
total road maintenance budget in2003 and should increase progressively to 100percent by 2011.
The Government has agreed to restructure the institutional framework for road maintenance management.
A new Road Agency will be created which will provide the incentive framework for efficient and
transparent management. The structure and responsibilities o f the Road Agency are being designed with
support o f the European Community. The Government is committed to make the Agency operational by
March 31, 2004 according to its Letter o f Sector Policy and its agreement with the European Community
under its 9th EuropeanDevelopment Fund(EDF).The RoadAgency will be financed by the Road Fund.

Concessioning o f railway activities to a private operator provides the framework for sustainable railway
investments and operations. The operator invests its own resources, which provides the incentive to use
efficiently these resources and to maintain the improved infrastructure. The concessioning process was
transparent and designed to select a highly qualified operator. The concession agreement provides the


                                                    - 29 -

framework to ensure that railway operations and management will be independent from Government
interference. The concession is granted for 30 years which is also a factor in favor o f stability and
sustainability.
The risk that staff, once laid off, are rehired,is minimal. First, the concessionaire designated the staff to be
laid off, It is not a voluntary scheme. The criteria for the decision on who is to be laid off is based on who
adds least value to the new railway company. The concessionaire will suffer a penalty if it decides to hire
staff who have been previously laid off as it will have to reimburse the retrenchment package to the
Government. This will be applied during a two-year period after staff are laid off. The period is not longer:
(a) to reduce the possible impact o f HIVIAIDS on the company's operations as well as the fact that the staff
are relatively old (47-year average) and to give the possibility to the concessionaire to hire staff with some
railway qualifications reducing the amount and the cost o f training; and (b) to take into account the fact
that the experience shows that a low percentage only o f staff which are laid off find a new job. The
monitoring studies included in the social planwill document what happens to the laid-off workers.

2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                      Risk                         Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Roads not maintained after completion o f              N           Involvement o f road users inmanagement o f
 works                                                              RoadFundand decisions on roadmaintenance
                                                                    programs. Creation o f Road Agency
 Widespread truck overload                              S           On-going implementation o f weighing stations
                                                                    along the roads. Sensitization campaign o f truck
                                                                    drivers and reduction o f illegal roadbarriers
                                                                    with support o f regional program being
                                                                    preparedwith regional economic institutions
 Poor management or private railway                     N           Monitoring o f performance by Concession
 company                                                            Monitoring Committee and terms o f concession
                                                                    agreement
 Lack o f availability o f rolling stock for            N           Monitoring o f performance by Concession
 railway operations                                                 Monitoring Committee and terms of concession
                                                                    agreement, support o f the donors' community
                                                                    through financing o f investment plan
 From Components to Outputs
 Insufficient mobilization o f local                    M           Ensure allocation o f counterpart funds,
 resources including counterpart funds and                          especially taxes, in annual budgets; agree with
 taxes                                                              the Ministry o f Economy and Finance on
                                                                    procedures to pay taxes
 Poor quality o f road works                            N           Include quality assurance plans in contracts
                                                                    monitoredby consultants which will supervise
                                                                    works execution
 Poor maintenance o f railway track                     N           Monitoring by concession monitoring committee
                                                                    and terms o f concession agreement
 Social disturbance resulting from                      M           Implementation o f social plan
 retrenchments
 Dverall Risk Rating                                    M




                                                      - 30 -

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Laying o f f staff o f the railway company is a possible controversial aspect. While payment o f severance
packages in October 2003 went smoothly, one remaining issue i s the retirement age which was taken into
account at the time o f payment. The retirement age was increased from 55 years to 58 years for civil
servants but not for the private sector, which was the statute o f the staff in the railway company. The
Government is contemplating to increase the retirement age for the private sector to 58 years as well. The
staff o f the railway company claims that the severance package should be adjusted on that basis. The
Government has agreed but the additional compensation remains to be paid.
This was addressed up front by the definition of a social and compensation planagreed between the unions
and the Government. The plan includes severance payment, job counseling and training. A management
plan of severance pay was also agreed to ensure transparency when redundant staff received their package
as well as accuracy when the retrenchment packages were calculated. A communication plan was defined
to ensure that all staff has the same level o f information on the concession and the social plan. The Social
Action Plan is described inAnnex 13.

G. Main Credit and Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions

0   The Borrower and the Concessionaire have appointed the consultant to be in charge o f the preparation
    of the Project Implementation Manual..
0   The Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited thereinthe initial deposit o f CFAF 88
    million.
0   The Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been signed and executed
    on behalf o f the Government and Transrail.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board Condition
0   Transmission to the Bank o f the signed Letter o f Sector Policy by the Minister of Equipment and
    Transport through the Minister o f Economy and Finance.

DisbursementConditions
0   N o withdrawals from the project accounts will be made in respect o f payments made for expenditures
    other than to support the railway concession until the Government has reimbursed the Association for
    amounts outstanding under Credit Numbers 021-MLI and 3318-MLI inthe order o f FCFA 30,771,5 17
    and FCFA 100,000,000, respectively.
0   No withdrawals shall be made inrespect o f payments made for expenditures other than for financing o f
    redundancies inthe railway company and to support the railway concession until :
   o     The Government has adopted and fumished the financial and accounting procedures manual
         (FAPM) and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) in form and substance acceptable to the
         Association.
   o     The Government has appointed an independent auditor o f the project financial statements with
         experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA
   o     The Government has established a computerized accounting and financial management system
         satisfactory to IDA
   o     The Government has appointed the key staff in the Project Coordination Unit: a chief financial
         officer, an accountant, and an environmental and social expert.


                                                     -31  -

    N o withdrawal shall be made in respect o f payments made for expenditures to support the railway
     concession until the Concessionaire has appointed an independant auditor o f thc financial statements o f
    the concessionaire with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA

H. Readinessfor Implementation
iXi 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
         o f project implementation.
    1. b) Not applicable.

3 2. Theprocurement documents for the first year'sactivitiesarecompleteandready forthe startof
       project implementation.
0 3. TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealistic andofsatisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowing itemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):

The procurement documents for the road works are being prepared by the consultants who carried out the
detailed engineering design study. For Bamako-Bougouni, the draft bidding documents are being reviewed
by the Bank and the bidding i s expected to be advertised the first week o f March 2003. For Shark-Gao, the
international consultant who carried out the detailed engineering study went bankrupt. The Malian
administration found an arrangement with the liquidators and the Malian consultants who were associated
to the study to produce the biddingdocuments which are expected to be received by February 20, 2004.

The concessionaire o f the railway company will be responsible for preparing the bidding documents for the
railway component. I t has the incentives to perform procurement efficiently.

A procurement plan has been prepared. Provisiono f the Project ImplementationPlan, acceptable to IDA, is
a condition o f disbursement for project expenditures, excluding those to finance retroactively payment o f
severance packages and the hiids retroceded to the railway concessionaire.

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
@ 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2.Thefollowingexceptions to Bankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                                                   A. David Craig
Team Leader                               Sector ManagerlDirector                   Country Director




                                                   - 32 -

                               Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                   MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                               Key Performance            Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives            Indicators                                         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:             Sector1country reports:    From Goal to Bank Mission)
4dequate provision of     Roads between Bamako and Road data bank,                  Jo dramatic variation of
mblic infrastructure      the borders with Burkina       comparative survey between nices on intemational
                          Faso and CBte dIvoire          Bamako-Bougouni and        narkets (cotton) leading to
                          passable and ingood            Sikasso-Zegoua             nacroeconomic stability
                          condition at the end o fthe                               'olitical stability
                          project (road component):
                          total surface o f potholes on
                          the roads not to exceed 5
                          sq-mperkmduringthe
                          period o f project execution
                          RoadbetweenBamako and Road data bank
                          Gao passable and ingood
                          condition at the end o f the
                          project (road component)
                          :total surface o f potholes on
                          the roads should not exceed
                          20 sq-mper kmduringthe
                          period o f project execution
                          Cumulative lengthof slow       Annual reports o
                          down ineffect for more than concessionaire
                          90 days on the railway track
                          between Dakar and
                          Bamako:less than 30 kmin
                          2007




                                                     - 33 -

                                 Key Performance             Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators                                         Critical Assumptions
'roject Development         Outcome / Impact                Project reports:            From Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                  Indicators:
 . Improve competitiveness Improvement o fturnaround Quarterly operational              dormal pluviometry
)falternative corridors to  time o f wagons between         reports o f concessionaire  Jo natural disaster
he ports on the West Coast Dakar and Bamako (rail                                       drought)
,fAfrica by rail androad    component): 14 days in
espectively                 2004 and 11 days in2007
                            compared to more than 20
                            days currently.
                            Share o f traffic on the        Annual reports on transport
                            Senegalese rail corridor        statistics by Transport
                            compared to the total of        Observatory
                            international trade o f Mali:   Annual reports of
                            The target is 25 percent o f    concessionaire
                            total traffic at the end o f
                            2007 compared to about 15
                            percent in2001
                            Customer satisfaction           Survey by consultants
                            survey : 75 percent of the
                            16 most important clients
                            o f the railway, based o n
                            their turn-over with
                            Transrail, will be satisfied
                            with Transrail services
1. Sustain accessibility to Increase inprice of cereals     Annual surveys by           Vormal pluviometry
heNorthern regiono f Mali inGao is not more that the consultants
                            increase inMopti, all other
                            parameters beingequal:
                            reference data inAnnex 15.
                            Access to Gao is maintainec Survey by consultants base(
                            duringthe period ofproject on Source methodology
                            execution :The average
                            speedbetween Bamako and
                            Gao should not fall below
                            65 ludhour




                                                        - 34 -

                              Key Performance           Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                          Critical Assumptions
                         Output Indicators:            'roject reports:            -from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
mprovement o f           Obiective 1 Rail
                                      -                4udited financial statements
,erformance o f railway  component:                    3 f concessionaire
:ompany                  Concession fee
                         Obiective 2  - Rail           Reports from CARCHEM
                         component:
                         Numberofrailway staff
                         that followed training
                         courses with support from
                         the project.
                         Numbero f staffwhich          Reports from
                         found a newjob or started a CARCHEM
                         personal business:20
                         percent o f redundant staff.
'reservation o f         Obiective 1  - Road           Final report o f consultant Efficient road maintenance
3amako-Bougouni and      component: Number o f         supervising works execution jystem (adequate financing,
3CvarC-Gao roads         kilometers o f roads                                      implementation capacity)
                         maintained on
                         Bamako-Bougouni (154km)
                         Obiective 2 Road
                                      -                Final report o f consultant Efficient control o f truck
                         component: Numbero f          supervising works executior overload
                         kilometers o f roads
                         maintained on Share-Gao
                         (407km)
                                                                                   Roadblocks along road
                                                                                   corridors do not increase in
                                                                                   numbers




                                                   - 35 -

                              Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchv of Obiectives          indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Project ComponentsI        nputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Componentsto
Sub-components:            :omponent)                                           0utputs)
A. Rail component
A.l Social and                 US$13.2million        Report by external auditor Social climate maintained
compensation plan               US$0.3million        Reports by implementation  peaceful after retrenchments
                                                     unit (CARCHEM)
A.2 Infrastructure             US$41.3million        Report by concessionaire   Regular maintenance o f
Rehabilitation and              USs1.9million        Report by social and       railway track after
Modernization                                        environmental expert in    completion of works
   Inputto civil works                               project coordination unit  Good management practices
   Social, environmental                                                        o f concessionaire
and institutional support
B. Road component
B.1 Civil works                US$71.7 million       Progress reports o f
                                                     consultant supervising     Mobilization o f resources
                                                     works execution            for counterpart funds and
                                                     Technical and financial    taxes
                                                     annual audit report        Good quality of works

B.2 Social, environmental       US1.3 million        Report by social and
and institutional support                            environmental expert in
                                                     project coordination unit
C. Projectmanagement            US1.2 million
                                                     Production of quarterly and
                                                     annual progress reports
                                                     Annual audit report by
                                                     external auditor




                                                  -36-

                                   Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                     MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$13.47 million
Rail component Social and compensation vlan
                   -     -

The component includes :
- financing o f severance payment: The compensation plan amounts to CFAF 7.9 billion (US$13.2 million)
for about 618 employees. These expenditures are financed retroactively and disbursements will take place
at effectiveness .
-  technical advisory services in the unit created to provide support to redundant staff: The unit is staffed
with manager and one long-term advisor. The unit i s expected to tum to existing agencies in Mali for most
-o operating
   f the support provided to the redundant staff. The costs o f services are estimated at US$115,000.
               costs o f the support unit: They are estimated at US$45,000 during one year including the
-salaries o f administrative staff, office equipment and one car.
   training and other measures to facilitate reinsertion o f redundant staff Training will be carried out by
extemal agencies. It i s difficult to estimate the costs o f these measures which depend on the demand
-expressed byo  the redundant staff. A provision o fUS$121,000 has been budgeted.
   evaluation    f impact: A survey will be carried out to evaluate the impact o f the social plan on the
redundant staff after the first, second and fifth years o f project execution. The cost is estimated at
US$23,000.

Project Component 2 US$43.33 million
                         -
Rail comvonent - Suvvort to concession

Infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization (US$43.06 million)
-Theinput
      component includes:
          materials for rehabilitation works on the railway track: The project will provide inputs (rail,
sleepers, ballast) and works will be executed by the concessionaire to rehabilitate the most deteriorated
sections o f the railway track between Bamako and the Senegalese border. The length o f priority sections
identifiedby the public railway company is about 134 kms.
-- spare parts and rehabilitation o f rolling stock;
   measures to mitigate the environmental impact o f past degradations: The measures are detailed in the
environmental and social management plan o f the project summarized inAnnex 14. Their cost is estimated
at US$1.8 million including civil works, equipment training and sensitization.

Institutional support (US$0.27 million)

--
The component includes:
  Audit ofthe concession after the third year o f effectiveness (US$30,000).
   Technical advisory services including training to strengthen the capacity o f the committee appointed to
monitor implementation o f the concession and compliance with the terms o f the concession agreement
(US$53,000),     annual survey on the satisfaction o f clients o f railway services (US$77,000),          full
environmental audit of the railway concession (US$53,000), manual o f procedures, IEC and training
(US$60,000).




                                                      - 37 -

Project Component 3 US$ 73.56 million
Road component Periodic maintenance o f road network
                   -    -

The component includes:
-  Periodic maintenance on two sections o f two critical roads which are part o f the North-South corridor: (a)
the 364 kmsection o fthe road between Bamako and Sikasso is part ofthe roadlinking Bamako, the capital
city o f Mali, to Abidjan, the port o f Cbte dIvoire through which between 60 percent and 80 percent o f
import and export goods transit; and (b) 200 km o f the most deteriorated sections on the 558 km road
between SCvarC and Gao. The cost is estimated at CFAF 10.7 billion (US$17.8 million equivalent) for
Bamako-Bougouni financed by IDA and CFAF 11.8 billion (US$19.7 million equivalent) for SCvarC-Gao.
Rehabilitation o f the Bougouni-Sikasso section is financed by the African Development Bank and the West
African Development Bank.
-  Maintenance o f sections o f SCvarC-Gao not subject to periodic maintenance (358 km): The cost is
estimated at CFAF 4.1 billion (US$6.8 million equivalent). Financing will be sought during a donor
meetinginearly 2004.
- Technical advisory for works supervision: The cost o f these services is estimated at US$2.8 million, seven
percent o f the costs o f the works.
- Measures to: (a) improve road safety (US$191,000): equipment for road safety data bank, adaptation o f
driving course teaching and exam documents to local context and language, second-hand articulated truck
for driving courses, study to improve both formal and informal teaching o f driving; and (b) to prevent the
spread o f HIV/AIDS resulting from the presence o f civil works contractors in the villages along both roads
(US$l 11,000). Measures to mitigate the environmental impact and additional measures to improve road
safety are included in the civil works contracts (specific measures on the sites during works execution,
vertical and horizontal signaling, parking areas in the villages, access to the customs area at the entry o f
Bamako). The cost o f these measures is estimated at CFAF 205 million (US$0.4 million) for protection o f
the environment and CFAF 458 million (US$0.8 million) for road safety on the Bamako-Bougouni road
and CFAF 311 million (USS0.6 million) for protection o f environment, and CFAF 8 million (US$l5,000)
for road safety on the SCvarC-Gaoroad.

Road component     - Institutional support

The component includes :
-  Technical advisory services for monitoring o f project impact : survey on prices o f products along the
Bamako-Gao road (US$18,000), measures o f vehicle speed on the two roads Bamako-Bougouni and
SBvarC-Gao and survey o f roads condition (four annual visual surveys and one measure o f roughness and
-deflection at the end o f the project- US$39,000).
   Technical advisory services, equipment and training to support implementation o f the reform o f the road
-maintenance   management institutional framework. The cost is estimated at US$0.45 million.
   Environmental impact assessment o f road maintenance, preparation o f an action plan and strengthening o f
the capacity of the RoadAgency to implement mitigationmeasures: US$107,000.
-- Annual technical audit o f road works during the first, second and thirdyears o fthe project: US$55,000.
   Second phase o f rural road studies started under TSP (US$0.36 million).




                                                     - 38  -

Project Component 4 US$1.15 million
                       -
Proiect manapement

The component will include:
-- Project'sannual financial audit: US$139,000
   Environmental monitoring: This task is located under project management as it will cover both road and
rail component. A local environmental and social expert will be recruited by the project coordination unit.
H e will be advised by an international expert through short-term missions. The total cost i s estimated at
US$233,000.
-  Operating costs of the project coordination unit: They are estimated at US$620,000 during the period of
project execution. Investment costs for office equipment, one 4-wheel drive and one regular car i s estimated
-atPurchaseof
   US$82,000.
              equipment for the Transport Observatory: Computers and office equipment (US$49,000).




                                                     - 39 -

                                              Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                      MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                                                                                      Local            Foreign                   Total
                         Project Cost By Component                                                US $million         US $million            US $million
 A. Railway component                                                                                                       0.00                    0.00
 A.1 Social and compensation plan                                                                     13.36                 0.11                   13.47
 A.2 Support to the concession                                                                         4.72                32.47                  37.19
 B.Road component                                                                                     21.36                46.55                   67.91
 C. Project Management                                                                                 0.93                 0.22                     1.15
 Total BaselineCost                                                                                   40.37                79.35                 119.72
  Physical Contingencies                                                                               1.83                 5.58                    7.41
  Price Contingencies                                                                                  0.28                 4.11                    4.39
                                                                                                                                                 131.52
                                    Total Financing Required                                   I      42.48         1      89.04                 131.52

                                                                               Local                  Foreign               Total
              Project Costs By Components                                 US$million                US$million          US$million
1  A. Railwav Comoonent                                             I                            I                   I                      I
        A.1 Social and compensation plan                                        13.36                     0.11               13.47
        A.2 Support to concession                                                5.24                   38.09                43.33
   B.Road Component                                                             22.95                   50.61                73.56
    C. Project management                                                        0.93                     0.22                 1.15
   Total Project Costs                                                          42.48                    89.04             131.52

                                                                                     Credit              Grant              Total
                      Project Costs By Category                                                                         US$million
                                                                                                    I1
 Civil Works
     1. Works to mitigatethe environmental impact of railway                                                                       0.45
     operationsprior to the concession(Govemment grant to
     concessionaire)                                                                      0.45
     2. Works on the SBvare-Gaoroad (IDA grant to Govemment                                                 13.40                 13.40
     3. Works on the Bamako-Bougouni road                                                12.28                                    12.28
 Goods
   1. Railway component
        i.Inputsforrailrehabilitation(Govemmentloanto                                     3.45                                     3.45
       concessionaire)
        ii.Equipmenttomitigatetheenvironmentalimpactof                                    0.13            'L                       0.13
       railway operationsprior to the concession(Govemment
       grant to concessionaire)
   2. &hers (IDA credit to Govemment)                                                     0.22                                     0.22
 Consultants'services (IDA credit to Government)                                          3.55      II                I            a rr


 Severance payment (IDA credit to Government)                                            10.00                                    10.00
 Training, workshops and seminars (IDA credit to Government)                              0.17                                     0.17
 Operating costs (IDA credit to Govemment)                                                0.48                                      0.48
 Unallocated (physical and price contingencieson civil works and
 equipment)                                                                               2.07              2.50                   4.57
 Total                                                                                   32.80              15.90                 48.70

   I
     Identifiable taxes and duties are 23.59 (US$m) and the total prqiect cost, net of taxes, is 107.91(USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 45.13%
   of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                       - 40 -

                              Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                    MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT



Summary of Benefitsand Costs:
Road Component
Methodolom. The economic analysis was conducted using the Highway Development and Management
(HDM-4) Model developed by the World Bank. The model simulates life cycle road conditions and costs
and provides economic decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance altematives, based on a
survey o f road characteristics, traffic, and agency and user costs. The analysis compares the incremental
benefits and the investment costs. Incremental benefits result from the variation invehicle operating costs
and road maintenance costs between the with and without project situations. Without project the road
deteriorates without periodic maintenance. Maintenance is limited to routine maintenance and patching of
potholes.
Periodic maintenance o f the road Bamako-Bougouni
The results o f the economic analysis are summarized inthe following table for five technical options
described inthe section on main assumptions.

                                  Urban                            Interurbansection
                                  section
 Solutionsobserved              Solution 1 Solution 2.0 Solution 2.1 Solution 2.2 Solution 2.3 Solution 2.4
                                                         I             I              1          I

 Section A (KP 0 to
 Carrefour vers SCnou)         I   16.6     I    NA      I     NA      1     NA       1  NA      I    NA       1
 Section B (Carrefour vers
 SCnouto Sanankoroba)               NA          55,3          473            55,3        56,8         55,3
 Section C (Sanankoroba to
 OuClCssCbougou)                    NA          35,l          31,6           32,3        36,3         31,6
 Section D (OuClCssCbougou
 to Bougouni)                       NA          26,2          24,5           25,O        27,2         24,5
 Net PresentValue discountedat 12 percent, CFAF million                                                        1
 Section A (KP 0 to
 Carrefour vers Shou)              340,2         NA            NA            NA          NA           NA
 Section B (Carrefour vers
 SCnouto Sanankoroba)               NA         4 213,8      3 217,l        4 213,8      3 775,9      4 2133
 Section C (Sanankoroba to
 OuClCssCbougou)                    NA         3 521,9      2 333,2        3 516,6      3 152,5      2 333,2
 Section D (OuClCssCbougou
 to Bougouni)                       NA         4 014,9      2 372,6        4 113,O      3 685,7      2 372,6

Periodic maintenance o f the Road SCvarC-Gao

With project, the most deteriorated sections o f the road are rehabilitated. Preventive maintenance (patching
and slurry seal) is executed on the sections in good and fair condition. The Table below provides a
summary o f the net benefits o f the project per section depending on the two technical options chosen as
described inthe section on main assumptions. The overall Internal Rate o f Retum (IRR) for the Project and
its Net Present Value (NPV) discounted at 12 percent are estimated respectively at 17.7 percent and FCFA


                                                     -41 -

4701.2 million for option 1 and 15.2 percent and FCFA 2961.4 million for option 2.
                         Option 1:Without broadening o f the road     Option 2: With broadening of the road
                                            width                                    width
                        Net Present Value                            Net Present Value
                           discounted at                                discounted at
                            12 percent          Economic Rate o f        12 percent       Economic Rate o f
                          (CFAF million)             Return            (CFAF million)          Return


Total                          5,261                   16.3                4,222                 15.3
SCvarC-Douentza                5,268                  23.9                                      22.7
1Douentza-Gossi        I        -475         I         11.1         I      -4,963
                                                                            1.046       I        10.0        I
Gossi-Gao                       468                    13.7                 322                  12.6

Total                          5.793                   16.0                4.448                 14.9
ISCvare-Douentza       I       4.73 1        I        23.2          I      5,137        I        21.4        I
Douentza-Gossi                  -396                   11.3                -1,178                10.1
Gossi-Gao                       666                    13.9                 254                  12.7

Works on the two sections Shark-Douentza and Gossi-Gao have a positive net present value. While the net
present value on the Douentza-Gossi section is negative, the reason is specific works along a pond and the
needto raise the level o f the road which would be otherwise destroyed. For this reason, the economic
justification o f the works on this section is considered acceptable.

The strategy retained for execution underthe project is strategy A and the option is option 1on the
SCvar6-Douentza section which has the highest level o f traffic and option 2 on the other sections. Option 1
on SCvarC-Douentzais chosen for road safety reasons.

Railway component
Rehabilitation o f the railway track between Dakar and Bamako

                                                    I     PresentValue of Flows         I
                                                         Economic          Financial
                                                          Analysis          Analysis
Benefits(CFAF Million):                                     73,488
Costs (CFAF Million):
     Investmentcost in railwaywith project                  61,624
     Investmentcost in additional transport
unitswithout the project                                    46,304
Differencebetweenthe two investments:                        15,320
Net benefitsdiscountedat 12%(CFAF
Million):                                                   58.168
/IRR:

1. Cost-benefit analysis was used to assess the economic retum o f the concession investment program
over the 20-year concession period. The benefits that have been quantified for the economic analysis are
essentially better productivity and efficiency of the railway after investments are executed. Without project,


                                                       - 42 -

diminishing productivity o f railway and freight is transferred to more costly road transport.

2. Additional benefits, which have not been quantified are: impact on the economy o f turning rail
transport from a heavily subsidizedactivity to a commercially profitable one, relieving the fiscal burden on
the national budget; and alleviating road congestion and improving road safety as freight shipment and
commercial passenger traffic transfers from road to rail. Another non direct monetary benefits consist in
reduce air pollution that comes from the difference o f fuel consumption between road and rail transport, in
the with and without projects scenarios, time savings for the transport of merchandise in the with project
situation.

3. The operating costs o f the railway company were taken from the financial projections established to
demonstrate the viability o f the railway concession. Road vehicle operating costs were derivedfrom recent
transport sector studies inMali.




                                         Initial costs   Net present value o f benefits discounted Economic Rate
Economic analysis                      (CFAF million)          at 12 percent (CFAF million)          o f Return
Level o fthe railway company                7,8 13                            748                       13%
Level of the country's economy              6,250                          1,162                        15%



MainAssumptions:
Periodic maintenance o f the Road Bamako-Bougouni
The road was built in 1965 and rehabilitated and upgraded between 1988 and 1990. Six bridges were
rebuilt in 1996. The wearing course is a double layer surface treatment which is reaching the end o f its life.
Low pluviometry has helpedto extend the life period o f the wearing course which is usually seven years for
the level of traffic supported by the road. The structure o f the road is deteriorated mostly on two sections
(between KP 133.4 and 141.2 and KP 151.7 and 153.1) as shown by the deflection campaign carried out as
part of the engineering design study. The average roughness, measured by the International Roughness
Index  - IRI, is 3.9 which is good. About 10 percent of the road has a roughness above 5.5 which is
moderate. 94 percent o f the road presents cracking with 29 percent being large cracking greater than 50
cm. However, this results from the action o f the sun and not from structural default. Rutting averages 8
mm and spalling averages 6 cm which remains moderate. The average number o f potholes which require
patching is 2.6 per km.On average, 2.2 potholes per km have already beenrepaired inthe past.

The results o f the traffic survey are given in the following table. The survey was carried out during seven
days, night and day.




                                                      - 43 -

                                          Senou           Sanankoroba                        Bougouni
                                         K P 10.5          K P 23.6          KP 68.7         K P 150.8
I Private cars                     I         1,352     III      509     II
                                                                        I Ouelessebougou III
                                                                                 309             329      1
  Minibuseslpick-ups                         1,653              514              202              92
  Buses                                          65              64               56              65
1 2 axle trucks                    I            107    I         78     1         63     1        60      I
  3 axle trucks                                  22              20                5               7
 4 axle trucks                                  124              97               93             109
 5 axle trucks                                   47              49               39              43
I 6 axle trucks                    I             13    I         14     I         12     I        13      I
 Articulated truck                                6               5                4               3
 Total                                       3,389            1351               782             721
 Percentage o f heavy trucks               11%                19%              28%             33%

A survey was carried out to measure the axle load of trucks. This survey shows that the percentage o f
overloaded trucks is important. Between 7 percent and 95 percent o f trucks are overloaded based on the
axle load regulation inMali. The highest percentages (above 70 percent) are reached for articulated trucks
which are also the heaviest trucks.

Traffic growth is estimated at 3 percent near Bamako reflecting the growth o f the population inthe capital
city o f Mali. Consumption o f gasoline and fuel oil has remained modest in the past. Based on this
conclusion, the average traffic growth is estimated at 2.5 percent between Senou and Sanankoroba and 2
percent between Sanankoroba and Bougouni.


  Section o f the         Option 2.0       Option 2.1            Option 2.2        Option 2.3        Option 2.4
 road
 Bamako-Senou         5 cm bituminous          5 cm          5 cm bituminous     5 cm bituminous 5 cm bituminous
                           concrete        bituminous             concrete          concrete           concrete
I                                            concrete
  Senou-             15 cm bituminous     triple surface     5 cm bituminous     4 cm bituminous 5 cm bituminous
  Sanankoroba              concrete    I       laver              concrete          concrete           concrete
  Sanankoroba-Oue 5 cm bituminous         triple surface     15 cm laterite and 4 cm bituminous     triple surface
 lessebougou               concrete            layer        triple surface layer    concrete             layer
 Ouelessebougou-      5 cm bituminous     triple surface     15 cm laterite and 4 cm bituminous     triple surface
 Bougouni                  concrete            layer        triple surface layer    concrete             layer

Periodic maintenance o f the Road Sevark-Gao
A technical survey o fthe road shows that 65 percent is infair conditionand 31percent is inpoor condition.
The proposedmaintenance consists instrengthening o f the pavement.
Two designoptions were considered, which have the same technical conception but not the same geometry:
         -- Option 1:Preservationo fthe existingwidtho fthe carriageway (6 m) and shoulders (2 x 1.50 m)
            Option 2: Widening o f the carriageway from 6.00 m to 7.00 m and narrowing o f the shoulders
from 2 x 1.50 mto 2 x 1.OO mto improve road safety and comply with ECOWAS standards.
Normal traffic in 2002, defined as the number o f vehicles using the road inits actual condition, is based on
the results of the traffic survey carried out during seven days, night and day in 2002 adjusted by seasonal


                                                      - 44 -

variations. The results are given inthe table below:




*Heavy vehicles include buses, Light trucks, Heavy trucks and Articulated truck.
The traffic history o f the road shows a 10 percent average growth rated during the last three years. Based
on this past trend, a realistic 8% annual growth rate was adopted during the period o f works (2002-2005)
and 10 percent until 2012, thereafter the annual growth rate drops to 3 percent in2013 and stays the same
until2022.

Rehabilitation o f the railway track between Dakar and Bamako

4. With the project :Freight traffic would increase by 10 percent a year and reaches 636,160 tons in
2007, then drop to 5 percent a year until 2011 before yielding an annual growth rate o f 1 percent for the
rest 11 years, by 2023 the freight traffic would double and would be around 949,993 tons. Commercial
passenger traffic would grow by an average 34 percent during the first two years and stabilize at about
90,000 passenger-kilometer a year. Concerning investment costs, the elasticity o f the rehabilitation o f the
railway depend very sparsely on traffic variations and It was assumed that the rehabilitation o f the south
road between Bamako and Dakar will be differedby 3 years.

5. Without the project. I t i s assumed that the national railway company would discontinue its
operations in 2008(i.e. in five years ) by which time, given current trends, the company would be virtually
bankrupt. As a result, traffic demand will gradually be diverted to road transport which would become the
only transport system in Mali in 2008. Rail freight traffic and passenger services would decrease very fast
until all railway services close at the end of the fifth year. In this situation the rehabilitation of the south
roadbetween Bamako and Dakar will not be differed

6. Results of the Economic Analysis.The net present value at a 12 percent discount rate amounts FCFA
francs 58.2 billion.    This indicator demonstrates the strong economic viability of the project. Most
economic benefits are generated by cotton, and general cargo traffic. Passenger traffic ought to be carried
by road modes as the rail mode is economically more expensive.

Economic justification o f retrenchment plan

The first analysis is carried out from the point o f view o f the public railway company. It is assumed that for
the company to reach the targeted level o f productivity, it would require to invest in new equipment
(computers, telecommunication) and training as demonstrated by the investment plan o f the concessionaire,
In the absence of such investment in the public railway company, all the benefits from the retrenchment
plan would not be achieved. This is translated in the calculation by a reduction o f benefits assuming that
part of the staff only is actually redundant, as it would be actually required in the absence o f investment.
The basic scenario assumes conservatively that 73 percent o f the redundant staff is actually redundant in
the absence of investment. The percentage was established on the basis o fan analysis of the structure ofthe


                                                       - 45 -

staff in the railway company. Costs are those o f the severance packages. Benefits are a reduction in total
salaries, including overhead costs (social security, contribution of the employer to the retirement system,
etc..) and a reduction o f operating expenditures estimated at 30 percent o f the salaries o f the redundant
staff.

The second analysis is carried out from the point of view of the economy. Benefits include the savings on
cost o f staff and the additional production generated by staff who are reemployed in an other job. Costs
include the loss o f production calculated in the first analysis above assuming that all staff is not actually
redundant inthe absence o f investment, cost o f indemnities as they will be borne by the State and not by the
railway company, the costs o f retirement if the staff is not laid off, costs supported by the economy
especially by the close family if the redundant staff does not find a new job, and the cost o f the social plan
to help redundant staff to find reemployment.

Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:

Periodic maintenance o f the Road Bamako-Bouaouni

A sensitivity analysis was carried out to measure the impact o f a reduction of benefits by 20 percent, an
increase o f investment costs by 20 percent and both reduction o f benefits and increase o f investment costs.
The results o f the analysis are summarized inthe following table.

                     Basic study    Benefits 20% Investment Costs +
                                             -                                 Benefits 20 YO
                                                                                        -
                                                             20%          Investment Costs + 20%
 Option 2.0
 N P V                  12,090           9,269              11,687                  8,866
 IRR                     31.1             27.5               28.2                   25.0
 Option 2.1
 N P V                  8,263            6,326              7,979                   6,041
 IRR                     28.1             25.7               26.1                   23.9
 Option 2.2
 N P V                  12,615           9,118              11,641                  8,143
 IRR                     35.0             28.8               29.9                   24.8
 Option 2.3
 N P V                  10,954           8 3 3 1            10,72 1                 8,297
 IRR                     31.7             28.3               28.9                   25.9
 Option 2.4
 N P V                  9,260            7,123              8,975                   6,838
 IRR                     30.4             27.6               28.1                   25.4




                                                     - 46 -

Periodic maintenance of the Road Shark-Gao

The results of the analysis are summarized in the following table for the two technical options and the two
maintenance strategies:

                                    Option 1 : Without broadening of the Option 2 : With broadening of the
                                                  road width                         road width
                                    Net Present Value Economic Rate     Net Present Value     Economic
                                     discounted at 12      of Return     discounted at 12 Rate of Return
                                      percent (CFAF                       percent (CFAF
                                          million)                            million)


Basic results                             5,261               16.3             4,222             15.3
Traffic increased by 10
percent, investment and
maintenance costs decreased
by 10 percent                             8,512               19.0             8,133             18.7
Traffic decreased by 10
percent, investment and
maintenance costs increased
by 10 percent                             1,670               13.3              642              12.5
Strategy B : Periodic Maintenance of sections in good and fair condition is carried out in 2004
Basic results                             5,793               16.0             4,448             14.9
Traffic increased by 10
percent, investment and
maintenance costs decreased
by 10 percent                             8,851               19.1              8,291            17.6

Traffic decreased by 10
Dercent. investment and
mainten'ancecosts increased
by 10 percent                             2014                13.3              228              12.2


Rehabilitation of the railway track between Dakar and Bamako

7. Three sensitivity analysis were conductedby switching values of the following factors:
Traf$c :An empirical test shows that the base line traffic has to drop by more than 27 percent for the NPV
at a 12 percent discount rate to fall to zero.
The closing date of the railway: Differing this date by three years in the without project situation shows
that the net present value of the project at a 12% discount rate is still positive and is around FCFA 49.2
billion.(i.e. about ten billion less than without this assumption).
Exchange rate: Given the weight of imported materials for the investments and the operating costs, a 25
percent devaluation happening in 2007 was tested. By this date the main investments in the with project
situation for the railway should be completed whereas investment for the renewal of the vehicle fleet inthe
without project situation will continue beyond the 2007 date. The net present value at 12 percent discount
rate for this situation is (FCFA 65.1 billion).




                                                       - 47 -

Economic justification o f retrenchment plan
The sensitivities assume an increase inthe compensation plan from a maximum of 60 months for negotiated
indemnities to a maximum o f 75 months or a decrease o f the compensation plan to a maximum o f 52.5
months. The results o f the economic analysis usingthese sensitivities are provided inthe following table.

                                           Basic scenario   Compensation plan Compensationplan
                                                              up to 75 months          down to 52.5
                                                                                          months

 Net Present Value o f benefits                 747                   -908                  1,719
 discounted at 10% (CFAF million)
 Economic Rate o f Return                      13%                     7%                   17%

 Net Present Value o f benefits                1,162                  -162
 discounted at 10% (CFAF million)
 Economic Rate o f Return                       15%                    9%




                                                   - 48 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
                 MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                      Years Ending
                        rI                      IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                          Year1  I year2    I year3    j year4  I Year5  I Year6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts           35.1       33.8       30.3       7.1
 Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         35.1       33.8       30.3       7.1      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total Financing             35.1       33.8       30.3       7.1      0.0      0.0      0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                 18.0       15.4        14.3      1.o
   Government                5.3        4.5        4.3       0.1
      Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
       Provincial            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers            11.8       13.7        11.6      5.9
User FeeslBeneficiaries       0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0
Transrail                     0.0       0.2         0.1      0.1




Total Project Financing     35.1       33.8        30.3      7.1      0.0      0.0       0.0
Mainassumptions:




                                           - 49 -

                   Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities




                      Year'      2004       2005       2006      2007      2008      2009         Average
                               I Forecast                                                         Annual
                                          IForecast /Forecast IForecast   IForecast IForecast   \ Growth
Income Statement Items (000's)
    Revenues                   I  23827   I  26218   I  27724  I  28883   I  30264  I 31953     I   5.5




Working Capital
    Net Fixed & Other Long     I  24089   I  35117   I  41143   I  43458  I  45869  I  49534     I
Term Assets




Revenue
Net Income as a % of Revenue   I   19.9   I   21.2    1  23.7   I  26.2    1  25.3  I   21.4     I
Return on Average Invested

Debt Service Coverage          1   9.47   I   4.29   I   22.68  I  16.31   I  7.24  I   0.91     I

Main assumptions:
These financial data are based on a forecast provided by the Concessionaire inDecember 2003. Since the
Concessionaire has yet to finalize its business plan and its investment financing plan, changes to the
numbers presentedabove are possible.




                                                  - 50 -

The concession traffic forecast by commodity is summarized inthe following table.

Table :Railway traffic forecasts (000 tons)

                     2004         2005         2006        2007         2008
International         592            682        715         743            775
Containers            110            121        127          133           140
Cotton                  80            96         98          100           102
Attapulgite           107            109        111          112           114
Fertilizers            45             50         50           55            60
Cereals                40             45         50           52            55
Fuel Products          56            112        118          123           127          130
Others                154            149        167          168           177          182
Vational               49    I        49 I       49           49    1       49       1  49
Total                 641    I       731  I     764         792     1      824     1    858




                                                  -51-

                                 Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                  MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

Procurement
1.       Assessment ofNutional Procurement Code. The Malian Procurement Code, revised in 1999 with
IDA assistance, is generally sound. N o special exemption, permit or license needs to be specified in credit
documents for Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) as Mali allows Bank procedures to take precedence
over any contrary local regulation or practice.

A CPAR prepared in 1998, has pointed out the main issues such as lack o f capacity among the staff o f the
borrower, absence o f standard bidding document at the national level, insufficient capacity o f domestic
contractors to face larger contracts subject to ICB, and corruption practice. Recommendations were
provided to address these diverse issues. In addition an IDF Grant was offered in order to strengthen the
capacity o f the Borrower in procurement, to modemize the procurement process, and to improve the
regulation. Some improvement needs still to be done. However, the designated agencies for the execution o f
the Transport Corridors Improvement Project are among the best performers inprocurement inMali.

A CPAR update is being carried out: the recommendations and action plan will be taken into account
during the execution o f the project.

2.        Guidelines. With the exception inthe second alinea o f the present paragraph, all works and goods
financed under the credit will be procured inaccordance with the Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA credits, January 1995 and as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and as revised in September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002. The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and civil works will be
used. For consulting services, the Bank's standard documents for requesting proposals and for contracts
will be used. National Competitive Biddingadvertised locally (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA which allow that: (a) any bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids
(four weeks for contracts exceeding US$50,000 equivalent); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are
clearly specified; (c) no preference margin is granted to domestic contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible
foreign firms are not precluded from participation; (e) contracts provide for security in amounts sufficient
to protect the Borrower in case o f breach o f contract (without distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing
the first call for bids, draft standard biddingdocuments are submittedto IDA and found acceptable; and (g)
award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.

         The railway concessionaire will be free to procure the goods purchased for track rehabilitation
from eligible sources, using its own procedures. The concessionaire was selected under I C B procedures
acceptable to the Bank. The Bank reviewed all bidding documents and the proposed award. Other civil
works, goods and services supplied under the grant provided by the Government o f Mali to the
concessionaire to mitigate past environmental impacts o f railway activities before the concession became
effective, will be procured in accordance with the procedures described in the first alinea o f the present
paragraph.

         Table A summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs and the proposed methods o f
procurement.

3.       Advertising. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in the UN


                                                    - 52 -

Development Businessand in a newspaper with national circulation as provided under the Guidelines. The
GPN will list all goods and works contracts to be procured through ICB (i.e. with an estimated cost o f the
equivalent o f US$ 500,000 or more for works, and US$ 250,000 or more for goods) and large contracts for
consultants services (i.e. with an estimated cost the equivalent o f US$ 100,000 or more). It will be updated
annually and the update will show all outstanding ICB and all large consulting services as described above.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under I C B and N C B
procedures, inaccordance with the Guidelines. A request for expression o f interest will be required for each
consultant contract estimated to costs US$200,000 or more prior to the preparation o f the short-list, in
accordance with the Guidelines. The GPN, specific notices for the road works and the request for
expression o f interest to select the consultants for the supervision o f the road works was drafted at
appraisal.

4.       Civil Works. Periodic maintenance o f roads and rehabilitation o f the railway track, will result in
large contracts and are likely to attract foreign bidders. The contracts will be tendered through I C B
procedures, for an estimated total value o f US$37.6 million. Contracts which cost less than US$500,000
equivalent per contract may be procured under NCB procedures. Eligible domestic contractors bidding for
works would receive a 7.5 percent preference margin inbid evaluation, in accordance with the Guidelines.
Contracts which cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract and are procured by the railway
concessionaire for environmental works may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded
on the basis o f quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation.

5.       Goods. Depending on the decision o f the concessionaire,, the project may finance supply o f rails,
turnouts, fasteners, sleepers and ballast instead o f civil works for rail rehabilitation. Bid packages
estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be tendered through ICB. Eligible domestic contractors bidding
for goods under ICB would receive a maximum o f 15 percent preference margin in bid evaluation, in
accordance with the Guidelines. Contracts for office equipment, materials available locally and vehicles
which cost less than US$250,000 equivalent may be procured under N C B procedures. Small quantities o f
goods such as office supplies, consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off-the
shelf at competitive prices and which cannot be grouped into packages o f at least US$50,000, will be
procured through prudent local or international shopping, based on price quotation obtained from at least
three reliable suppliers. Office equipment to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract and
vehicles may be procured from IAPSO.

6.       Consulting services. Consulting services financed by IDA, totaling US$3.3 million, will be for :
(a) feasibility and engineering studies, preparation o f bidding documents, supervision o f works, setting up
accounting management system, financial management support and canying out o f financial and technical
audits; (b) technical advisory services for capacity building and support to reforms implementation; (c)
technical advisory services in the unit created to support redundant staff in the railway company; and (d)
monitoring implementation and impact o f the project. Consultants will be selected through competition
among qualified short-listed firms through a "Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)" process that takes
into account the quality o f the proposal and the cost o f the services, with a relative weight given to both
criteria depending on the nature o f the assignment. For financial audits and services, works supervision,
concerning small contracts if any, and other services o f a standard nature, the "Least Cost (LC)" selection
process will be used, the fm with the lowest price being selected provided that its technical proposal
receives the minimum qualifying score. Services valued under US$lOO,OOO per contract which do not
require firms may be procured using individual consultants. Services for : (a) research activities and
activities requiring specialized expertise; and (b) training o f redundant railway staff, estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract may be procured under selection based on consultants' qualifications.


                                                     - 53 -

Consultant will be selected through comparison o f at least three curriculum vitae among those expressing
an interest inthe assignment or approached directly in accordance with the Guidelines, andjudged against
their qualification and experience. Single Source selection will be used in exceptional cases in accordance
with the Guidelines.

7.       Review by IDA. Prior review will be required for all contracts for civil works for US$500,000
equivalent or more and all contracts for goods for US$250,000 equivalent. Prior review will be required
for the following contracts procured by the railway concessionaire : (a) the first three contracts procured
under NCB; (b) the first three contracts procured under national shopping; (c) the first three contracts for
small works; and (d) any amendment to a contract raising its value above the equivalent o f US$250,000for
goods and US$500,000 for works. All contracts with consulting firms equal or exceeding the equivalent o f
US$lOO,OOO will be subject to a prior review.         Prior review will be required for all contracts with
individual consultants above US$50,000 or equivalent (no individual contract is expected to exceed
US$lOO,OOO). The exception to prior review for consultant contracts does not apply to terms o f reference
for such contracts, single-source hiring, assignments o f critical nature as determined by IDA and to
amendments to contracts raising their value above the US$lOO,OOO equivalent threshold for firms and
US$50,000 equivalent threshold for individual consultants. Prior review would cover about (to be
completed) percent o f the total value o f contracts financed by the IDA. Documentation for contracts not
subject to prior review will be maintained for ex-post reviews by auditors and IDA supervisory staff, For
all civil works contracts for which there are less than three bidders and for any decision not to select the
lowest evaluated bidder, IDA'Sapproval is required prior to notifying the winning bidder.

8.       Procurement readiness and procurement arrangements. All bidding documents for the road
works will be ready before credit effectiveness. They are being prepared by the consultants who carried out
the feasibility and detailed engineering studies. The General Procurement Notice, Specific Procurement
Notices for road works, and a request for expression o f interest for road works supervision was prepared
during appraisal mission. Arrangements for the preparation o f bidding documents for railway works were
discussed with the concessionaire during appraisal. The procurement plan was updated during the appraisal
mission. It describes all steps required during the procurement procedure as well as provides a monitoring
tool to identify emerging delays and provide the basis for action.




                                                    - 54 -

Procurement methods (Table A)



                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)




" Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank CreditiGrant. All costs include
  contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
  contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
  costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local govemment units.




                                                        - 55 -

                    Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                     (US$ million equivalent)

                                                    Selection Method
  Consultant Services
 Expenditure Category   QCBS       QBS      SFB       LCS      CQ      Other  N.B.F. Total cos<
A. Firms                 3.51      0.00     0.00      0.13     0.00    0.15   0.40     4.19
                        (2.83)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.10)   (0.00)   (0.10) (0.00)   (3.03)
B. Individuals           0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    0.50   0.00      0.50
                        (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.40) (0.00)   (0.40)
                  Total  3.51      0.00     0.00      0.13     0.00    0.65   0.40     4.69
                        (2.83)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.10)   (0.00)   (0.50) (0.00)   (3.43)




                                              - 56 -

 Prior review thresholds (Table B)




                                   Contract Value                                            Contracts Subject to
                                      ThreshoId                     Procurement                   Prior Review
  Expenditure Category             (US$ thousands)                     Method                     (US$ millions)
 1. Works                                 500                           I C B                        38.78
t
 2. Goods                                 250                           I C B                         5.16

 3. Services
 Consulting firms (full                   100                          QCBS                           3.51
 review)                                                                L C
 Consulting firms (quick
 review)
 Individual consultants                   50                           Other                          0.65

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$43.5 million
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            Average
       Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed:                One every 6 months
                                                                          (includes special procurement supervision for
                                                                          post-reviewiaudits)



         Expertise required               Level o f expertise o f staff                   Action
Preparation o f bidding documents,                   Good                 Review o f procurement documents
requests for proposals,                                                   by World Bank staff as part
bid/proposal evaluation                                                   regular procurement supervision
                                                      Poor                Training requested before
                                                                          involvement inprocurement
                                                                          process
Procurement filing                                                         A filing planwill be defined during
                                                                           appraisal and included inthe
                                                                           Manual o f Procedures
                                                                           Filing will be reviewed during
                                                                          procurement supervision missions
Contract management                                  Good                  Production o f monthly inanagemen
                                                                           reports requested
                                                      Poor                 Staff cannot be responsible for
                                                                           contract management

'iThresholdsgenerally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     -57 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                  MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

Financial Manavement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment

Implementing Entity
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be the continuation of the unit created to coordinate the on-going
Transport Sector Project (Projet Sectoriel des Transports    - PST). The PCU will thus benefit from PST
experience in term o f managing IDA funds. It will be in charge o f all aspects o f financial management o f
the project. The main recommendations below relative to the Financial staff, to the information system
organization, and to the audits should be implemented before the effectiveness o f the project.

Staffing
PCU will appoint a Financial Management Specialist (FMS) with academic and professional qualification
acceptable to the Bank. Reporting to the Project Coordinator, FMS should be capable o f directing and
guiding the financial management operations of the Project. S/he will be supported by an accounting
assistant. Appropriate training will be given to FM staff in the following areas: (a) financial management,
including internal controls, information systems and computer applications; (b) procedures relating to use
o f funds e.g. IDA (Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, FMR etc.) and
Government regulations; and (c) performance measurement. On-the-job coaching will also be provided.

Riskanalysis
The overall conclusion of the Mali Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out in
2002 and completed in 2003 i s that "the public finance management system is fairly coherent with
relatively strong budget procedures implemented within a clear institutional setting with improving and
strengthened control measures". It goes on to add that "This reality should not hide malfunctions for
which appropriate dispositions should be taken." In essence, the CFAA shows that significant progress
has been made in the areas o f financial management. The country's own control systems are operating
more efficiently despite a few weaknesses inthe supervision o f projects .

Consequently various measures to mitigate these risks have been agreed and thus the project risk from a
financial management perspective is considered as moderate provided the risk mitigating measures are
properly addressed. Therefore financial management arrangements for PCU are designed to ensure that
funds are used for the purpose intended, and timely information is produced for project management and
government oversight, and facilitate the compliance with IDA fiduciary requirements.




                                                   - 58 -

Weaknesses and how they will be addressed are listed below.

 Significant Weaknesseshtisks                      Resolution
 TPCU established under the TSP project             . Set up Finance Department inTPCU
 without its own finance department, financial
 management responsibilities being shared
 between the Ministryo f Equipmentand
 Transport's administrative and accounting
 department and technical assistance from a loca:
 accounting firm
 TPCU does not have qualified FMS and               . Appoint professionally qualified and
 accounting assistant                               experienced FM Specialist and accounting
                                                    assistant on clearly defined Terms o f Reference
                                                    (TOR) that are acceptable to IDA.
 Existing coordination unit o f the Transport       . Retain a FMConsultant to install a
 Sector Project does not have Financial             computerized FMS inPCU and train staff.
 Management Systems                                 * FMConsultant to design the FM
                                                    arrangements and prepare a detailed Financial
                                                    Administrative Procedures Manual (FAPM) for
                                                    PCU.
~The association CARCHEM, which will providi        * Establish CARCHEM, commence its
 support to the redundant staff o f the railway     operations and train its financial management
 company, has no experience inIDA fiduciary         staff.
 tlrocedures.
 External Auditors have not been appointed          . Appoint relevantly qualified, experienced and
                                                    independent external auditors will be appointed
 AvailabilityDelay inprovision o f Counterpart      by PCU on TORSacceptable to the IDA.
 h d s                                              . Openproject account and release the deposit


Information Systems
A computerized FM System will be implemented to manage the project resources. A Financial
Management Consultant (FMC) will be appointed to design and install the system in PCU. Terms of
reference are in the project files. She will also train financial staff on the use o f the system. A Financial
and Administrative Procedures Manual (FAPM) will be developed by the FMC.

Financial Reporting and Monitoring
Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared by PCU and hmished to IDA for the purpose o f
monitoring project implementation. Monthly: (i)    A Bank Reconciliation Statement, @)Statement of Cash
position, (iii)Statement o f expenditures, (iv) Statement o f Sources and Uses o f funds; Quarterly: (i)
Financial Reports, (ii)Physical Progress Reports, (iii)Procurement Reports, (iv) SOE withdrawal
schedule, (v) Special account statement and reconciliation; Annually: Annual project financial statements
consisting o f the following: (i)
                                A Statement of Sources and Uses of funds (by Credit Categoryhy Activity
showing IDA and Counterpart Funds separately); (ii)       A Statement of Cash Position for Project Funds
from all sources; (iii) Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank accounts (including IDA
Special Account) to the bank balances shown on the Consolidated Statement o f Sources and Uses o f funds;
(iv) SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual withdrawal applications relatingto disbursementsby the
SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount; (v) Notes to the Financial Statements. Indicative


                                                     -59  -

 formats for the reports are outlined in two Bank publications: (a) quarterly FMRs in the FMR Guidelines,
 and (b) monthly and annual reports in the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
 (FARAH).

 AccountingPolicies and Procedures
 Project accounts will be maintained on an accurate basis, augmented with appropriate records and
 procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Accounting records will be maintained in dual
 currencies (Le. CFA and SDR). The Chart o f Accounts will facilitate the preparation o f relevant monthly,
 quarterly and annual financial statements, including information on the following:
0    Total project expenditures;
0    Total financial contribution from each financier;
     Total expenditure for each project component'activity; and.
0    Analysis o f total expenditures for civil works, goods, training, consultants and other procurement and
     disbursementcategories.
 Annual financial statements will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards
 (IASs). All accounting and control procedures will be documented in the FAPM, a living document that
 will be regularly updated by the FMS.
 2. Audit Arrangements

 a. Audit of PCU

 The IDA Agreement will require the submission o f Audited Project Financial Statements for PCU to IDA
 within six months after year-end. Relevant qualified external auditors will be appointed by PCU on TORS
 acceptable to IDA. A single opinion on the Audited Project Financial Statements in compliance with
 International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), will be required including the accuracy and the propriety o f
 expenditures made under the SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis
 for credit disbursements.
 Inadditionto the audit reports, the external auditors will be expected to prepare a Management Letter
 givingobservations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements inaccounting
 records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants inthe IDA agreement.

 b. Other external audits

For the project, the annual audit reports o f the railway company (concessionaire) and the Road Agency after
its creation will also be required and transmitted to the World Bank in the same terms and conditions as o f
project audit.

 3. DisbursementArrangements

 The overall project funding will consist o f IDA Credit and Counterpart Funds.The following accounts will
 be maintained by PCU:
 (i) Special Account A inFCFA which will bemanagedby PCUandusedto makepayments to
 suppliers in the respective contract currencies for the credit portion o f the IDA financing, including
 CARCHEM based on monthly invoices according to terms o f a formal contractual agreement;
 (ii) Special Account BinFCFA which will bemanagedby PCUandusedto make paymentsto
 suppliers inthe respective contract currencies for the grant portion o fthe IDA financing;
 (iii) Special Account inFCFA which will be managedby the railway concessionaire andusedfor
 payments to suppliers inthe respective contract currencies; and



                                                       - 60 -

(iv)     A Project Account in FCFA with a commercial bank into which Counterpart Funds will be
deposited.

Interest income received on the Special Accounts will be deposited to the respective project account or any
other account o f the borrower. Additionally, PCU will maintain an IDA Ledger Loan Account
(Washington) in FCFNSDR to keep track o f drawdowns from IDA credit. The account will show (a)
deposits made into the Special Accounts by IDA, (b) direct payments, reimbursements or special
commitments issued by IDA, and (c) opening and closing balances. Advances will be made to PCU when
the conditions for credit effectiveness are met.All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statementson
a monthly basis by the Finance Department. Detailed banking arrangements, including control procedures
over all bank transactions (e.g. cheque signatories, transfers, etc.) will be documented inthe FAPM.

Method Of Disbursement
By effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the initial stage, the
transaction-based disbursement procedures (as described in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook) will
be followed, i.e. direct payment, reimbursements, special commitments and replenishments o f the Special
Account.

When project implementation begins, the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) produced by the
project will be reviewed. Where the reports are adequate and produced on a timely basis, and the borrower
requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a review will be undertaken by the Financial
Management Specialist in the World Bank team to determine if the project is eligible. The adoption of
report-based disbursements by the project will enable it to move away from time-consuming
voucher-by-voucher (transaction - based) disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Project's
Special Account, based on FMRs. Detailed disbursement procedures will be documented in the FAPM.




                                                     -61 -

 Allocation of creditlgrant proceeds (Table C)
                              Table C :Allocation of Credit/GrantProceeds

             ExpenditureCategory                   Credit        Grant            Financing
                                                (US% million) (US$ million)      percentage
1. Civil Works                                                                    76 percent
    a. Part B.2. Works to mitigate the              0.45
environmental and social impacts of railway
operationsprior to the concession
    b. Part C.1 (b). Works on the SevarC-Gao                      13.40
road
    c. Part C.1 (a). Works on the                  12.28
Bamako-Bougouni
2. Goods                                                                      100 % of foreign
                                                                              expenditures and
                                                                                80% of local


        i.PartB.1Inputsforrailway                   3.45
rehabilitation
        ii.PartB.2.Equipmenttomitigatethe           0.13
environmental impacts of railway operations
prior to the concession
    b. Part C. Other                                0.22
3. Consultants' services, audits                    3.55                             80%
4. Training, seminars and workshops                 0.17                             100%
5. Severance pay under Part A.1                     10.00                          100% of


6. Operating costs                                  0.48                             80%

              .. .                     -
on civil works and equipment)                       2.07           2.50
TotalProject Costs with Bank Financing             32.80          15.90
ITotalProiect Costs                            I   32.80     I    15.90      I                   I


Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursementsfor all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for items claimed under
the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedure. SOEs will be used for payments claimed under contracts
for: (a) works in an amount inferior to US$500,000, (b) goods in an amount inferior to US$l50,000; (c)
consulting firms in an amount inferior to US$lOO,OOO; (d) individual consultants in an amount inferior to
US$50,000. SOEs will likewise be utilized for all small equipment, office supplies and training.
Documentation supporting all expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by PCU, and will be
made available for review when requested by IDA periodic supervision missions and project external
auditors All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the
procedures defined inthe DisbursementLetter.


                                                  - 62 -

 Special account:
To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, three Special
Accounts in local currency (FCFA) will be opened by PCU and the railway concessionaire, respectively in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocations would be FCFA
1.3 billion for the PCU, and FCFA 450 million for the Concessionaire under the Credit. An authorized
allocation o f FCFA 1.2 billion will be made available to the PCU under the Grant. The respective
allocations will cover about four months o f eligible expenditures. PCU and the railway concessionaire will
be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents
for expenditures. To the extent possible, all o f IDA'Sshare o f expenditures should be paid through the
special accounts. The Special Accounts will be replenished through the submission o f Withdrawal
Applications on a monthly basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as
required until such time as the borrower may choose to convert to report-based disbursement. In lieu of
Special Account, the borrower may also choose to pre-finance project expenditure and seek reimbursement
from IDA.

Upon credit effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount o f FCFA 650,000 into Special Account A, FCFA
225,000 into Special Account B and FCFA 600,000 into the Special Account C managed by Transrail,
representing fifty percent o f the authorized allocations. The Special Accounts will be used for all payments
inferior to twenty percent o f the authorized allocation and replenishment applications will be submitted
monthly. Further deposits by IDA into the Special Accounts will be made against withdrawal applications
supported by appropriate documents.

Counterpartfunds andtaxes

The concessionaire will be responsible for financing the counterpart funds including taxes due on the
contracts for which it i s responsible under the rail component o f the project. The tax and customs regime is
defined ina specific convention signedby the Governments o fMali and Senegal. The Borrower will finance
counterpart funds including taxes due for other expenditures.




                                                      -63 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
               MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


 Project Schedule                                            Planned                      Actual
 Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                              16
 First Bank mission (identification)                                                     06/06/2002
 Appraisal mission departure                              01/05/2004                     01/23/2004
'Negotiations                                             01/23/2004                     01/28/2004

1Planned Date of Effectiveness                            0610112004


Prepared by:
Ministry o f Equipment and Transport
Delegate Ministry at the Ministry o f Equipment and Transport, in charge o f Transport
 TRANSRAIL, concessionaire o f railway operations between Dakar and Bamako


 Preparation assistance:
 Transport Sector Project (Cr. 2716-MLI)

 Bank staff who worked on the project included:
         Name                                             Speciality
 Jean-Noel Guillossou                     Sr. Transport Economist, Task Team Leader
 Yvette Laure Djachechi                   Social Development Specialist
 Abdelghani Inal                          Highway Engineer, Consultant
 John Buursink                            Environmental Specialist, Consultant
 Cheick Traore                            Procurement Specialist
 Karim-Jacques Budin                      Railway Specialist, Consultant
 Nestor Coffi                             Financial Management Specialist
 Zakariae Cherkaoui                       Intern
 Hang Sundstrom                           Program Assistant
 Hans Wabnitz                             Sr. Counsel
 Wolfgang Chadab                          Finance Officer
 Mahine Diop                              Urban Development Specialist
 Renee Desclaux                           Finance Officer
 Meriem Tamarzizt                         Intern
 Luisa Velardi                            Sr. Transport Specialist, Peer Reviewer
 Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi                      Sr. Transport Engineer, Peer Reviewer
 Jocelyne Do Sacramento                   HIVIAIDS and transport
 Sameena Dost                              Counsel
 Evan O'Halloran                           Operations Officer




                                                   - 64 -

                               Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
Procurement plan

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial management specialist assessment
Procurement specialist assessment

C. Other
Feasibility study and detailed engineering design o f periodic maintenance works on the road
Bamako-Bougouni (final, February 2003)
Environmental impact study o f periodic maintenance works on the road Bamako-Bougouni (final report,
February 2003)
Road safety audit o f the road Bamako-Bougouni (final report, April 2003)
Feasibility study and detailed engineering design of periodic maintenance works on the road SCvarC-Gao
(final report, August 2003)
Environmental impact study o f periodic maintenance works on the road SCvarC-Gao (final report,
September 2003)
Road safety audit o f the road SCvarC-Gao (final report, October 2003)
Environmental and social impact study o f rehabilitation works on the Dakar-Bamako railway (final,
October 2003)
Study o f the social impact of the privatization o f the railway company and action plan (final, November
2001)
Definition o f modalities for the creation and operation o f the support unit to redundantstaff of the railway
company (final, June 2002)
Economic analysis o f the social and compensation plan for the railway company (March 2003)
Economic analysis of the investment plan of the railway company (final, April 2003)
Survey o f prices of cereals and h i t s along the Bamako-Gao road (final report, April 2003)
Survey of vehicle speed on the roads Bamako-Bougouni and SCvarC-Gao (June 2003)
Environmental audit of the railway concession (final report, January 2004)
Investment program and business planof the railway concessionaire (January 2004)
Environmental and social management plan (final report, January 2004)
Social and compensation management plan (final, July 2003)
Resettlement policy framework (final report, January 2004)
Study for the restructuring o f the National Public Works Department (final, July 2001)
Study for the creation o f the Road Agency (final, September 2002)
*Including electronic files




                                                       - 65 -

                                         Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                           MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                               03-Feb-2004
                                                                                                                         Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                  and actual
                                                                     Oriainal Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO85634     2004 ML SAC Ill-Supplemental                            0.00        0.00                        0.00      0.03      -15.48      0.00
PO73036     2004 ML Household Energy & Universal Access             0.00       35.65                        0.00     37.42        0.00      0.00
PO35630     2002 Ma1i:AGRICULTURAL & PRODUCER ORGAN12               0.00       43.50                        0.00     39.52       18.63      0.00
PO40650     2001 Educ. Sect. Exp. Program                           0.00       45.00                        0.00     28.73       19.36      0.00
PO41723     2000 RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                               0.00      115.10                        0.00     94.44       61.30      0.00
PO01748     2000 FINANCE SECTOR DEVEL                               0.00       21.00                        0.00     18.95       12.80      0.00
PO40652     1999 Health Sector Dev. Prog.                           0.00       40.00                        0.00     22.52       22.20      3.89
PO46651     1997 ML REGIONAL POWER                                  0.00       17.10                        0.00      1.75        1.73      1.85
PO01750     1997 URBAN DEVT & DECENTR                               0.00       80.00                        0.00     24.30       28.72      10.96
PO01730     1994 MALI TRANSPORT SECTOR                              0.00       65.00                        0.00      4.35        6.30      2.23

                                                        Total:     0.00       462.35                        0.00     272.01     155.56      18.93




                                                                   MALI
                                                         STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                              June 30 2003
                                                                        -
                                                            InMillions USDollars

                                                                                  Committed                                Disbursed
                                                                               IFC                                     IFC
     FY Approval               Company                                Loan       Equity     Quasi     Partic    Loan      Equity       Quasi     Partic
     0                         PAL-Rabelais                            0.18        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.18        0.00        0.00       0.00
     0                         P A L - S A W                           0.48         0.00      0.00      0.00    0.48        0.00        0.00       0.00
     1997                      SEF 3T                                  0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
     1995                      SEMOS                                   0.00        4.80       0.00      0.00     0.00       4.80        0.00       0.00
     1996                      AEF GGG                                 0.35         0.00      0.35      0.00    0.35        0.00        0.35       0.00
     I994197103                Hotel Bamako                            1.75         0.00      0.00      0.00     1.15       0.00        0.00       0.00
     0                         PAL-Graphique Id                        0.61         0.00      0.00      0.00     0.61       0.00        0.00       0.00
                                        Total Portfolio:               3.37        4.80       0.35      0.00      2.77       4.80        0.35       0.00



                                                                           Approvals PendingCommitment
     FY Approval              Company                                     Loan        Equity        Quasi      Partic


                              Total PendingCommitment:                    0.00          0.00         0.00       0.00




                                                                    - 66 -

                                               Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                       MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                                                   Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan    Low-
                                                           Mali   Africa  income        Jeveiopmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                             11.3     688     2,495                   Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          240     450      430
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                            2.7     306     1,072
Average annual growth, 1996.02
Population (%)                                              2.4      2.4      1.9
Laborforce I%)                                              2.3      2.5      2.3       >NI                                Gross
                                                                                        )er                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                   :apita                          nroliment
Poverty(% ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                      32       33       30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                             41       46       59                          I
infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                     135      105       81
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under 51                    27                               Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source I%ofpopulation)                                       -
                                                             65       58       76
illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                          73       37       37
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)        61       86       95
    Male                                                     71       92      103              Mali         Low-income group

    Female                                                   51       80       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982     1992     2001     2002       Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                  1.3      2.8     2.6      3.2
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                      16.3     21.9    21.1     21.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                  14.3     15.4    31.5                                 Trade

Gross domestic savingsiGDP                          0.8      4.4    10.3                                    T
Gross national savings/GDP                          0.3     14.3      9.5

Current account balance/GDP                        -8.7     -8.4
interest payments/GDP                               0.4      0.6      0.6     0.7
Total debVGDP                                      65.9    101.9   110.0     88.6
Total debt service/exports                          8.5     10.0      9.4     10.1
Present value of debt/GDP                                           53.2
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                       164.4                               Indebtedness
                                        1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002  2002-06
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         2.1     4.6      1.5      9.6                       Mali         Low-income group
GDP per capita                             -0.5     2.1     -0.8      7.1


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        44.1     46.1    37.8
Industry                                           13.7     15.8    26.4
    Manufacturing                                   6.4      7.5      3.6
Services                                           42.2     38.0    35.9

Private consumption                                88.1     82.3    76.7
General government consumption                     11.1     13.2     13.0
imports of goods and services                      29.8     32.8    42.3

                                                1982.92  1992-02    2o01     2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                                  Growth of exports and imports (Oh)

Agriculture                                         5.7      3.2    -13.0     19.5
Industry                                            4.3      8.3    31.0               i:
   Manufacturing                                    7.0      2.4     -1.5               30
                                                                                 "
Services                                             1.3     3.5      1.2               20
                                                                                 "      10
Private consumption                                  1.5     2.9      2.8                0
General government consumption                      6.3      6.4     -8.5        ....  -10
Gross domestic investment                           5.9      4.9     -0.4     13.9             -Exporls         -O'lmporls
imports of goods and services                       6.0      3.9     24.0      5.0




                                                                - 67 -

                                                                                                                      Mali

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                          Inflation (Oh)                                   1
(% change)                                                              10

Consumer prices                                   -6.3     5.2    3.0
Implicit GDP deflator                      12.7    2.0     9.1    4.4    5

Governmentfinance                                                        0
(% of GDP. includes current grants)
Current revenue                            75.9   16.3   18.0    18.6
Current budget balance                     24.9    4.9     5.4    6.2                                                     I
Overall surplus/deficit                   -29.0   -8.0    -9.6   -8.1              -GDPdeflator          d ' C P I


TRADE
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$ mililonsj                                                          Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)              I
Total exports (fob)                        645    362     739    766
  Cotton                                   282    151     111    203
  Goid                                     267     60     498    429
  Manufactures
Total imports (cifl                        903    719     498    429
  Food                                     118     97     118
  Fuel and energy                          116     84     147
  Capital goods                            253    201     280
Export price index (1995=100)               73     93      77      76
Import price index (1995=100)               86     97     102     104
Terms of trade (1995=100j                   05     97      75      73

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                           Current account balance to GDP (Oh)              1
Exports of goods and services              190    440     829    858
Imports of goods and services              395    937   1,100   1,156
Resource balance                          -205   -497    -271   -298
Net income                                 -12     -7    -133   -122
Net current transfers                       20    208     112      86
Current account balance                   -115   -241
Financing items (net)                      117    329
Changes in net reserves                     -2    -89     -28     -53
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      25    315     377    419
Conversion rate (DEC. iocal/US$)          328.6  265.3  728.0   697.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992   2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                         I Composition   of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       875  2,899   2,911   2,801
  IBRD                                       0      0       0      0
  IDA                                      154    611     981   1,131  I                  G: 151

Total debt service                          20     59      80      89
  IBRD                                       0      0       0      0
  IDA                                        2      7      13      10
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                           79    203     191
  Official creditors                       111    133      67     95
  Private creditors                          4     -3       0      0
  Foreign direct Investment                  2    -22     103
  Porffolio equity                           0      0       0
World Bank program
  Commitments                               52     46     140      0
  Disbursements                             14     62      71           A IBRD                               E . Bilateral
                                                                  89        .IDA                               -
                                                                            ~
                                                                        B           D .Other multilateral    F Private
  Principai repayments                       0      3       6      4    C   - IMF                            G- Short-tern
  Net flows                                 14     59      65     85
  Interest payments                          1      4       7      7
  Net transfers                             13     54      58     78

                   Additional Annex II: Letter of Transport Sector Policy
                MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                      LETTER OF TRANSPORT SECTORPOLICY
           UNDER THE TRANSPORTATIONCORRIDORIMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                             (ROAD,RAIL AND AIRPORT SUBSECTORS)
                                    FOR THE PERIODOF 2004-2007


I. BACKGROUND

Since 1995, the Government o f Mali has undertaken in collaboration with financial partners, to implement
the Transport Sector Project (TSP). The main objectives of this project are to: (a) strengthen management
capacities and improve sector performance by reorganizing the sector and developing local expertise; (b)
restructure transport public enterprises; (c) revise the current administrative and regulatory framework so
as to promote private sector participation in the provision o f services and execution o f works; (d)
rehabilitate and maintain a priority network o f transport infrastructure; and (e) improve the efficiency o f
transport operations and reduce transport costs.

The TSP closing date is set for December 31,2004.

Beyond this date, there will remain a substantial portfolio o f road maintenance projects already funded by
development partners to be implemented or completed.

In addition, there is still a major need for funding to improve the condition of transport infrastructure,
which calls for urgent attention, particularly in the case o f the SCvarO-Gao and Bamako-Bougouni roads
and certain sections o f the Bamako-Diboli railway.

The Government o f Mali, with support from financial partners, has begun preparation o f a project called
the Transportation Corridor Improvement Project (Projet d 'Am6nagement des Corridors de Transport:
PACT), planned for a four-year period (2004-2007), in order to address these concerns pending
preparation and implementation o f the second Transport Sector Project.

The Transportation Corridor Improvement Project has the following objectives:

a)       improve the efficiency and sustainability o f rail transport, specifically by rehabilitating railway
infrastructure and by implementingthe investment program;
b)       reduce Mali's internal and external isolation, specifically :(i)through periodic maintenance o f two
main roads (Bamako-Bougouni-Sikasso and Shark-Gao); (ii)         pavement o f missing links to the ports o f
Nouakchott and Dakar (Diditni-DiCma, DiOma-Nioro); (iii)       pavement o f the roads Kati-Kita and
Gao-Ansongo-Niger border;
c)       implement or complete the periodic maintenance works already funded by financial partners;
d)       complete the restructuring of public enterprises inthe transport sector (RCFM andADM) and
implement social plans.

These objectives are consistent with the third main theme o f the Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework,
which i s to develop infrastructure and support productive activities.




                                                     - 69 -

11.      OVERVIEW OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR

In a landlocked country as large as Mali with a surface of 1,240,138 km2, the transport sector plays a
critical role in reducing internal and extemal isolation. The Malian economy depends largely on imports
and therefore on the efficient hctioning o f its international transport systems for the procurement o f
numerous strategic commodities (notably hydrocarbons) and consumer and capital goods (building
materials, agricultural inputs). Efficient functioning o f the international transport systems is imperative also
to enable Mali's exports-particularly      cotton fiber, its leading export-to    compete on the international
market.    Domestic transport is o f particular importance given the immensity o f the territory and the
geographical disparity o f activities. Transport accounts for 20-30 percent o f the cost o f most essential
products. The competitiveness o f Mali's economy depends in large part on the operational efficiency o f its
transport system.

To improve the transport sector operational efficiency, the Government of Mali adopted in 1993, a
Statement o f General Transport Sector Policy that includes both a strategy statement and an action plan to
implement within the framework o f the Transport Sector Project (TSP).

The sectoral approach implemented under the TSP, which ties sector reforms to coordinated investments,
has resulted ingreater consistency within the sector and greater efficiency inthe use o f limitedresources.

Implementation o f the Transport Sector Project has indeed led to a substantial improvement in the
management capacities o f the sector's central authorities.

The central authorities have been computerized and supplied with planning and decision-making tools.

At the National Directorate o f Roads, a data bank called the Road Data Unit has been established, which
has contributed in developing rationalized annual road maintenance programs.

At the National Directorate o f Transportation, computerization has served to reduce the time frame for
processing transport documents and has made their storage more secured.                 In addition, a Transport
Observatory has been set in place which, since 1995, has produced each year an annual compendium o f
transport statistics. This document is an important informational tool for both government decision-makers
and private operators. The Highway Code has also been reviewed to improve road safety.

2.1 Road subsector

The reforms implemented under the TSP have proven to be insufficient to reach the strategic objective o f
increasing the sector's operational efficiency in the medium term by developing a sound basis for
competition between modes o f transport and between enterprises.

The subsector is penalized by its low profitability which results from overcapacity, overload o f trucks and
decrepitude o f the vehicle fleet which is unable to meet the country's supply needs. To a large extent,
transport remains the province o f artisans. There is a need to modernize the management o f transport
enterprises and to better organize the profession in order to facilitate eligibility for credit from financial
institutions and fleet renewal.

2.2 Rural tranmort strategy

In view o f the major constraints generated by the difficulties o f transport in rural areas, where some 80


                                                     - 70 -

percent o f the country's population lives, and in view of the government's commitment to poverty
reduction, a study to develop a rural transport strategy i s now underway as part o f the National Rural
Infrastructure Program (Programme National d 'Infrastructures Rurales: PNIR).

This study will focus primarily on the following issues:

         Improve and sustain the condition o f rural infrastructure;
         identify ways to improve the mobility o f populations inrural areas.

2.3 Roadmaintenance

Since 1995, major efforts by the government and financial partners have produced a substantial
improvement in the condition o f the road network as a result o f routine and periodic maintenance. This
situation, combined with the difficulties faced by RCFM, has divertedapproximately 70 percent o f freight
traffic to the roadnetwork.

As a result of the reforms undertaken to date: (i) National Directorate o f Roads has refocused its
                                                        the
attention on issues o f project implementation (planning) and project execution (managing the execution of
work programs); (ii) maintenance activities are executed by contractors; and (iii) system has been
                       road                                                            a
set inplace for funding road maintenance (Highway Authority).

However, efforts to promote local public works enterprises have been substantially impeded by the failure
o f the Public Works Equipment Leasing Company (Socikti de Location de Matkriel des Travaux Publics:
SLMTP).

2.4 Rail subsector

Rehabilitation efforts generated a brief recovery o f the Malian Public Railway Company (Rkgie du Chemin
de Fer du Mali: RCFM), which then quickly deteriorated under the weight o f major funding needs for
infrastructure and rolling stock.

The Governments o f Mali and Senegal have brought to completion the process o f concessioning railway
operations, initiated in 1998.     The concession was awarded to the CANAC-GETMA Group.               The
concessionaire created for this purpose, called TRANSRAIL, began its operations on October 1, 2003.

TRANSRAIL is responsible for the technical and business operation o f rail transport services for both
freight and passengers, as well as for maintaining, operating, renewing and improving rail infrastructure
and managing the rail property covered by the concession. Rail infrastructure (including all works
performed by the concessionaire) will however remain the property o f the state in whose territory it is
located.

51 percent o f the concessionaire's capital is held by a private shareholder, set up in the form o f a
corporation (the "reference shareholder" o f TRANSRAIL). The concessionaire's other shareholders are:
(a) the Governments o f Mali and Senegal, which each hold a maximum o f 10 percent o f the company's
capital; (b) the company's employees, who hold 9 percent o f the company's capital through portage, with
the methods o f transfer to be settled by negotiations between trade unions and TRANSRAIL; and (c)
private shareholders who have acquired shares in TRANSRAIL (a maximumo f 20 percent). These shares
are temporarily covered by portage by the concessionaire.



                                                     - 71 -

The concession is rolling, with an initial duration o f 25 years and possible 10-year extensions, to be decided
at the end o f each 10-year period after the concession goes into effect.

2.5 Air subsector

In connection with implementation of the action plan for liberalizing air transport in West and Central
Africa:

         steps are underway to restructure the National Directorate o f Civil Aviation with a view to making
it financially autonomous;
         safety and security concerns must be covered inthe COSCAP project prepared by the West Africa
Economic and Monetary Union;
         aspects o f the economic regulation o f air transport must be covered by the committee for
standardization set up at the subregional level.

The airport management company (Ahports du Mali: ADM) has benefited from the rehabilitation of
movement surfaces and technical blocks at the Mopti and Nioro airfields. Other airports such as Kayes,
KCniCba, Nioro, YClimanC, Nara, Mopti, MCnaka, Kidal, Goundam amd Hombori received air navigation
or meteorology equipment.

The Government has initiated a concessioning process in order to establish more effective business
management that is conducive to implementation o f the investments needed to modernize infrastructure and
equipment. The provisional recipient o f the Ahports du Mali concession has been designated.
Negotiations are underway.

2.6 River subsector

The restructuring o f COMANAV was not followed by adequate investments to improve the period o f
navigability and offset the losses caused by the sale o f the shipyard and the metal barrel factory. The Niger
river has not been dredged for 30 years.

Actions are underway with partners to adapt the equipment to the low depth o f the river and thereby extend
the period o f navigability. Search for funding dredging o f the river will also be undertaken.

111.     STRATEGY

A.       ORGANIZATIONOF COMPETITION INTHE ROAD TRANSPORT MARKET FOR
FREIGHT

The competitive mechanisms are functioning imperfectly in view of the requirements for access to freight
(access in turn), the provisions o f the interstate road transport agreements in effect concerning the
allocation o f freight, and the condition o f the fleet.

The government will continue its actions to facilitate the emergence o f professional transport operators by
improved organization o f access to the profession o f road transport operator.




                                                        - 72 -

B.       REHABILITATIONAND MODERNIZATION OF THE PUBLICTRANSPORTATION
FLEET

The government remains preoccupied with the need to modernize and rehabilitate the fleet by fighting
against excess loads, performing technical inspections o f vehicles and gradually renewing the fleet.

The preoccupation with excess loads is a Government priority which stems from the desire to preserve the
condition o f the network, which hasjust been substantially improved.

The government will support efforts by professional organizations to set up adequate mechanisms for
fimding the acquisition o f new vehicles inorder to rehabilitate the existing fleet.

C.       EFFORTSTO IMPROVE THE FUNCTIONINGOF TRANSPORTATIONCORRIDORS

The government intends to continue its efforts to improve national and international transport services and
reduce the transport and transit costs for freight.

The government will ensure that the Malian Shippers Council is operational in the transport chain and
contributes to ensure speed of transport at minimumcost.

The study on restructuring of the National Directorate o f Transportation will enable the authorities to adopt
appropriate legal statutes adapting its activities to the sector evolution.

Special attention will be given to the necessity o f adopting national regulations that are consistent with
subregional guidelines and regulations (WAEMU and ECOWAS) in order to improve traffic flow and
facilitate trade.

The government will give priority to maintenance o f existinginfrastructure and will enforce existing rules
and regulations and the decisions taken by subregional bodies in the areas o f transport facilitation,
standardization of road safety policies and axle weight controls.

Actions will be taken to standardize regulations and guidelines, as well as to ensure that they are enforced,
through informational and awareness-raising initiatives, appropriate signaling and other means.

The government will strengthen its policy o f diversifying access roads to the coast and expanding freight
storage capacity inexisting ports by buildingor enlarging warehouses.

As part of the effort to facilitate subregional trade and improve the supply channels, actions will be taken to
build dry ports inKayes and Sikasso.

D.       IMPROVEMENT OF ROAD SAFETY

The government will ensure that regional regulations on axle weight controls will be applied as they
constitute a key factor inthe fight to protect road investments.

The Government will continue technical controls o f vehicles in order to improve road safety.

The government will implement the recommendations o f the road safety audits as a way to improve safety
on the roads scheduled for periodic maintenance under the Transportation Corridor Improvement Project.


                                                       -73 -

E.       RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISESINTHE TRANSPORT SECTOR

The government, after completing the restructuring of the Malian Public Railway Company, will continue
the same process with the airport management company (A6roports du Mali: ADM) with a dual objective:
(i)first, transform ADMinto a strictly business-oriented enterprise; and (ii)second, eliminate financial
support from the government for their operations.

a)       Concessioningof RCFM

a.1 Social plan

Inconnection with implementation of the concessioning process, the Government of Mali, incollaboration
with the Government o f Senegal and financial partners, approved a social plan designed to: (i)   compensate
employees who were not retained by the concessionaire; and (ii)      provide extension services and training to
facilitate their rehabilitation. The social plan was approved by the government at the Council o f Ministers
meetingof July 29,2003.

a.2 Investmentprogramof the railway concession

The Government o f Mali with the concessionaire, have prepared a major investment program in order to
support efforts to modernize the Dakar-Bamako railway and thereby improve its performance on a
sustainable basis.

This investment program comprises: (i) acquisition or restoration o f rolling stock; (ii) to be done
                                           the                                               works
on the railway; and (iii) renovation o f the telecommunications system.

TRANSRAIL began its operations on October 1, 2003. The setting up the concession monitoring unit and
the concessioning monitoring committee is now underway.

b)       ConcessioningofAe`roportsdu Mali

The government will continue to implement its policy o f stimulating the air transport sector inline with the
following objectives:

         ensure air transport's contribution to socio-economic development, specifically by reducing the
country's intemal and extemal isolation and by developing its potential for tourism;
         improve the quality o f services provided to airport users;
         expand the airports' capacity to accommodate users, improve the potential traffic and increase the
competitiveness o f Malian airports inthe West African subregion;
         promote private sector participation in hnding air transport needs interms o f investments and
airport management;
         ensure the development and effective management o f the entire national network o f ADM airports
open to public air traffic, inaddition to the international airport o f Bamako-Sknou.

To meet these objectives, the government has undertaken, among other actions, the concessioning o f ADM.




                                                     - 74 -

F.       REORGANIZATIONOF ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECOVERY OF
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS

F.lRestructuringof roadmaintenance

a)       Restructuring ofthe NationalDirectorateof PublicWorks

Laws 02-057 and 02-058 establishing the National Directorate o f Roads (Direction Nationale des Routes:
DNR) and the Road Data Unit (Service des DonnBes Routidres: SDR) were promulgated in December
2002. The texts pertaining to the decentralized units o f DNR were adopted in February 2003.

The mission of the National Directorate o f Roads is to develop the elements o f national policy with respect
to roads and bridges and related structures and to coordinate and oversee the operations o f public and
private services and organizations involved inimplementing this policy.

The Road Data Unit is responsible for updating road data, preparing technical documentation on road
infrastructure and improving the planning and programming of road construction and maintenance
activities.

The various laws and regulations that have been adopted complete the revision o f the institutional and
regulatory framework for the National Directorate o f Public Works and define DNR's responsibilities,
including programming and project management to ensure promotion o f the private sector's role in
providing services and performing works.

b)       Creation of the RoadAgency (Agence d'ExLcution des Travaux Routiers: AGEROUTE)

To overcome the constraints hindering prompt management o f projects, the government has decided to
create an implementing agency in charge with facilitating execution o f road maintenance by contractors,
improving the quality o f works and reducing costs. The study o f the Road Agency is underway.

Inthe meantime, works are performed under agreements with the implementing agencies already inplace
(AGETIERand AGETIPE).

F.2InfrastructureCost Recovery

Fundingfor road maintenance(Highway Authority)

Incollaboration with financial partners, the government has decided to fundamentally reorient its policy on
hding for roadmaintenance.

Indeed, budget allocations clearly showed their limitations during the previous period, which was
characterized by substantial delays in the availability o f funds, insufficient credit and irregular availability
o f funds, all o f which seriously undermined the effectiveness o f roadmaintenance.

The new policy is based on commercialization o froad service through user cost recovery. For this purpose,
an autonomous entity for funding road maintenance was created. This entity, called the Highway Authority
(AutoritB Routidre), is under the authority of a board o f directors where road users are represented,

The Highway Authority began operations in 2002. The first actions involved adoption o f the regulations


                                                     - 75 -

governing its operations. Thus, for the purpose o f generating funds for road maintenance, Decree
02-324P-RM o f July 5, 2002 instituted road user fees on behalf o f the Highway Authority. This involves
road user fees on petroleum products, road user fees based on axle weight for vehicles authorized in Mali
and highway tolls. Interministerial Order 02-2673 o f December 31, 2002 set the rates o f road user fees
based on axle weight. By the first quarter o f 2003, this fee was already being collected.

In addition to its resources, resources from the Government budget allocated for road maintenance have
been transferred to the accounts o f the Highway Authority, which has been responsible for managing them
since 2002.

The road maintenance budget for fiscal year 2003 was set by the board o f directors in receipts and
expenditures in the amount o f CFAF 5,880,000,000.       Execution is planned to be entirely by contractors,
force account being only an exception.

The road maintenance budget thus shows a major increase over previous years. The budget came to CFAF
2,851,473,954 in 2001 and CFAF 4,770,000,000 in 2002.              This increase reflects the government's
commitment to improve road maintenance.

AGEROUTE will next be set in place, following the National Directorate of Roads, the Road Data Unit
and the Highway Authority, and this will finalize the process o f reforming the road maintenance institutions
and methods o f execution for road maintenance.

G.      CAPACITY BUILDING

The government has set in place the Transport Observatory, concession vehicle inspections, re-register
vehicles, review the Highway Code, create the Accident Analysis Bulletin(Bulletin d 'Analyse d 'Accidents
Corporels: BAAC), computerize the National Directorate o f Transportation and its regional agencies,
establish a Road Data Bank and implement training modules on road maintenance management, business
management and staff development for government and private sector officials and employees.

To improve sector performance, the government will continue its efforts to adapt and modernize the sector
administration, particularly through the restructuring o f the National Directorate of Transportation.

H.      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE PROJECT

As part o f implementation o f the Transportation Corridor Improvement Project, it is planned to carry out
road and rail infrastructure works that could have negative effects on the environment and adjacent
populations.

H.lEnvironmentalconcerns

The government will implement plans to mitigate the environmental impact o f such works through
implementation o f recommendations as defined by environmental impact studies.

H.2Resettlementpolicy

The government will implement the overall policy framework for resettlement and compensation o f
populations affected by the works executed during the Transport Corridors Improvement Project.



                                                    - 76 -

Road projects will henceforth attempt to better understand the role o f the road in consultation with the
roads' neighbors. Such consultation will cover road safety issues, road layout concerns and other matters
such as water retention at bridges and related structures.

IV.      ACTION PLAN FOR TRANSPORT OPERATIONS

A.       ORGANIZATION OF COMPETITIONINTHE ROAD TRANSPORT MARKET FOR
FREIGHT

The government will strive to improve the fimctioning o f the competition mechanisms for land transport
markets for freight through the elimination o f freight distribution quotas between transit countries and
destination countries by reviewing transport agreements by the end o f 2006.

The Malian Shippers Council will create a freight bureau in 2005 to stimulate competition among
transporters and reduce transport costs.

B.       REHABILITATIONAND MODERNIZATION OF THE PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
FLEET

The political crisis plaguing the West African subregion has shown the limitations o f the Malian public
transportation fleet, characterized by its dilapidated condition, in comparison with other fleets in the
subregion.

This has resulted ina significant increase inacquisitions o fnew vehicles, risingfrom 52 vehicles in2002 to
122 vehicles in 2003.

The Government created a technical committee in charge o f evaluating the needs for freight transport
vehicles and less-than 10 seat passenger vehicles inview o f the fleet renewal.

The govemment will support efforts to bring professional organizations together through an entity called
the Malian Council of Road Transport Operators (Conseil Malien des Transporteurs Routiers: CMTR) to
defend the interests o f the transport industry.

The Government will support the efforts made by the CTMR near financing institutions in view o f
renewing and modemizing the vehicle fleet, restoring the conditions for a sound intermodal competition and
reducing transport costs.

Duringthe first half o f 2004, the govemment will acquire and install six new scales for trucks at planned
inspection points.

The government will implement the regulation adopted to control excess loading and will enforce penalties
for violations, after a period of awareness-raising, by the second half o f 2004 at the latest.

Also in 2004, the government will continue to rehabilitate the public transportation fleet and improve road
safety by:

(i)      expanding technical inspections to include all vehicle parts presently covered by the regulation in
effect inother countries o f the subregion;
(ii)     support the efforts o f the concessionaire for vehicle inspection services to increase the number o f


                                                      - 77 -

inspection centers inorder to facilitate the users' access to the centers; and
(iii)   stepping up road checks in order to verify that vehicles are presented for technical inspections.

C.      IMPROVEMENT OF THE FUNCTIONING OF TRANSPORTATIONCORRIDORS

The objective is to improve national and international transport services with a view to reducing transport
costs and facilitating the free movement o f persons and freight, both o f which are basic requirements for
economic development and regional integration.

The government will give special attention to the implementation o f measures designed to improve traffic
flow and facilitate trade, particularly by reducing checkpoints along main roads.

To this effect, check points will be maintained at the borders and at the end o f international routes.
Intermediary checkpoints will serve only to control conformity.

The Malian Shippers Council will seek arrangements in view o f reducing transport delays and costs,
especially through (i)  information on and monitoring of transit goods; and (ii)   support to shippers during
negotiations with port operators and transporters.

D.      IMPROVEMENT OF ROADSAFETY

The government will see that the measures defined inthe road safety audits are implemented for the works
planned on the SBvarB-Gao and Bamako-Bougouni roads. These measures relate to accident reduction and
road safety issues along these two roads.

The government will take steps to implement the following measures:

        acquire computer equipment for the data bank on road accidents;
        evaluate driver's license testing and teaching o f driving by driving schools;
        continue informational and awareness-raising activities for users concerning the provisions o f the
Highway Code.

E.      RAIL TRANSPORT

Implementationof the concession

The government will see to the following matters:

        set up o f the concession monitoring committee;
        set up o f the concession monitoring unit;
        mobilize the Government resources as planned.

Socialplan

Inconnection with the railway concessioning, the government has implemented measures to streamline the
workforce based on a social plan (consistent with Senegal's social plan) that was prepared and negotiated
with unions representatives.

The plan has two parts:


                                                     -78 -

The first part involves determining and paying legal and negotiated compensation to employees not retained
by the concessionaire, inaccordance with labor law and the enterprise convention o fRCFM.

The second part o f the social plan involves the assistance to be given to employees not retained by the
concessionaire in order to facilitate their reinsertion through the unit created for this purpose, called the
Cellule d 'Appuipour la Rdinsertion des Cheminots (CARCHEM).

CARCHEM's management bodies are already in place (Association o f Founding Members and Board o f
Directors).

CARCHEM's executive bodies will be set in place during the first semester o f 2004 to ensure that the
effective start o f the unit's activities.

F.       Akroports du Mali ACTION PLAN

The concessioning process i s underway. The recipient of the concession has been designated and the
investmentplanadopted.

The Government will create a Committee responsible for monitoring compliance to the concession
agreement by the Government and the concessionaire.

Faced with the prospect o f a workforce reduction when the concession is awarded, the government has
taken steps to:

         prepare and negotiate a social plan with personnel representatives to ensure compensation o f
employees not retainedby the concessionaire;
         include finding o f the social plan inthe government's budget for fiscal year 2004.

V.       ACTION PLANFOR ROAD MAINTENANCE

A.       RESTRUCTURING OF ROAD MAINTENANCE

Given the considerable importance o f the impact o f programming on the success of efforts to restructure
road maintenance, the government is committedto:

         mobilizing its own resources necessary for the Road Data Unit;
         providing adequate equipment to the Road Data Unitto collect and analyze data for the purpose o f
developing streamlined road maintenance programs; and
         carrying out o f in-service training for Road Data Unit staff.

To facilitate the emergence o f civil works enterprises, improve the quality o f maintenance and reduce the
time frame for processing procurement documents, the government will take the following measures:

         complete the study on the creation o f AGEROUTE with a focus on the institutional aspects,
organizational structure and hnctioning o f this hture agency during the first quarter o f 2004;
         complete the formalities for AGEROUTE to begin operations during the second semester of 2004;
         perform a technical and environmental audit o f road projects.



                                                     - 79-

B.       IMPROVEMENTOF ROADINFRASTRUCTURECOSTRECOVERY

The government will take steps to:

         start to collect road user fees on petroleum products inJanuary 2004;
         carry out a study on road tollsiweighing stations so that toll collection can begin in2005.

The government will take steps to ensure a gradual increase in the resources of the Highway Authority.
This increase, which will reflect commitments made by the government in the Strategic Cooperation
Framework Paper signed with the European Union in connection with implementation of the Cotonou
Agreement (EU-ACP), will be as follows: CFAF 5.6 billion in2003; CFAF 7.45 billion in2004; CFAF 9.3
billion in 2005; CFAF 11.5 billionin2006; and CFAF 13 billion in2007.

         The Government will pay particular attention to the gradual increase of the Highway Authority's
own resources.

VI.      ACTION PLAN FOR SOCIALAND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT

The government will implement the measures recommended to eliminate, reduce and, if possible,
compensate for the harmful environmental and social impacts of the projects.

Environmentalconcerns

Road infrastructure

Steps will be taken to implement, beginning in 2004, the main recommendations of the environmental
studies, inparticular:

Measures during theperiod of works:

         tree plantations;
         specific instructions on the opening of quarries and sand pits (methods of operation, site restoration
instructions) and detours;
         proposedenvironmental provisions to be included inthe specifications.

Measures during the road operation:

         pavement of areas for vehicles to stop or of extra roadwidth incommunities crossed by the road,
dependingon their size;
         development of parking areas near markets.

Rail infrastructure

The government will implement the recommendations of the environmental and social study of the
Dakar-Bamako railway.

As part of the burden resulting from the impact of infrastructure works on the population to be resettled,
the Government will continue its efforts to:



                                                    - 80 -

         prevent involuntary resettlement and acquisition of land as much as possible;
         compensate people that are resettled.

         However, if necessary, the Resettlement Policy Framework will be applied.

VII.     ACTION PLANFOR CAPACITY BUILDING

The government will continue to carry out actions designed to build local management capacities,
particularly inthe following areas:

         management o f road maintenance;
         management o f transport enterprises;
         management o f the environmental aspects o f projects;
         capacity building for small and medium civil works enterprises and local consulting firms.

To consolidate the improvements made as a result o f road maintenance reform, the government will give
special attention to building the capacities (through training and equipment) o f the newly created entities:

         National Directorate o f Roads;
         Road Data Unit;
         Highway Authority;
         Agency for Road Works (AGEROUTE).

VIII. ACTION PLANFOR TRANSPORTAND HIV/AIDS

Insofar as transport and civil works sites represent powerful vectors for AIDS transmission, the
government will ensure that the recommendations o f the study on Transport and AIDS are implemented,
particularly by:

         conducting actions to raise the awareness o f (i) migrant workers on works sites; (ii) and
                                                                                               users
drivers o f means o f transportation; and (iii)the population living along roads and railways targeted for civil
works activities under the Project;
         including clauses related to HIV/AIDS prevention inroad and rail civil works contracts.

IX.      INVESTMENT PROGRAMOF THE TRANSPORT CORRIDORSIMPROVEMENT
PROJECT

9.1 Roadinvestmentprogram

The government plans to carry out a major road investment program in collaboration with financial
partners.

These programs fall within the annual program-budgets and the three-year programs which encompass
capital expenditure and operating costs. The program-budgets define the objectives set by the sector, the
expected results and the performance indicators.

The government plans to complement this approach by establishing medium-term expenditure frameworks
for the transport sector in2004, following the health and education sectors in2003.



                                                     - 81 -

The medium-term expenditure framework will develop the program budget concept, with the following
objectives:

         ensure consistency with the Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework;
         ensure consistency with the macro-economic framework;
         establish the link between the resources allocated to the sector and the expenditures needed to meet
the objectives set by the sector, by making sure that the expenditure program for the sector includes all
necessary expenditures and the resources budgeted for recurrent expenditures, i.e. expenditures needed to
implementthe programs and not based solely on expenditures from previous years.

These programs involve the following investments:

Periodic maintenance on the Bamako-Bougouni road: The Bamako-Bougouni road was built between
1988 and 1990 as part o f the FifthMali Road Project with funding from the World Bank and the African
Development Bank. This road represents one section o f National Road 7 (RN 7) and connects Bamako, the
country's capital city, to the port o f Abidjan. It is the country's most important road: in 1999, it handled
approximately 70 percent o f all intemational road traffic. The cost o f the civil works is estimated at
roughly CFAF 11 billion.

Periodic maintenance on the SCvarC-Gao road: The SCvart-Gao road was built between 1979 and 1986
with support from the German cooperation and Arab funding. It represents one section o f National Road 16
(RN 16), which is the only paved road connecting Bamako, the capital, to the northem part o f the country.
It thus permits trade between these two poles o f development and ensures the mobility o f populations inthe
northem regions while enabling them to export their products to the south. The cost o f the civil works is
estimated at roughly CFAF 26 billion.

The final study o f civil works on the SCvarC-Gao road proposes two strategies: a strategy of immediate
development and a strategy o f gradual development. Given the difference between the two strategies with
respect to the need to raise funds in early 2004, and the fact that 60 percent o f the road is ingood condition
based on visual inspections and analysis o f the existing road structure, the strategy o f gradual development
was preferred, as follows:

         periodic maintenance on 40 percent o f the road;
         heavy routine maintenance on the remainder, to be revisited under the future Second Transport
Sector Project.

Periodic maintenance on the road Bougouni-Sikasso road: This road continues the road Bamako-Bougouni
toward the borders with CBte d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso. The works are financed by the African
Development Fundand the West African development Bank and are estimated at CFAF15 billion.

         Rehabilitation works on the roads DidiCni-Ditma, DiCma-Nioro, Kati-Kita and Gao-Asongo-Niger
border are financed by European Union as part o f the NinthEuropean Fund for a cost estimated at CFAF
68 billion.

The government intendsto organize a meeting o f donors inthe first quarter o f 2004 to present its transport
sector policy (letter o f policy) and submit project briefs for funding:

         periodic maintenance on the SCvarC-Gaoroad;
         civil works on 607 kilometers o f rural roads;


                                                       - 82 -

         construction works to reduce the isolation o f certain villages located along the railway that are
entirely dependent on train service;
         road maintenance needs over the next three years as defined inthe recent roadmaintenance study.

Investment program ofthe rail operationsconcession

An investment program has been developed that encompasses (i)investments planned by the
concessionaire, in the amount o f approximately CFAF 30 billion, and (ii)investments planned by the
Governments o f Mali, inthe amount o f CFAF 20.8 billion. These investments mainly concem:

         acquisition o f rolling stock;
         infrastructure works;
         renovation o f telecommunications network;
         upgrading o f equipment maintenance facilities.

This investment program, which will be financed either through government loans on-lent to the
concessionaire, through concessionaire self-financing, or through loans raised directly by the concessionaire
with no government guarantee, will help to improve the operational performance o f the Bamako-Dakar
railway.

The project briefs were presented at an initial meeting o f donors that took place in Paris on June 26-27,
2003.

The Government o f Mali has submitted requests to donors to finance some o f these investments (purchase
o f passenger equipment).

The concessionaire participated ina donor meeting inOctober 2003.

InvestmentprogramoftheAkroports du Mali concession

This program will be worked out once the concessionaire has been selected.

X.       PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS

The performance indicators identifiedduring project preparation are as follows:

Road maintenance

         Increase the Highway Authority's own resources inthe total road maintenance budget by an annual
10per cent with a 40 percent target in2007;
         Complete periodic maintenance and pavement works o f corridors to the ports o fNouakchott,
Dakar, Conakry, Abidjan and Tema and the road Bamako-Gao-Niamey for a total o f 1,569 km.

Road Transport

         Road safety :compilation of accident statistics :provision o f reports on accidents by 100 percent
o f police bureaus in2008 compared to about 20 percent currently;
         Axle load : 11.5 ton standard;
         Number of road blocks :decrease inroad blocks to 2 per road itinerary (start and end),


                                                    - 83 -

intermediary controls will be limited to compliance with regulation.

Railway

       Railway's market share inthe international transport of freight inMali :25 percent in2008;
       Number o f derailments :decreaseby 70 percent in2008 from 60 in2002.



                                                         Bamako,




   MINISTER OF EQUIPMENT                                        H.E.MINISTER OF ECONOMY
       AND TRANSPORT                                                   AND FINANCE




       OusmaneIssoufi MAIGA                                              Bassarv TOURE
   Commandeur de l'Ordre National                                 Commandeur de 1'OrdreNational




                                                   -84 -

Additional Annex 12: Main Characteristics of the Concession for Railway services between
                                           Dakar and Bamako
                 MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

 Scope of the concession. The concessionaire will be responsible for the technical and commercial
 operation o f international freight and passenger rail services between Dakar and Bamako and for the
 maintenance, renewal, development and operation o f the rail infrastructure and management o f the railway
 real estate part o f the concession. The concession does not include the services and the infrastructure
 between Tivaouane and St Louis and Diourbel and Touba in Senegal which remain public but are not in
 service currently, between Thies and Tivaouane which will be operated by a private railway operator, a
 subsidiary of the Senegalese Phosphate Mining and Chemical Company (ICs), and suburban passenger
 services between Dakar, Thies and Tivaouane which remain public although operation by a private
 operator is being considered. The concessionaire determines the nature, the configuration, the technical and
 commercial modalities o f its commercial operation and the tariffs. Special contract rates can be negotiated
 with shippers, whose rates are not publicized.

 Public Service Obligations. The States can impose the operation o f services with specific configuration
 and tariffs. These services are subject to special agreements and the concessionaire is financially
 compensated for the operation o f these services. Similarly,the States would compensate the concessionaire
 for tariffs which might be imposed below the commercial tariffs defined by the concessionaire. An
 agreement for passenger services operated in Mali between Kayes and Mahina and between Bamako and
 Kayes was included inthe biddingdocuments for the selection o f the concessionaire.

 Duration of the concession. The concession is a "rolling concession", with an initial duration o f 25 years.
 At the end of the first ten-year period, and every ten years thereafter, the concession can be extended by
 mutual agreement for an additional ten years, thus preserving the 25-year horizon which provides the
 incentive for the concessionaire to manage the company properly and continue to invest without the risk o f
 termination and loss o f invested capital.

 Concessionfee. The concessionaire will pay to the Government a concession fee defined as a percentage o f
 its yearly revenue (0 percent for the first year, one percent for years 2 to 4, 3.5 percent for years 5 to 6 and
 six percent thereafter) with a minimum equal to CFAF 500 million in year 2 and established by the
 concessionaire inits financial proposal for the subsequent years.

 Infrastructure management and development. The Government keeps the ownership o f the infrastructure
 (tracks, buildings, structures, signaling, telecommunication). The concessionaire is responsible for their
 operation and maintenance. Infrastructure investment programs are prepared, managed and financed (either
 directly or through on-lending o f resources by the States) by the concessionaire. Investments above a
 certain threshold will require States approval. The concessionaire included an investment program in its
 proposal. This investment program was discussed ina Round Table o f Donors preliminary to the appraisal
 o f the proposed project.

 Motive power and rolling stock. The concessionaire will purchase the equipment (motive power, rolling
 stock, spare parts) previously owned by the public railway companies inMali and Senegal as defined inthe
 bidding documents for the selection o f the concessionaire. Payment to the States will be spread on a
 seven-year period. The concessionaire will be responsible for purchasing new equipment as necessary.
 States will have a right o f first refusal for equipment sold during the concession and will have an
 acquisition right for equipment at the end o f the concession based on book value.



                                                      - 85 -

Access by other rail operators. The concessionaire will give access to rail infrastructure in the Dakar
region to operators o f (a) phosphate and other chemical products rail transport; (b) suburban passenger
services; (c) rail transport o f future mining industries; and (d) services under public service obligation
schemes. The States may also impose infrastructure access to other operators in the case o f abuse o f
dominant position or significant failure o f the concessionaire to provide adequate services to clients.

Termination of the concession.The concession can be terminated : (a) at the end o f the concession period;
(b) because o f forfeiture, i.e. the concessionaire's failure to comply with the terms o f the concession; (c)
bankruptcy or dissolution o f the concessionaire; and (d) force major. When the concession is terminated:
(a) rail infrastructure return to the States, the concessionaire being compensated for the part o f the
investments agreed by the States not depreciated; (b) buildings and equipment may be purchased by the
States based on the value in the books o f the concessionaire; (c) financial obligations resulting from
investments agreed by the States are transferred to the States, obligations on investmentsnot agreed by the
States remain the responsibility of the concessionaire; (d) contracts sub-contracted, contracts with the staff
o f the concessionaire, contracts for the management o f the public domain are transferred to the States.

Lenders to the concession company have the right to assign a new operator as agreed with the States at the
signing o f the loan agreements without prior consultation with the States under the following circumstances
:(a) nonpayment of interest andprincipal under the loan agreements; (b) acceleration ofthe loan by one of
the lenders; and (c) bankruptcy o f the concessionaire.

Control of concession and dispute resolution. The concession agreement lists the documents that the
concessionaire produces annually to report on its activities. A Concession Monitoring Committee (CMC) is
being created comprising one representative from each Ministry of Transport o f S'h3al and Mali, two
representatives from the concessionaire and the president who does not belong to the administration and is
designated by the Ministers o f Transport o f S'hgal and Mali. CMC designates the auditor of the
concession which reviews compliance with the terms o f the concession agreement. This audit is carried out
three and five years after the start o f the concession and then every five years. Disputes related to the
concession agreement are subject to amicable resolution. If the resolution i s not successful, disputes are
settled by arbitration under the rules of the Uniform Act on Arbitration Rights o f the Treaty creating
OHADA.

Structure of the equity. The private concessionaire owns 51 percent o f the equity o f the concession
company. Both Governments of Mali and Senegal own each ten percent o f the equity. 20 percent o f the
equity will be sold on the regional market to private investors. Nine percent is owned by the staff o f the
company.




                                                     - 86 -

                       Additional Annex 13: Social and compensation plan
                  MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

1.Compensation plan

The compensation plan was negotiated between the Government, the management o f the public railway
company and the unions representing the staff o f the company. I t is based on two previous plans executed
in 1995 and 1997 and the plan approved by the Government in 2003 for the public cotton company
(Compagnie Malienne des Textiles). Negotiations were coordinated with the Government o f Senegal, the
Senegalese railway company and the Senegalese unions. The protocol signed between the unions and the
management o f the railway company in Mali includes indemnities defined by the Malian Law and
additional indemnities negotiated with the unions: (a) indemnity o f departure : one month o f gross salary
per month remaining before retirement up to a maximum o f 48 months; (b) indemnity o f difficulty o f
reemployment : half a month per year o f employment up to a maximum o f 12 months o f gross salary; and
(c) medical indemnity: CFAF 100,000 (US$180) per agent. According to the signed protocol, the total o f
these indemnities cannot be higher that the total o f salary and indemnities that the staff would have received
at retirement, The Government will also pay increases in salaries due to normal promotions and
contributions to the national insurance not paid by the railway company. The staff will have priority to
purchase houses owned by the railway company not transferred to the concessionaire. Obsolete railway
equipment and materials not transferred to or purchased by the concessionaire will be retroceded to the
staff.

The severance packages were paid in October 2003 based on procedures agreed with the Bank. A
consultant was responsible for calculating the indemnities based on information provided by the Human
Resources Department o f the railway company, Indemnities were paid under the supervision o f a committee
representing the Ministry o f Transport, the Ministry o f Finance, the Ministry o f Labor and the public
railway company. A financial audit is underway to confirm the calculation o f the indemnities and to
confirm the appropriateness o f payments.

2. Social plan

The social plan includes three components: (a) a communication strategy to be executed before the
concession is signed and the staff is laid off; (b) activities to help the redundant staff to find a new job; and
(c) a monitoring and evaluation component. The objective o f the communication strategy was to inform the
staff o f the railway company and the general public on the concessioning process and the content o f the
social plan. Its implementation was weak because the management staff o f the railway company, which
was part o f the potential redundant staff, gave up on its responsibilities. The Government launched an
information campaign targeting the general public.

To help the redundant staff to find a new job, an association was created, which members are
representatives from the civil society and from the unions. The unit will help identify training activities to
facilitate redeployment toward new activities, adaptation to new jobs and acquisition o f skills necessary to
develop personal projects. Training will be carried out mostly by existing training centers inMaLoperating
costs o f the unit and training will be financed by the Interim Transport Project. Redundant staff will
contribute financially by paying an entrance fee to have access to training. However, access to information
provided by the unit, group interviews and meetings organized by the unit, and micro-training (preparation
o f resumes) will be free.




                                                     - 87 -

The unit activities will be monitored and its impact evaluated annually. The unit will produce an annual
report describing its activities. A survey will be carried out each year to evaluate the use o f the unit and its
impact on the reemployment of redundant staff. The survey will also monitor the social impact of the
retrenchment plan.




                                                     - 88 -

              Additional Annex 14: Environmental and Social Management Plan
                  MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

 This annex summarizes the environmental and social management planpreparedfor the project.

 Road works
 Measures to mitigate the environmental and social impact o f the works are listed in the following table
 including a cost estimate. The measures will be included in the works contract. Their execution will be
 supervised by the supervision firm as requested inits contract.

I                                       Measures                                          I    Estimated cost I
 Site management
 Prevention o f accidental pollutions (retrieval and storage o f oil changes or other     b o specificcost
 petroleum products for evacuation and treatment)                                         lestimated
 Transport o f materials (defining trucks itineraries, road security training o f drivers,bospecific  cost
 minimize windblown dust during transportation by covering trucks)                        estimated
 Earth works (retrieval and storage o f cultivation earth, planting on slopes, drainage S6varbGao:
 around earthworks during rainy season and preliminary decantation o f important          CFAF 50,000,000
 wastes)
 Underground water (forbidding pumping inwells and oil changes, refueling and              No specific cost
 parking o f vehicles nearby)                                                              estimated
 Bridgerehabilitation and drainage (do not block free running waters and avoid            N o specific cost
 polluting rivers and creeks)                                                              estimated
 Site cleanliness (forbidding storing o f demolition materials and wrecked vehicles,      N o specific cost
 minimize dust emission)                                                                   estimated
'Staff site (priority given to local personnel for unskilled tasks, housing built on the No specific cost
 site will have solid waste collection system and sanitarv installations)                  estimated
 Protection of plants
 Large trees (cutting of trees will need to bejustified before being approved by the       Bamako-Bougouni:
 MinistryofEquipmentabove 2m ofdiameter o f30m ofheight andby the                          CFAF 1,000,000
 supervision missionbelow these thresholds)
 Protection o f vegetation (transportation tracks avoiding vegetation, tree protection Bamako-Bougouni:
 from trucks and heavy vehicles))                                                          CFAF 500,000
                                                                                           Shark-Gao:
                                                                                           CFAF 50,000,000
 Borrowing sites
 Opening o f new sites (obtain prior authorization)                                        No specific cost
                                                                                           estimated
 Modification o f hydraulic regime (rehabilitation o f water flows, minimize use o f       Bamako-Bougouni:
 explosives near water collection system, deepening o f bordering wells iftheir            CFAF 200,000,000
 potential diminishes)                                                                     Shark-Gao:
                                                                                           CFAF 44,000,000
 Water quality (avoid spilling o f washing waters innatural environment)                   No specific cost
                                                                                           estimated
 Rehabilitation o f borrowing sites                                                        Shark-Gao:
                                                                                           CFAF 150,000,000




                                                       - 89 -

 Protection of wild life
 Interdiction o f consumption o f local wild life                                       No specific cost
                                                                                        estimated
 Interdictiono f throwing out solid waste                                               No specific cost
                                                                                        estimated
 Protection of landscape (planting hardy grass on slopes, mitigation o fborrowing No specific cost
 pits, removal of wrecked vehicles)                                                     estimated
 Planting of trees                                                                      Bamako-Bougouni:
                                                                                        CFAF 3,750,000
                                                                                        Skvark-Gao:
                                                                                        CFAF 37.500.000
 Road safety
 Parking areas invillages and road widening for pedestrians and bicycles                 Bamako-Bougouni:
                                                                                         CFAF 25,000,000
 Slowing o f cars invillages, signaling                                                 SBvark-Gao:
                                                                                        CFAF 8,000,000
                                                                                        Bamako-Bougouni:
                                                                                        CFAF85.000.000
IInformation.  education and sensitization
 Other measures                                                                         ICFAF 4.000.000
                                                                                         CFAF 65,000,000       I

 EnvironmentalAction Plan of the railway concession
 The Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP) identifies the necessary measures to mitigate negative
 environmental and social impacts o f project activities. These measures are organized in three categories o f
 activities:
          Measures related to the network management and fixed installations;
          Measures related to rolling stock management, and
          Measures related to rail transport.
 The importance o f the impact level o f rail activities has been evaluated and the priority level o f the
 measures has been established from 1 (low) to 4 (high). The ESAP provides for its implementation plan,
 costs evaluation and monitoring plan of the implementation

 Network management andfwed installations measures:
0    Exogenous pollution: Provide dumpsters for populations along rail track. Transport by Transrail for
     unloading. Financing issues regarding dumpsters acquisition costs and financial compensation for costs
     and activities supported by Transail instead o f local governments.
0    Pollution of passengers' stations (level 2): sweeping and floor cleaning, waste disposal.
0    Pollution inmarshalling yards and freight stations (level 2): continuation of existing measures.
0    Pollution inadministrations (level 1): no measures.
0    Pollution inworkshops that are not linked to rolling stock (level 1): no measures.

Rolling stock management measures:
0    Maintaining and repair shops for motive power and wagons (level 4):
          Retrieval o f oil from oil changes, storage and treatment by a specialized reprocessing plant.
          Floor cleaning.
          Retrieval o f oil spills: drainage and retrieval of waters mixed with oil for separation, recovery and
                   treatment.


                                                       - 90 -

     Improvement o f workers protective equipment inworkshops.
e Diesel oil depot o f Dakar-Bel Air (level 4): same as above
e Repair workshop o f towed material o f Dakar-Bel Air
     Installation o f a ventilation system
     Improvement o f workers protective equipment inworkshop.
e Rail workshop o f Dakar (not included inthe concession)
     Construction o f concrete area to collect acid water in a catch basin, neutralize water by
               restlessness, and then only drain off.
e Depot for diesel motive power units o f Thibs:
     Retrieval o f used oil and other petroleum products.
     Rehabilitation o f contaminated grounds (Creation o f a compost area, cleaning o f grounds,
     installation o f an oil separator on the pipe coming out o f the motive power cleaning area).
     Ground cleaning.
      Retrieval o f oil spills : drainage and retrieval o f waters mixed with oil for separation, recovery and
               treatment.
      Improvement o f workers protective equipmentinthe depot.
e Wagon repair workshop of Thibs
      Taking care and removal o f solid waste.
      Retrieval o f usedoil and other petroleum products.
      Ground cleaning.
      Improvement o f workers protective equipment inthe depot.
      Recruiting specialists for changing the cooling liquid for A/C o f passengers' wagons if it contains
               CFC.
e Electricity division o f Thibs workshops
      Taking care o f the batteries electrolyte.
      Taking care o f the Cd Nibatteries.
  Rail workshops innortheastern area and Thibs
      Creation o f an oil separator for small rain.
  Guinguinbo workshops
      Retrieval o f used oil from oil changes
  Tambacounda and Kayes workshops
      Retrieval o f usedoil from oil changes
      Taking care and removal o f solid waste.
      Rationalized management o f usedbatteries
e Korofina central workshops
      Retrieval o f used oil from oil changes
      Creation o f an oil separator on the sewer coming from the motive power washing area.
      Taking care and removal o f solid waste.
      Creation o f a compost area
      Ground cleaning.
      Improvement o f workers protective equipment inthe depot.
      Recruiting specialists for changing the cooling liquid for A/C o f passengers' wagons if it contains
               CFC.
e Fuel service station o f PTB inDakar
      Repair o f casing o f oil tanks
e Diesel oil service station of Bamako-Korofina
      Tank and filling area protection




                                                    - 91  -

Rail transport measures
0         Diffuse pollution: these measures deal essentially with the Dakar-Thibs section and transport o f
minerals by or for the SociCtC des Phosphates de Thies et des Industries Chimiques du SCnCgal. These
measures consist o f (i)   removal o f products spilled on the rail track and cleaning o f the rail track; (ii)
invoicing the companies responsible for the cost o f these measures; (iii) on traffic of leaking wagons;
                                                                              ban
and (iv) the application o f police, security and surveillance o f railways regulations.
0         Sulphur spilling: These measures consist o f :(i)   rehabilitation o f contaminated grounds, and (ii)
acquisition o f appropriated wagons to improve methods and conditions o f sulphur transport.
0         Accidental pollutions: Rules are difficult to set as situations vary. As a preventive measure, it i s
recommended to use good practice procedures regarding infrastructures and rolling stock maintenance and
type o f load.

Width of rail track measures
A resettlement policy framework for inhabitants along the rail track is under preparation in Senegal. It
would be applied to Mali in case resettlement measures would be needed, inparticular for security reasons.
As a preventive measure, a sensitization campaign towards population will be launched regarding dangers
related with the rail track intheir daily farming and commercial operations.
Measures also include protection o f natural environment: installation o f stone cordons, installation to direct
and regulate water flows, tree planting to increase water seepage, to slow down water flows and help
replenish ground water, enlargement o f some bridges or crossing structures.

Capacity strengtheningmeasures
          Concessionaire: the concessionaire has hired an environmental expert to help implement the
    mitigations measures identifiedinthe environmental audit.
          InMali and Senegal:
    + In   Mali, the Project Coordination Unit will be strengthened with a social and environmental expert
    recruited locally. The expert will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation o f
    the project's Environmental and Social Action Plan (ESAP). H e or she will receive support from an
    international expert who will carry out short-term missions.

    + In   Senegal, several capacity enhancement activities will be undertaken through CELCO and the Carl
    Bro, the intemational Consultant providing technical assistance to CELCO. These include among
    other: (i) the creation o f a permanent environmental structure within the Ministryo f Transport, (ii), and
    the elaboration o f sectoral guides to integrate environmental and social concems in the design and
    implementation o f transport projects; (iii) renovation and maintenance o f the environmental and
                                                  the
    social impact website, and (iv) the description o f procedures to review TORSfor effective inclusion o f
    environmental and social concems inproject's activities.


                                                              Mali              Senegal            Total
Environmental impacts mitigation measures              I      720        I        710       I      1,430        I
Width o f the rail track measures
   Security, resettlement                                      69                 312               381
   Natural environment protection                             225                 225               450
Capacity strengthening                                         70                  70               140
Total                                                        1,084               1,317             2,401




                                                      -92  -

 The costs o f measures to mitigate the environmental impact of railway operations inMali will be borne by
 the Transport Corridor Improvement Project.

 Evaluation and monitoring

I                                        Monitoring methods and               Personsin charge             Period
  Measures                                     arrangements
  Measures for compliance        Monitoring o f compliance with laws,         Concessionairel            3eginning o f
  with environmental laws      egulations, instructions or other              environmental              )perations
  and standards inboth         pidelinesrelatedto connected railways          unit
  countries                    ctivities.
                               - Monitoring o f compliance of rail
                               facilities with effective technical
                               standards for environmental protection
                               - Monitoring     o f compliance o f facilities
                               for oil discharge, wastewater and solid
                               waste treatment with countrv standards:
                               Periodic monitoring o f physico-chemical       Concessionairel    Permanent,
                                characteristics o f effluents to check        environmental unit during
                                compliance with corresponding country                                    onerations
                                standards                                     DEEC (Senegal)             Biannual
                                                                              DNCPN (Mali)
                                                                              CELCO and....
  Measures for reducing         A waste management planwill be                Concessionairel            Before
  pollution and nuisance on     preparedbefore beginning o f operations       environmental unit operations
  living environment
                                Sites and rail track will be checked          Concessionaire/            Permanent,
                                regularly to verify compliance with and       environmental unit during
                                implementation o f oil discharge, solid                                  operations
                                waste and noise reduction strategies.                           I
                                                                                                I
                                Permanent monitoring to verify level o f      Concessionairel
                                nuisance disturbance o f populationliving     environmental
                                                                               .....             r::r:ons
                                                                                           ~


                                environment:                                  unit              1-1




                                --- discharge
                                - noise  from vehicles, wagons and engine      DEEC (Senegal) IBiannual
                                    waste spill during transfer                DNCPN (Mali)
                                    smellfrom pile o f garbage                 CELCO and TSP
                                              o f liquideffluents (oil, etc.)
                                and stagnation o f pluvial or wastewater
                                - waste   disposal, cluttering and
                                insecurity.                                                     I




                                                        - 93 -

Sanitary, health and          Sanitary issues: a permanent monitoring       Concessionairel   hring
security measures             will be provided to verify:
                              -- respect                                    environmental     perations
                                 health condition o f rail staff            unit
                                        o f sanitary conditions o f         Sanitary District
                              populations along the rail track
                              - resuect                                     Health Service
                                        o f health guidelines on the site
                              Security measures: permanent control          Concessionairelen luring
                              will be provided to verify:                   vironmental unit  )perations
                              - availability o f security orders in case o f DEEC (Senegal)   3iannual
                              accident
                              - existence                                    DNCPN (Mali)
                                           o f appropriate signaling         CELCO and TSP
                              respect o f traffic regulations                (Mali)
                              - wearing  o f appropriate workers
                              protective equipment
                              - checking  the implementation ofthe
                              security measures for users and
                              populations along the rail track
I----                         An information and sensitizationprogran Concessionairel         3efore
                              for management and rail workers and            environmental    )perations
                              populations along the rail track will be       unit             Jegin
                              prepared and implemented                       SpecializedNGOs
 Social measures              Social monitoring o f deflated staff          ZARCHEM           During
                              Monitoring o f resettlement o f               CELCO (Senegal)   operations
                              transferred population                        PCU (Mali)
                              Monitoring o f sensitization program for
                              populations and rail operation staff
                              Monitoring o f securing measures along
                              rail tracks

Resettlement Policy Framework
A Resettlement Policy Framework was prepared by the Government o f Mali as due diligence. It defines the
procedures to follow if involuntary resettlement, loss o f assets or access to assets were to occur during
project implementation.

Monitoring implementation of Environmental and Social Action Plan
The Project Coordination Unit will be strengthened with a social and environmental expert recruited
locally. The expert will be responsible for monitoring implementation o f the project's environmental and
social action plan (ESAP). She will ensure that measures described above are implemented, that reporting
required under the project is provided either by the consulting firms supervising road works execution or by
the railway concessionaire. The expert will consolidate and summarize the reports and provide an annual
report on implementation o f the ESAP. S/he will receive support from an intemational expert who will
carry out short-term missions.




                                                       - 94 -

            Additional Annex 15: Reference prices of cereals in Mopti and Gao
               MALI: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

The two following tables compare the consumer prices of cereals inCFAF per kilogram inMopti and Gao
during the 1998-2002 period. The reference year for comparison with prices during the period o f project
execution is 2001.




Prices in Gao are higher than prices in Mopti. This reflects the increase in transport costs either to import
products inGao or to import inputs for agricultural production. Price trends are similar inboth cities. Price
variations inMopti are generally greater than inGao.




                                                   - 95 -


