Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB590
Project Name               MALI - TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Region                     Africa Regional Office
Sector                     Railways (50%); Roads and highways (50%)
Theme                       Infrastructure services for private sector development (P)
Project                     P079351
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Implementing Agency(ies)    MINISTRY OF EQUIPMENT, MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
Coordination Unit of Transport Sector Program
Address:
Contact Person: M. Thiemoko Yoro Kone, Coordinator of Transport Sector
Program
Tel: 223.219230    Fax: 223.219230      Email: pst@datatech.net.ml
Transrail, Concessionaire of rail services between Dakar and Bamako
Address:
Contact Person: M. R6jean Belanger, CEO
Tel: (514) 399-5609   Fax:       Email: rbelanger@canac.com
National Highway Department, Ministry of Equipment and Land Development
Address: Avenue de la Liberte, BP 1758, Bamako, Mali
Contact Person: M. Gaboune Keita, Director
Tel: 223.22.29.02   Fax: 223.23.60.92     Email: Dntp@Cefib.Com
Environment Category        B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared           January 5, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date         December 22, 2003
Bank Approval Date          February 19, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
2.1 Country Context and Sector Background. Mali is a 1.2 million square kilometer landlocked country
South of the Sahara, sixty percent of which is covered by desert. The Malian economy, based mainly on
agriculture subject to marked climatic vagaries, depends entirely on imports and cotton, its only export
commodity. Therefore, efficient functioning of its international transport system is necessary for the
procurement of numerous strategic commodities (notably petroleum products) and consumer and capital
goods. It is also imperative to enable Mali's exports--particularly of fiber cotton, its leading export, which
accounts for 85 percent of export tonnage--to compete on the international market. The dispersion of
activities across a vast territory, the pronounced disparities in population densities, rapid urban growth and
the ensuing development of trade flows have also made domestic transport of goods as well as passengers
particularly important. Transport accounts for 20-30 percent of the cost of most essential products.
Reducing vulnerability and increasing future competitiveness of Mali's economy will depend in large part
on improving the operational efficiency of its transport system.
Until the September 2002 crisis in C6te d'Ivoire, the country used two main transportation corridors, the
Bamako - Dakar rail system through Senegal, and the Bamako - Abidjan road network through C6te
d'lvoire. International traffic in Mali increased rapidly during the 1990s (from 917,000 tons in 1993 to
2,000,000 tons in 1999). During the period, the market share of the railway declined substantially (from
34% to 18%), mainly due to the inability of the railway to provide adequate capacity and quality of service.
Since the crisis in Cote d'Ivoire, international traffic has been diverted through the port of Tema in Ghana,



2
PID
and, in a lesser way, through the port of Lome in Togo.
(i) Roads: Over the past two decades Mali has put substantial effort into the development of its transport
infrastructure, particularly its road network. Nevertheless, its road density remains one of the lowest in
West Africa, with 1.2 km of road per 100 km2, compared to 3.1 for the Economic Community of West
African States as a whole.
Insufficient resources allocated to the maintenance of the road networks and inefficiency of the
Government's force account used for road maintenance have led to substantial maintenance backlogs and
have accelerated the deterioration of the existing network. Out of a 8,786 km network under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport, 78 percent was in poor or bad condition at the
end of 2002. Rehabilitation is required on 5,493 km of roads. 1,515 km of roads would need periodic
maintenance during the next three years. Although, as agreed during Transport Sector Project (Cr
2617-MLI, May 26, 1994) preparation, the Government increased the resources allocated to road
maintenance to about US$4.6 million a year, they remained below the real needs (estimated for routine
maintenance at about US$7 million a year during TSP appraisal and at about US$10 million during this
project's preparation), despite the large volume of government revenues levied in the sector and estimated in
1996 at US$72 million for revenues generated by the entire road taxation system and US$30 million for
revenues generated by specific taxes applied only to road transport. Most Government resources were
allocated to routine maintenance while periodic maintenance has usually been financed by donors. During
the past ten years, annual resources for periodic maintenance have averaged CFAF7 billion with a 9
percent contribution from the Government. Resources have increased during the past four years with an
annual average of CFAF 12 billion and a 10 percent contribution from the Government.
(ii) Railways: Until October 2003, the 1228 km-long Dakar-Bamako railway was operated by two
parastatal companies: The Societe Nationale de Chemins de Fer du Senegal (SNCS) operated the
Senegalese part (644km) and the Regie Nationale du Chemin de Fer du Mali (RCFM) operated the Malian
part (584km). Rail infrastructure is old and suffers from a lack of maintenance, particularly on the Malian
section. Traction and rolling stock was adequate in quantity, but also suffers from inadequate maintenance
and poor utilization. Despite staff reduction programs implemented in the 90s, the two parastatals
remained overstaffed. They lacked commercial orientation and financial discipline. The attempt to better
coordinate the operation and marketing of international services through a joint SNCS/RCFM body in the
mid-90s failed. While demand for international traffic to and from Mali has increased substantially,
railway traffic has decreased due to severe limitation on transport capacity resulting from deteriorated
infrastructure as well as poor quality of service. The financial situation of RCFM also severely
deteriorated, mainly due to the increase of unit labor costs and, more generally, due to poor management.
After a modest profit (CFAF 222 million) in 1997, losses reached CFAF 2.9 billion in 1998, CFAF 2.9
billion in 1999 and CFAF 1.8 billion in 2000 (the equivalent of US$ 2.5 million) or about 20 percent of the
company's tumover during the same year.
2.2 Public sector reform. The PRSP describes the Government strategy to reform public sector and
promote private sector development. The objectives of the reform are to refocus the role of the State and
divest of productive activities, modernize the institutions and transform economic structures, liberalize
markets and reform business laws. The strategy for private sector development comprises : strengthening of
partnership between the State and the private sector; consolidation and development of infrastructure and
services aimed at supporting the development of enterprises in areas with strong economic potential;
strengthening of the markets' institutional and regulatory framework; and building of a strong and
performing financial sector. An action plan has been defined accordingly for the short and mi-terms and is
developed in the PRSP.
Privatization of public enterprises is part of the second pillar of the strategy for private sector development.
Strategic partners hold a majority in the equity of the water and electricity public utilities. The most critical
measures being taken now are in the cotton area which is the major agricultural produce in Mali. The
sector restructuring plan adopted in 2001 and supported by the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr.



3
PID
3582 approved on December 11, 2001) aims at reforming and liberalizing the cotton sector, including
privatization of the cotton parastatal cotton company's agro-industrial and commercial activities. The
Government has already privatized Hotel Amitie, the tobacco company SONATAM (Societe Nationale des
Tabacs et Allumettes du Mali), the electricity company EDM (Electricite du Mali), and Banque Malienne
de Credit et de Dep6ts (BMCD). It has also adopted laws to open the telecommunications sector to
competition, as well as to privatize the telecommunications company, SOTELMA (Societe des
Telecommunications du Mali). The action plan for the financial sector reform program has also been
finalized, and progress has been made in restructuring the Banque d 'Investissement de Mali (BIM-SA) for
privatization. Two cellular phone licenses were issued. Preparations for the privatization of the bank
BIM-SA and SOTELMA are at an advanced stage. The sale of BIM-SA is underway. Additionally, the
government has passed a new law in May 2002 to allow the private sector to assume majority ownership in
SOTELMA. In November 2003, the Government announced its intention to initiate negotiations with the
private consortium which was awarded the concession of ADM (Aeroports du Mali) following the bidding
procedure launched in early 2003. The other public enterprises which remain in the State portfolio are
lesser enterprises. The Government is discussing with the Bank possible support to divest of these
enterprises.
In parallel to private sector development, the Government has developed an action plan to improve the
performance of the public administration. This action plan aims at refocusing the State on its essential
missions of public service while making other actors responsible in the development area (local
communities, civil society, women, private sector). The action plan is developed along two areas:
(a) institutional framework : better define the missions and the role of the State; identify and transfer to the
private sector the activities where public intervention is not justified; transfer to local communities
responsibilities as defined in the law; restructure and strengthen the administration based on an
organizational audit; define and implement a deconcentration policy for public services;
(b) human resource management: define a policy to strengthen the capacity in the social sectors in the
administration; implement a training plan for civil servants; define a policy for career development and
reform the statute of civil servants; revise the wage and the social security policy for civil servants.
2.3 Sector issues and Government strategy. The Government has implemented several reforms with the
support of the donor community under the umbrella of the Transport Sector Program during the past ten
years.The Government strategy to achieve the development objectives in the Letter of Sector Policy adopted
in 1993 was to develop competition between transport modes and enterprises on a sound basis; to improve
condition of infrastructure, for the road and rail networks, by applying a suitable maintenance policy; and
to continue the process of opening up areas that lack easy access. The following paragraphs summarize the
status of implementation of the strategy, the main issues and the current strategic choices of the
Government:
- road maintenance financing: Past inefficient management of road maintenance resources has led the
Government to commercialize it by involving road users in decision making process, essentially the
approval or road maintenance programs and by financing road maintenance from road user charges. An
autonomous Road Fund (RF) was created in August 2000 reflecting best practice in other countries where
RFs have been established. The Road Fund is managed by a Board of Directors with five representatives
from road users, two representatives from local governments and five representatives from the Govemment.
Before the Fund was created, management of road maintenance resources was characterized by lack of
accountability, inadequacy between resources allocated and road maintenance needs, delays in provision of
funds resulting in deferred road maintenance, accelerated road deterioration and increased road
maintenance and transport costs. The Government intends to more than double road maintenance resources
during the next five years and significantly increase resources generated by road user charges which would
represent about 75 percent of road maintenance resources in 2008.
- road maintenance management: The Govermment recognizes that the Government administration is not
the best environment for road maintenance management conducive to efficiency and transparency. The



4
PID
reasons are lack of incentive for administrative staff, cumbersome procurement procedures, lack of
resources for operating expenditures, Govemment interference in day-to day management of road
maintenance resulting in untimely programming and procurement, delays in execution of seasonal works,
and overall disconnect between the initial and actual programs and resources. A new framework for road
maintenance management is being designed by the Govemment which is envisaging to restructure the
Public Works Department along two possible options: the first option keeps responsibilities for
programming works in the Public Works Department and transfers responsibilities for managing the
execution of road maintenance works to an autonomous executing agency; the second option transfers both
responsibilities to an autonomous executing agency. A study financed by the European Community is
underway to provide the basis for the decision.
- road maintenance execution: The Government decided to transfer execution of road maintenance works to
private contractors, starting with the second semester of 2002 after the Road Fund became fully
operational. In 2001, more than 40 percent of road maintenance works was still executed by force account.
Under the TSP, the Govemment-owned public works equipment was transferred to a mixte public-private
company, which eventually became bankrupt. In 2003, all road maintenance was executed by contractors
at the exception of emergency works in remote areas in the Extreme North where use of contractors would
be too costly.
- rail transport: Although restructuring measures defined during the TSP were implemented, they could not
be sustained because of Government involvement in management of the company resulting in overstaffing,
inefficient management and operation of non-profitable services for political reason and because of
increased competition with the Bamako-Abidjan corridor. The joint Senegalese-Malian company created
for managing intemational rail traffic could not keep up with the newly privatized and much more
competitive railway company in C6te d'Ivoire which ended by capturing most of the traffic of petroleum
products previously transported by rail from Dakar or by road from Abidjan. Compared to the early 1990s
where rail traffic peaked at more than 500,000 tons, it amounts now only at about 250,000 tons for
intemational traffic and 70,000 tons for local traffic. The Government decided in 2000 to transfer
intemational rail operations to a private operator while keeping the public railway company for domestic
operations and keeping the ownership of rail equipment leased out to the private operator. In 2001, this
strategy was rescinded and the Government decided that all traffic including equipment would be
transferred to a private concessionaire. The concession was awarded to a joint-venture of private operators
in February 2003 and signed on September 24, 2003. The concessionaire started its operations on early
October 2003.
- road transport: The sector suffers from low profitability resulting from three major issues: overcapacity,
overloaded trucks and aging vehicle fleet. Trucks are overloaded as shown by surveys carried out during
the period of execution of the Transport Sector Project. No recent data are available because the weighing
stations are out of order. The Government recently purchased new weighing stations which are being tested
before being installed. Statistics from the Transport Observatory show that the vehicle fleet is aging. About
95 percent of trailers and tankers are more than 11-year old. This results from the overcapacity diagnosed
when the Transport Sector Project was prepared. The consequence of this overcapacity is a low number of
trips per truck and poor profitability of the activity, which prevents to renew the fleet at the exception of
some large transporters.
- transit transport: Efficiency of transit is hampered by several issues : (a) procedures for interstate road
transit are not applied making transit through borders cumbersome; (b) unauthorized road blocks are a
source of harassment for travellers and generate bribery and corruption. As landlocked country, Mali
suffers particularly from these problems. They were salient in C6te d'Ivoire and are increasing in Ghana
where transit traffic is transferring because of the crisis in C6te d'Ivoire. Transit issues are addressed
through a regional facilitation program prepared by the West Africa Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). The program extends to the
ECOWAS region a pilot developed by WAEMUJ which consisted in two components: (a) creation of



0
5
PID
Observatories of practices along key road corridors; and (b) construction and equipment of joint border
posts at key borders. The program's content was discussed during a workshop with representatives from the
ECOWAS countries, regional institutions, private sector and donors held in Accra on November 10 to 12,
2003. It will cover improvement and harmonization of transit regulation, improvement of transit procedures
efficiency, improvement of road and port infrastructure, monitoring and evaluation. The Abidjan-Bamako
is one of the priority corridors which will receive support from the program.
- rural transport: The Government has launched the preparation of a rural transport strategy to address
rural transport issues. These issues were identified with the support of the Rural Travel and Transport
Program which is part of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Program (SSATP) developed with support of
several donors including the Bank. The first issue is lack of sound allocation of responsibilities. Since rural
roads were necessary for rural development, the responsibility for developing the rural road network was
taken over by rural development agencies. Since these agencies very often had a monopoly on the
production of major produces, they could impose an additional charge on the price to the producer to
finance this development. With the collapse of most of these agencies because of management inefficiencies
and the liberalization of prices and markets, the agencies could not sustain this additionnal charge which
would have made the exports uncompetitive and have been unable to bear the cost of developing and
maintaining the rural roads. In the absence of institutional arrangements for the transfer of responsibility
for maintenance from these agencies to the Government, the roads were not maintained and the network
eventually collapsed. The second issue is the lack of resources for rural road maintenance. This is
compounded by the fact that resources for maintenance of the primary road network are themselves
insufficient. Support to the definition of the strategy is provided under the National Rural Infrastructure
Program (Credit 3393-MLI approved on June 27, 2000).
The Government has prepared a Letter of Transport Sector Policy (see Annex 11) which describes the
strategy that it intends to implement during the next three years to achieve the two objectives with support
from the proposed project.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project are to (a) improve alternative corridors to the ports of Dakar and Abidjan by
rail and road respectively; and (b) sustain accessibility to the Northern region of Mali, one of the poorest
region in the country.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has played an active role in developing the Transport Sector Project, of which the proposed
Transport Corridors Improvement Project (TCIP) is a follow-up. During TSP implementation, the Bank
continued to advise the Government on sector issues which resulted in the launch of the concessionning
process for railway services and the creation of the Road Fund.
During TCIP implementation, the Bank will continue to advise the Government by bringing its experience
in monitoring rail concessions, Road Fund operations and execution of road maintenance by contract.
Advising the Government is key during this transitory period where capacity needs still to be built on such
aspects as regulation of railway concession, definition of road maintenance programs, promotion of SMEs
and quality control in execution of road maintenance works.
The Bank is providing similar support to Senegal under the Second Transport Sector Project (Cr.
3183-SE). The project cofinanced with the Transport Sector Project in Mali advisory services for the
concessioning of railway services. The Senegal project has also allocated funds to rehabilitate the railway
track. Both projects in Mali and Senegal will complement each other.
TCIP will also be the link in Mali with the transport and facilitation component of the regional integration
program for West Africa countries developed by regional institutions (West Africa Economic and



6
PID
Monetary Union, Economic Community of West African States). This program is supported by most
donors and the Bank is a key actor with the European Union and the African Development Bank. The
transport and transit facilitation component will address issues along international corridors such as illegal
road barriers, truck overload, implementation of customs procedures at borders, lack of harmonization of
road transport regulations among countries, and inadequate implementation of interstate road transport
procedures.
The Bank will also help Mali to incorporate HIV/AIDS issues and road safety issues in the transport sector
based on its experience in other countries. A handbook on transport and HIV/AIDS has been prepared by
the Bank which provides guidelines for mitigating the impact of transport projects. The Africa Region of
the World Bank recently carried out an audit of the road safety components in its projects. The report
became available in July 2003. The implementation team will include a road safety expert which will apply
the lessons of the audit to the project.
As explained in the paragraph on project alternatives, no other donor has resources currently available to
replace IDA financing. Lack of resources for financing redundancies in the public railway company would
jeopardize the concessionning process with serious negative impact on the social climate and the access of
Mali to the port of Dakar in Senegal. In the road sector, postponement of periodic road maintenance on the
two roads included in the project would make the future rehabilitation works much more costly and also
impact negatively on the accessibility to the Gao region in the North or between Mali and the ports on the
West African coast.
4. Description
In support of the above objectives, and as a follow-up of the reforms achieved under the Transport Sector
Project, the proposed project seeks to: (a) support the concessionning of railway services between Dakar
and Bamako, including financing of redundancies and necessary upgrading of the rail infrastructure; and
(b) rehabilitate the road infrastructure and secure an all-year satisfactory level of service along the road
Bamako-borders of C6te d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso and the road Bamako-Gao which links the Extreme
North of Mali to the rest of the country.
The proposed operation will include three components.
Component A Rail component.
Sub-component A1: Social and compensation plan. The sub-component will support implementation of
the social and compensation plan to mitigate the impact of the concessioning of rail services to a private
operator on staff declared redundant. The plan includes the following activities: (a) financing of severance
payment; (b) technical advisory services in and operating costs of the unit created to provide support to
redundant staff in evaluating training needs, finding a new job, preparing personal business projects; (c)
measures aimed at facilitating reinsertion of redundant staff; and (d) technical advisory services to monitor
the social impact of redundancies during and after the period of implementation of the social and
compensation plan.
Severance packages were paid in October 2003. Eligible expenditures confirmed by an audit report will be
financed retroactively by the proposed project as approved by Bank management in June 2003.
Sub-Component A2 : Infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization. The sub-component will support
rehabilitation of the most deteriorated sections of the railway track between Bamako and the Senegalese
border. The sections to be maintained will be defined by the private concessionnaire of the railway
company. The activities in the sub-component are : (a) procurement of inputs (rail, sleepers, ballast) to



7
PID
rehabilitation works ; (b) measures to mitigate the environmental and social impact of the rehabilitation
works and past degradations prior to the concession ; and (d) technical advisory services for
implementation and monitoring of the railway component of the social and environmental mitigation plan of
the project.
Sub-Component A3 : Institutional support. The sub-component includes technical advisory services for the
first audit of the railway concession scheduled during the third year of the concession in the concession
agreement, and support to the committee appointed to monitor implementation of the concession and
compliance with the concession agreement.
Component B: Road maintenance conmponent.
Sub-component B]: Periodic maintenance of road network. The sub-component will include: (a) periodic
maintenance of: (i) the 154 km section of the road between Bamako and Bougouni, which is part of the
road linking Bamako, the capital city of Mali, to the ports on the West African Coast (Abidjan in Cote
d'lvoire, Tema in Ghana, and Lome in Togo) ; and (ii) the 558 km section of the road between Sevare and
Gao, which is part of the only road giving access from Bamako to the Extreme North of Mali; (b) technical
advisory services for supervision of works; and (c) measures to protect environment, to improve road safety
and to prevent the spread of I-V/AIDS resulting from the presence of civil works contractors in the
villages along both roads. HIV/AIDS activities will include sensitization campaigns in parallel to the road
works and railway operations to prepare the sector stakeholders to participate fully in the HIV/AIDS MAP
project under preparation by the Bank. Road safety activities include equipment for road safety databank,
adaptation of driving course teaching and exam documents to local context and language, supply of one
second-hand articulated truck for driving courses, study to improve both formal and informal teaching of
driving awareness building and road safety campaigns, vertical and horizontal signaling, parking areas in
the villages, and access to the customs area at the entry of Bamako.
Given the social importance of the Sevare-Gao road as it keeps open the access to one of the poorest region
of Mali, the civil works on the road will be financed with the IDA grant.
Sub-component B2: Institutional support. The sub-component will include (a) technical advisory services
for impact monitoring; (b) technical advisory services, equipment and training to support implementation of
road sector reforms and strengthening of the local road construction industry; (c) environmental and social
impact assessment of road maintenance, strengthening of the capacity of the Road Agency to implement
environmental and social mitigation action plans.
Component C: Project management: The component includes : (a) technical audit of the works carried
out and the goods provided in components A and B (review of procurement procedure, quality of works,
compliance with contracts); (b) technical advisory services for fiduciary aspects of project coordination
(financial management specialist, accountant); (c) financial audit of project accounts; and (d) operating
costs of the project coordination unit.
Financing Plan. The project is supported by the donor community. Two Round Table of Donors
facilitated by the Bank in 2003 successfully brought together about 10 donors interested in supporting the
railway concession. The French Development Agency (FDA), the West African Development Bank
(WADB), IDA and the concessionaire will finance the investment plan for the next five years.The WADB
project was signed with the public railway company and is transferred to the concessionaire. The FDA
project will be evaluated in February 2004. In the road sector, the African Development Bank approved in
November 2003 a project to improve the Ghana-Burkina Faso-Mali corridor which includes the
Bougouni-Sikasso road, continuation of the Bamako-Bougouni road financed under the present IDA



8
PID
project. WADB is considering to complement the financing plan of the AfDB project.
A. Rail Component
Al. Social and Compensation Plan  US$13.60
A2. Rehabilitation of Railway Track US$43.20
B. Road Maintenance Component     US$73.00
C. Project management             US$ 0.90
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($16.90)
IDA ($33.20)
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ($16.00)
BORROWING AGENCY ($0.50)
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT ($25.10)
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE ($15.50)
WEST AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK ($17.70)
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) ($5.80)
Total Project Cost: $130.70
6. Implementation
Institutional arrangements
The delegate Ministry in charge of Transport will oversee the rail component. The new concessionaire will
be the executing agency of the railway rehabilitation sub-component of the project. The Govemment of
Mali will onlend the IDA funds on IBRD-plus terms to the concessionaire. A concession monitoring
committee (CMC) will be created in accordance with the concession agreement included in the bidding
documents for the selection of the concessionaire. CMC will comprise representatives from the
Govemments of Mali and Senegal and from the concessionaire. CMC will act as a forum for the
Govemment of Mali and the concessionaire to monitor execution of the concession agreement, including
implementation of the concessionaire's investment program and compliance with transport regulations in
both countries, in particular those related to safety and environment.
An audit of the concession is scheduled in the concession agreement the third and the fifth year of the
concession and every five years after that. The audit will review compliance with the terms of the
concession agreement by the Government and the concessionaire, and contracts between the concessionaire
and contractors linked to the reference strategic shareholders.
An association with representatives from the civil society and from the redundant staff was created with
TSP support to implement the social and compensation management plan to mitigate the impact of the
redundancies. TSP will finance the operation of the unit until TSP's closing date on December 31, 2004
and the proposed project will finance the operation of the unit in 2005. A plan of action is available in the
project files which details the tasks of the unit, its staff and its budget.
The Ministry of Equipment and Transport will oversee the road component. The Department of Public
Works will be the executing agency of the component until a new institution is created following the
on-going process on the definition of a Road Agency with EU financing. Responsibilities for managing the
component will then be transferred to the new institution.
Implementation arrangements
Period of project execution and mid-term review. The Interim Transport Project is expected to be
executed in four years and to be closed on June 30, 2008. The Borrower, the concessionaire and IDA will



9
PID
carry out a mid-term review no later than June 30, 2006. The review will monitor project implementation
progress, performance of the concessionaire and project performance indicators. It will also identify
implementation issues and agree to a plan of action to address these issues. No later than May 15, 2006,
the Borrower and the concessionaire will prepare a mid-term assessment including: (a) project
implementation status and use of credit resources; (b) performance indicators; (c) progress in
implementation of environmental and social mitigation plan; and (d) a draft action plan including revised
disbursements and updated procurement plan covering the period through project completion.
Recommendations from the mid-term review will be implemented promptly by the Borrower and the
concessionaire.
Implementation of the railway component: The Government will onlend from the IDA credit the resources
for railway track rehabilitation on IBRD-plus terms to the Concessionaire. The Government will make
available from the IDA credit and as a grant to the concessionaire, funds required to repair environmental
degradations resulting from railway activities prior to the concession. The concessionaire will finance from
its own resources the measures to mitigate the environmental and social impact of railway activities after
the concession.
Bank supervision. The first year of project implementation, the Bank will carry two supervision missions
with a particular emphasis on implementation of the social and compensation management plan for the
redundancies in the railway company; and of the environmental and social mitigation plan of the
concession, especially the repairs of degradations resulting from past railway activities. The missions will
include a social scientist and an environmental specialist in addition to the staff responsible for supervision
of sectoral or fiduciary aspects of the projects. In view of the existing capacity in the Bamako office which
was recently strengthened with the recruitment of an infrastructure specialist, in the subsequent years,
supervision will consist in one mission with the participation of the Washington staff and one mission of the
infrastructure staff accompanied by the fiduciary staff (financial management specialist, procurement
specialist) in the Bamako office.
Monitoring and Reporting The concessionaire will provide annual reports on railway operation
performance, including progress towards the project performance indicators and implementation of the
social and environmental action plan. The consultant responsible for organizing the payment of severance
pay to the staff of the railway company under the supervision of a committee produced a report after all
indemnities were paid. The report was furnished to IDA. The unit which will provide support to redundant
staff of the railway company will produce quarterly reports on its activities The concessionaire, the
Highway Department, the Road Agency after its creation, the Road Authority will provide quarterly reports
on project implementation, including implementation of environmental and social action plans. The reports
will be furnished to IDA not later than one month after the end of the quarter they are due. The October
report will include an updated procurement plan and disbursement forecasts for the year to come. The
project coordination unit will consolidate the annual and quarterly reports into an annual report which will
assess implementation performance and include progress toward the project performance indicators for all
the project components. The project coordination unit will also produce consolidated annual financial
statements. The annual reports identified above will be furnished to IDA not later than three months after
the end of the fiscal year.
The concessionaire, the Road Authority and the Road Agency after its creation will furnish to IDA their
annual financial statements and the financial audit reports. The project coordination unit will furnish a
technical audit of road and railway works executed under the project, including implementation of
environmental and social action plans related to the execution of the works, and a financial audit of the
project accounts including statements of expenditures. Technical and financial audits will be carried out by
independent auditors with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA. All technical and financial
audits will be furnished to IDA not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. The project



10
PID
coordination unit will also provide a separate financial audit of the severance pay not later than two months
after all indemnities have been paid.
Evaluation: A survey will be carried out to evaluate the impact of the social plan on the redundant staff
after the first, second and fifth years of project execution. The Concession Monitoring Committee will
furnish to IDA an audit of the terms of the concession including execution of the environmental plan not
later than six months after the third year of the concession. The National Department of Transport will
evaluate annually the share of traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor compared to the total of intemational
trade of Mali for six main products (cotton, cement and other construction materials, cereals, foodstuff,
chemical products and petroleum products) based on the traffic data for rail provided by the concessionaire
and the overall inemational traffic provided by the customs. An annual survey will be carried out by local
consultants to evaluate the impact of the road works on the prices of fruits and grains in Gao compared to
other regions. A customer satisfaction survey will be carried out annually to measure the satisfaction of
customers vis-a-vis the services provided by the railway concessionaire. The first survey will be carried out
in 2004 and will provide the baseline data based on which performance targets will be agreed. The Road
Data Base will carry out an annual survey to measure the condition of the roads between Bamako and Gao
and between Bamako and the borders of Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire. It will also measure annually the
travel time between Bamako and Gao. The other performance indicators will be provided in the reports
listes above and will be evaluated by the Project Coordination Unit in its annual report.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of road investments requires efficient management and sustainable financing of road
maintenance. The creation of the Road Fund provides the framework for sustainable financing by involving
road users in the decision-making process on the level of road maintenance resources necessary to execute
agreed road maintenance programs. The Letter of Sector Policy defines the amount of Govemment
resources to be allocated to road maintenance until 2007. The road maintenance budget will increase from
CFAF5.88 billion (US$10.5 million) in 2003 to CFAF 13 billion (US$23.6 million equivalent) in 2007.
This will allow to cover entirely routine maintenance on the primary network as targeted in the Letter of
Sector Policy. Continued budget increase after 2007 would cover progressively a larger share of periodic
maintenance mostly financed by extemal donors until now. Road user charges represent 14 percent of the
total road maintenance budget in 2003 and should increase progressively to 100 percent in 2011.
The Govemment has agreed to restructure the institutional framework for road maintenance management.
A new Road Agency will be created which will provide the incentive framework for efficient and
transparent management. The structure and responsibilities of the Road Agency are being designed with
support of the European Community. The Govemment is committed to make the Agency operational by
March 31, 2004 according to its Letter of Sector Policy and its agreement with European Community's
under its 9th European Development Fund (EDF). The Road Agency will be financed by the Road Fund.
Concessionning of railway activities to a private operator provides the framework for sustainable railway
investments and operations. The operator invests its own resources, which provides the incentive to use
efficiently these resources and to maintain the improved infrastructure. The concessioning process was
transparent and designed to select a highly qualified operator. The concession agreement provides the
framework to ensure that railway operations and management will be independent from Govemrnment
interference. The concession is granted for 30 years which is also a factor in favor of stability and
sustainability.
The risk that staff, once laid off, is rehired, is minimal. First, the concessionaire designated the staff to be
laid off. It is not a voluntary scheme. The criteria for the decision on who is to be laid off is based on who
add least value to the new railway company. The concessionaire will suffer a penalty if it decides to hire
staff who has been previously laid off as it will have to reimburse the retrenchment package to the
Government. This will be applied during a two-year period after staff is laid off. The period is not longer:



11
PID
(a) to reduce the possible impact of HIV/AIDS on the company's operations as well as the fact that the staff
is relatively old (47-year average) and to give the possibility to the concessionaire to hire staff with some
railway qualifications reducing the amount and the cost of training; and (b) to take into account the fact
that the experience shows that a low percentage only of staff which is laid off finds a new job. The
monitoring studies included in the social plan will document what happens to the laid-off workers.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Support of public railway company is neither effective nor sustainable. The experience of the Transport
Sector Project, and similar operations in Cameroon and C6te d'Ivoire, which focused on institutional
strengthening of public railway companies, did not result in significant improvement. This was due to
inefficient public sector management practices (lack of commercial orientation, Government interference in
management, inefficient procurement procedures, lack of accountability) and public services obligations not
compensated by the State, which proved to be major impediments to cost-effective operation of the railway.
On the other hand, concessionning of railway operations to a private operator has proved to be successful.
Such operations have been completed in Cameroon and Cote d'Ivoire and have dramatically improved the
performance of the new railway companies.
The Bank experience shows that in the case of railways with a low profitability, availability of donor
financing is key to the success of the concessioning process. Without donor financing, it makes it difficult
to interest bidders because of the financial risk associated to the operation. Donor financing however should
concentrate on the infrastructure as the long-term reimbursement period is more appropriate in view of the
long period of life of the infrastructure. Commercial lending is more expensive and needs to be reimbursed
on a short period of time (7-8 years) which makes it inappropriate for infrastructure but more appropriate
for financing of equipment.
Financing of redundancies needs to be accompanied by a social plan to mitigate their social impact. A
survey of railway staff declared redundant in 1995 and 1997 in Mali demonstrated that money is not
enough and that support needs to be provided to the staff during a transitory period until they are settled in
new activities.
The lessons from the ongoing Transport Sector Project (TSP) are the following:
(a) Country Absorptive Capacity: Projects should remain simple and adjusted to the country's absorptive
capacity for reforms and implementation. Too many demands for simultaneous reforms along with
implementation burdens tax the capacity of the govemment and implementing agency to deliver outputs on
schedule and achieve results.
(b) Project Design: Detailed engineering needs to be substantially completed before negotiations. The
absence of detailed engineering
prior to negociations for all major roads financed by the TSP resulted in variation of quantities during
execution, leading to delays and cost increases.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : An environmental impact assessment was carried out for the periodic maintenance works
on the two roads Bamako-Bougouni and Sevar&-Gao and for the railway operations managed by the
concessionaire. Each of the assessments included an Environment Mitigation Plan (EMP), the three EMPs
being then consolidated in the project's EMP.
The following safeguard issues have been identified:
(a) related to the execution of the railway works: Materials such as laterite and ballast will be used to
strengthen the railway track. Ballast will come from an existing quarry. Laterite will come from borrow
pits which will be identified by the engineering study of the works. Execution of the works may also impact
on the health of workers of villagers because of the dust of laterite. The presence of migrant workers may
also increase the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS. Consolidating the railway platform may require enlarging it



12
PID
by about 20 cm on one side or both sides of the track. The EMP of the works has not identified resettlement
issues that may result from occupation of right-of-way for residential, commercial and farming purposes or
from the extension of the ballast quarry if its existing capacity is insufficient and from the opening of
borrow pits for the laterite. No impact has also been identified on minor cultivations, trees and bushes,
buildings, commercial structures etc. along the track resulting from the widening of the railway platform.
(b) related to the execution of the road works on the road Bamako-Bougouni : An environmental impact
study of the periodic maintenance works on the road Bamako-Bougouni was carried out to evaluate 13
categories of impact and define mitigation measures when necessary:
(i) climate : Minimize clearing of land for works sites and restoration of areas threatened by
erosion.
(ii) vegetation : As the road is already paved, its maintenance will not improve accessibility to and
increase pressure on natural resources. The road does not cross any protected natural habitat. Vegetation
on embankments and trees at the entry of Bougouni will need to be protected during works execution.
(iii) wildlife : No particular impact has been identified as the project does not improve acessibility
to the area which his already very good.
(iv) erosion : No new excavation or new embankment will be created and no change in agricultural
areas is envisaged as the project involves only periodic maintenance of the existing road.
(v) water: Road safety measures implemented under the project will reduce the risk of accidental
pollution by hazardous products transported on the road. Continuous pollution of water has been not
identified based on consultation with populations along the road.
(vi) health : Inhabitants in some villages complained that superelevation of the road created ponds
attracting mosquitos. Borrowing pits may also be filled by water during the rainy season and attract
mosquitos. The presence of migrant workers may also increase the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS.
(vii) noise : The level of noise is not expected to increase after the project and will remain under 65
dB whihc is acceptable for the populations.
(viii) socio-economic : The impact of the project will be positive. New jobs will be created during
works execution.
(ix) agriculture : The longitudinal profile of the road will not be changed. No land will be acquired
for the project. No fruit tree will be cut.
(x) safety : A road safety audit defined measures to improve road safety. Measures include parking
areas for trucks in large villages, widening of the shoulders for bicycles and pedestrians, vertical and
horizontal signalling and other measures listed in the project description.
(xi) landscape: Some modification can result from borrow pits. Abandoned cars along the roads
also need to be removed.
(xii) air quality: The project is located mostly in non urbanized areas where pollution of air is
minimum. The project will not not have an impact.
(xiii) habitations : No need for resettlement has been identified. In case, resettlement is unavoidable
as a result of the civil works, the resettlement policy framework agreed during project preparation will be
applied.
The EIS defines also mitigation measures to be taken during works execution and related to (i)
accidental pollution from oil changes or other petroleum products; (ii) transport of construction materials;
(iii) drainage; (iv) restoration of borrow pits; (v) solid wastes; (vi) protection of trees and other vegetation;
and (vii) protection of wildlife.
The cost of the EMP including control and monitoring is estimated at about US$1.2 million
included in the project costs.
(c) related to the execution of the road works on the road Sevare-Gao : The impacts and measures
described above are also valid for the road Sevare-Gao. The EIS proposes recommendations which are
specific to the following issues specific to the road Sevare-Gao:
(i) Market gardening and cultivation of pluvial rice has developed along the road in areas where



13
PID
water is running from a superelevation.
(ii) 21 sites have been identified where habitations, restaurants, shops and mosquees are less than
10 meters from the road but they will not be touched by the works.
(iii) The Douentza reserve, an IUCN category IV protected area, stretches for about 200 km just
north of the road. The elephants of the Gourma live in the reserve. They constitute one of the largest
surviving elephant populations in this region of Africa.
(iv) 20 km of road at 14 different locations will need to be reconstructed. Most of this road
construction will take place in fluvial zones, where the road crosses rivers, creeks, wetlands. Of particular
concem are the ponds ("mares"), especially the "mare d'Agoufou".
The cost of the EMP including control and monitoring is estimated at US$0.66 million included in
the project costs.
(d) related to the concessioning of railway services: An environmental audit has been prepared which
includes an environmental and social management plan. The concessionaire agreement to the plan is a
condition for appraisal.
10. List of factual technical documents:
Feasibility study and detailed engineering design of periodic maintenance works on the road
Bamako-Bougouni (final, February 2003)
Environmental impact study of periodic maintenance works on the road Bamako-Bougouni (final report,
February 2003)
Road safety audit of the road Bamako-Bougouni (final report, April 2003)
Feasibility study and detailed engineering design of periodic maintenance works on the road Sevare-Gao
(draft, Januray 2003)
Environmental impact study of periodic maintenance works on the road Sevare-Gao (draft, January 2003)
Road safety audit of the road Sevare-Gao (final report, October 2003)
Environmental and social impact study of rehabilitation works on the Dakar-Bamako railway (final,
October 2003)
Definition of modalities for the creation and operation of the support unit to redundant staff of the railway
company (final, June 2002)
Economic analysis of the social and compensation plan for the railway company (draft, March 2003)
Economic analysis of the investment plan of the railway company (final, April 2003)
Survey of prices of cereals and fruits along the Bamako-Gao road (
Survey of vehicle speed on the roads Bamako-Bougouni and Sevare-Gao (June 2003)
Environmental audit of the railway concession (under preparation)
Investment program and business plan of the railway concessionaire (under preparation)
Environmental and social management plan (under preparation)
Social and compensation management plan (final, July 2003)
Resettlement policy framework (under preparation)
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jean-Noel Guillossou
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473.49.43
Fax: (202) 473.80.38



14
PID
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:l/ www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



