Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC528
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/24/2003
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.I. Project Statistics
Country: MALI                                     Project ID: P079351
Project: TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT          Task Team Leader: Jean-Noel Guillossou
PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 22, 2003    IBRD Amount (Sm):
Bank Approval: February 19, 2004                  IDA Amount ($m): 33.20
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE: 15.5
Managing Unit: AFTTR                               Sector: Railways (50%); Roads and highways (50%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector
Status: Lending                                   development (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objectives of the project are to (a) improve alternative corridors to the ports of Dakar and Abidjan by
rail and road respectively; and (b) sustain accessibility to the Northern region of Mali, one of the poorest
region in the country.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
In support of the above objectives, and as a follow-up of the reforms achieved under the Transport Sector
Project, the proposed project seeks to: (a) support the concessionning of railway services between Dakar
and Bamako, including financing of redundancies and necessary upgrading of the rail infrastructure; and
(b) rehabilitate the road infrastructure and secure an all-year satisfactory level of service along the road
Bamako-borders of C6te d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso and the road Bamako-Gao which links the Extreme
North of Mali to the rest of the country.
The proposed operation will include three components.
Sub-component Al : Social and compensation plan. The sub-component will support implementation of
the social and compensation plan to mitigate the impact of the concessioning of rail services to a private
operator on staff declared redundant. The plan includes the following activities: (a) financing of severance
payment; (b) technical advisory services in and operating costs of the unit created to provide support to
redundant staff in evaluating training needs, finding a new job, preparing personal business projects; (c)
measures aimed at facilitating reinsertion of redundant staff; and (d) technical advisory services to monitor
the social impact of redundancies during and after the period of implementation of the social and
compensation plan.
Severance packages were paid in October 2003. Eligible expenditures confirmed by an audit report will be
financed retroactively by the proposed project as approved by Bank management in June 2003.
Sub-Component A2 : Infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization. The sub-component will support
rehabilitation of the most deteriorated sections of the railway track between Bamako and the Senegalese
border. The sections to be maintained will be defined by the private concessionnaire of the railway



2
ISDS
company. The activities in the sub-component are : (a) procurement of inputs (rail, sleepers, ballast) to
rehabilitation works ; (b) measures to mitigate the environmental and social impact of the rehabilitation
works and past degradations prior to the concession ; and (d) technical advisory services for
implementation and monitoring of the railway component of the social and environmental mitigation plan of
the project.
Sub-Component A3: Institutional support. The sub-component includes technical advisory services for the
first audit of the railway concession scheduled during the third year of the concession in the concession
agreement, and support to the committee appointed to monitor implementation of the concession and
compliance with the concession agreement.
Component B : Road maintenance component.
Sub-component B] : Periodic maintenance of road network. The sub-component will include : (a) periodic
maintenance of: (i) the 154 km section of the road between Bamako and Bougouni, which is part of the
road linking Bamako, the capital city of Mali, to the ports on the West African Coast (Abidjan in C6te
d'lvoire, Tema in Ghana, and Lome in Togo) ; and (ii) the 558 km section of the road between Sevare and
Gao, which is part of the only road giving access from Bamako to the Extreme North of Mali; (b) technical
advisory services for supervision of works; and (c) measures to protect environment, to improve road safety
and to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS resulting from the presence of civil works contractors in the
villages along both roads. HIV/AIDS activities will include sehsitization campaigns in parallel to the road
works and railway operations to prepare the sector stakeholders to participate fully in the HIV/AIDS MAP
project under preparation by the Bank. Road safety activities include equipment for road safety databank,
adaptation of driving course teaching and exam documents to local context and language, supply of one
second-hand articulated truck for driving courses, study to improve both formal and informal teaching of
driving awareness building and road safety campaigns, vertical and horizontal signaling, parking areas in
the villages, and access to the customs area at the entry of Bamako.
Given the social importance of the Sevar&-Gao road as it keeps open the access to one of the poorest region
of Mali, the civil works on the road will be financed with the IDA grant.
Sub-component B2: Institutional support. The sub-component will include (a) technical advisory services
for impact monitoring; (b) technical advisory services, equipment and training to support implementation of
road sector reforms and strengthening of the local road construction industry; (c) environmental and social
impact assessment of road maintenance, strengthening of the capacity of the Road Agency to implement
environmental and social mitigation action plans.
Component C: Project management: The component includes : (a) technical audit of the works carried
out and the goods provided in components A and B (review of procurement procedure, quality of works,
compliance with contracts); (b) technical advisory services for fiduciary aspects of project coordination
(financial management specialist, accountant); (c) financial audit of project accounts; and (d) operating
costs of the project coordination unit.
Components:
A. Rail Component
Al. Social and Compensation Plan  US$13.6 million
A2. Rehabilitation of Railway Track  US$43.1 million
B. Road Maintenance Component      US$48.9 million
C. Project management              US$0.8 million



3
ISDS
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The location of railway works will be decided by the concessionaire. Priority areas identified by the former
public railway company are located in the Kayes region near the border of Senegal (towns of Maina and
Diamou) and near Bamako. The areas are characterized by rocky hills, certain peaks reaching 400 meters.
The vegetation is of the sub-Saharan savannah type, predominantly acacia trees and shrubs around the
Diamou location. Access to the areas is easiest by train and most difficult via unpaved pathways, which
are difficult during the rainy season. The rainfall is good and temperatures can reach above 40 degree
Celsius in the dry season. The towns of Maina and Diamou are located near the rail stations and all safety
precautions are implemented for the protection of the adjacent riverine communities. With regard to the
social characteristics, it is important to underscore that the inhabitants of this region are traditionally
conservative and depend on agriculture, livestock and fishing for their livelihoods. Agricultural products
such as mango, tomatoes, oranges and other perishable goods are major economic activities in this region.
The train is the principal means of transport for people and goods in this region. Traditional activities such
as blacksmith, weaving, pottery, wooden and leather handicraft constitute a limited source of income for
the villagers. These are jobs traditionally performed by different castes. All these are economic activities
that rely on the railway as a principal means of transport, and use the train stations as a market place
(outlets for local products and distribution centers of incoming products). As a result, a breakdown in the
railway traffic or an inefficient railway system have serious economic implications for the communities and
businesses and result in shortages of goods, food supplies from Bamako to the towns and villages. The
breakdown of the bridge of Bagouko is a perfect example of the above problem and how it can affect
people's livelihood and survival.
The road works are located on the Bamako-Bougouni and the Mopti-Gao roads. Both roads are already
paved. The Bamako-Bougouni road is located in the cotton area of Mali and is heavily trafficked (more
than 2000 vehicles per day on the section closest to Bamako and 600 vehicles per day on the other
sections). It crosses several villages where there is a risk of accidents with road users, mostly pedestrians.
Currently, traffic is already slowed down in most villages by speed reducers. The Mopti-Gao road crosses
mostly little populated areas but is key to establish a link with the Extreme-North of Mali. The feeling of
exclusion from the economic life of the rest of Mali was one of the cause of the conflict with rebels in the
1990s.
618 staff of the former railway company were laid off. Basic data to characterize the staff are being
analyzed (genre, age, marital status) to be entered in the data base for the monitoring of the impact of the
social and compensation plan.
B. Check Environ m ental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The Environmental and Social analysis carried out during project preparation did not identify
major negative environmental and social impacts related to the road and railway works. The project is
therefore classified as a B category.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on W for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy                                 Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)               * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes * No



4
ISDS
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*    0 Yes * No
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessaty data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and himpacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The following safeguard issues have been identified:
(a) related to the execution of the railway works: Materials such as laterite and ballast will be used to
strengthen the railway track. Ballast will come from an existing quany. Laterite will come from borrow
pits which will be identified by the engineering study of the works. Execution of the works may also impact
on the health of workers of villagers because of the dust of laterite. The presence of migrant workers may
also increase the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS. Consolidating the railway platform may require enlarging it
by about 20 cm on one side or both sides of the track. The EMP of the priority works defined by the former
public railway company did not identify resettlement issues that may result from occupation of
right-of-way for residential, commercial and farming purposes or from the extension of the ballast quarry if
its existing capacity is insufficient and from the opening of borrow pits for the laterite. No impact has also
been identified on minor cultivations, trees and bushes, buildings, commercial structures etc. along the
track resulting from the widening of the railway platform.
(b) related to the execution of the road works on the road Bamako-Bougouni : An environmental impact
study of the periodic maintenance works on the road Bamako-Bougouni was carried out to evaluate 13
categories of impact and define mitigation measures when necessary:
(i) climate : Minimize clearing of land for works sites and restoration of areas threatened by
erosion.
(ii) vegetation : As the road is already paved, its maintenance will not improve accessibility to and
increase pressure on natural resources. The road does not cross any protected natural habitat. Vegetation
on embankments and trees at the entry of Bougouni will need to be protected during works execution.
(iii) wildlife: No particular impact has been identified as the project does not improve acessibility
to the area which his already very good.
(iv) erosion: No new excavation or new embankment will be created and no change in agricultural
areas is envisaged as the project involves only periodic maintenance of the existing road.
(v) water: Road safety measures implemented under the project will reduce the risk of accidental
pollution by hazardous products transported on the road. Continuous pollution of water has been not
identified based on consultation with populations along the road.
(vi) health : Inhabitants in some villages complained that superelevation of the road created ponds
attracting mosquitos. Borrowing pits may also be filled by water during the rainy season and attract
mosquitos. The presence of migrant workers may also increase the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS.
(vii) noise : The level of noise is not expected to increase after the project and will remain under 65
dB whihc is acceptable for the populations.
(viii) socio-economic: The impact of the project will be positive. New jobs will be created during
works execution.



5
ISDS
(ix) agriculture : The longitudinal profile of the road will not be changed. No land will be acquired
for the project. No fruit tree will be cut.
(x) safety : A road safety audit defined measures to improve road safety. Measures include parking
areas for trucks in large villages, widening of the shoulders for bicycles and pedestrians, vertical and
horizontal signalling and other measures listed in the project description.
(xi) landscape: Some modification can result from borrow pits. Abandoned cars along the roads
also need to be removed.
(xii) air quality : The project is located mostly in non urbanized areas where pollution of air is
minimum. The project will not not have an impact.
(xiii) habitations : No need for resettlement has been identified. In case, resettlement is unavoidable
as a result of the civil works, the resettlement policy framework agreed during project preparation will be
applied.
The EIS defines also mitigation measures to be taken during works execution and related to (i)
accidental pollution from oil changes or other petroleum products; (ii) transport of construction materials;
(iii) drainage; (iv) restoration of borrow pits; (v) solid wastes; (vi) protection of trees and other vegetation;
and (vii) protection of wildlife.
The cost of the EMP including control and monitoring is estimated at about US$1.2 million
included in the project costs.
(c) related to the execution of the road works on the road Sevar&-Gao : The impacts and measures
described above are also valid for the road Sevar&Gao. The EIS proposes recommendations which are
specific to the following issues specific to the road Sevare-Gao:
(i) Market gardening and cultivation of pluvial rice has developed along the road in areas where
water is running from a superelevation.
(ii) 21 sites have been identified where habitations, restaurants, shops and mosquees are less than
10 meters from the road but they will not be touched by the works.
(iii) The Douentza reserve, an IUCN category IV protected area, stretches for about 200 km just
north of the road. The elephants of the Gourma live in the reserve. They constitute one of the largest
surviving elephant populations in this region of Africa.
(iv) 20 km of road at 14 different locations will need to be reconstructed. Most of this road
construction will take place in fluvial zones, where the road crosses rivers, creeks, wetlands. Of particular
concem are the ponds ("mares"), especially the "mare d'Agoufou".
The cost of the EMP including control and monitoring is estimated at US$0.66 million included in
the project costs.
(d) related to the concessioning of railway services: An environmental audit has been prepared which
includes an environmental and social management plan. The concessionaire agreement to the plan is a
condition for appraisal.
II.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
There are no key compliance issues arising out of safeguard policies applicable to the project. Project funds



6
ISDS
include the resources necessary to implement the project social and environmental action plan including
control during and monitoring after implementation.
The EIA have not identified resettlement needs. A Resettlement Policy Framework is being prepared and
will be used during project implementation in case need for resettlement is identified at the time of works
execution.
The Road Agency is not created yet. A strategic environmental study will be carried out under the proposed
project to provide the framework for sound environmental management of road maintenance. The study will
also evaluate the needs for capacity strengthening of the Agency in environmental management.
An environmental and social expert will be recruited in the Transport Sector Project Unit during the period
of project execution. S/he will receive support from an intemational environmental and social specialist
who will carry out short-term missions to Bamako. The expert in the TSPU will be recruited before
effectiveness. S/he will monitor compliance with the Environmental and Social Management Plan prepared
for the project and provide assistance to and help build capacity in the executing agencies.
A Monitoring unit was created to monitor compliance of the Government and the concessionaire with the
concession agreement, including environmental and social aspects. The environmental and social expert in
the TSPU will provide support to the unit.
An association was created to provide support to staff of the railway company declared redundant. The
association receives support from the on-going Transport Sector Project until its closing date and from the
Interim Transport Project thereafter.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The EA reports for the works on the roads Bamako-Bougouni and Sevare-Gao were made available at the
regional representations of the Department of Highways in Mali. Their availability, the place and the time
to consult the documents were advertised in local newspapers. The reports were also made available at the
Bank's Infoshop before appraisal.
Similarly, the EA report on railway operations was made available to the public in Mali and at the Bank's
Infoshop before appraisal.
The environmental audit of the railway concession is being finalized. Comments were sent on the draft
report. The audit will be disclosed locally and published at Infoshop before appraisal.
An environmental and social management plan is being prepared. It will consolidate recommendations of he
previous documents. It will be disclosed locally and published at Infoshop before appraisal.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
EnvironmentalAssessment/Analysis/Managem?ientPlan:           Expected      Actual.|



7
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank                                12/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            12/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             12/30/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                12/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            12/30/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                             12/30/2003
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Managenment Plan:                               Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above. documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                       Date
Task Team Leader:             Jean-Noel Guillossou                       12/24/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Yvette Monga/Person/World Bank        12/24/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                 Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                        12/24/2003
Sector Manager/Director      C. Sanjivi Rajasingham                      12/24/2003



