Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3869 MLI 
GRANT NUMBER H075 MLI 
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Transport Corridors Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   March 18, 2004 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3869 MLI 
GRANT NUMBER H075 MLI 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 18 2004, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
February 11, 2004, describing a program of objectives and actions designed to improve 
the transport sector of the Borrower (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requested assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project;  
(C) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Development 
Bank (AfDB),  the 
Agence Française de Développement
 (AFD), the West African 
Development Bank (BOAD) and other donors (hereafter cumulatively referred to as 
Donors) loans or grants, as the case may be, in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
approximately forty-three million US Dollars ($43,000,000), to assist in the financing of 
the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective loan or grant agreements 
(the Co-financing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and each of the 
Donors; 
 
(D) 
Part B of the Project will be carried out by TRANSRAIL S.A.  
(TRANSRAIL) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make part of the proceeds of the Financing provided for in this Agreement 
(the Financing) available to TRANSRAIL as set forth in this Agreement;  
and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and 
TRANSRAIL (the Project Agreement); 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Financing 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“AGEROUTE” means the agency of the Borrower to be established in 
the course of Project implementation and to be responsible, as contractor, for 
management of road maintenance works; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means the recipient of a Severance Payment (as hereafter 
defined) pursuant to the SCAP (as hereafter defined); 
(c) “CARCHEM” 
means 
Cellule d’Appui à la Réinsertion des Cheminots, 
the Unit in charge of provision of assistance to the Beneficiaries of said payments 
pursuant to the SCAP (as hereafter defined), established pursuant to a Certificate of 
Business Registration issued by the Ministry for Administration and Decentralized 
Government Authorities;
“
(d) 
“Concessionaire” means TRANSRAIL (as hereinafter defined); 
(e) 
“The Concession” means the operation of railway activities along the 
railway link between Dakar, Senegal and Bamako, Mali pursuant to the regulations defined 
in the Concession Agreement (as hereafter defined); 
(f) 
“Concession Agreement” means the Agreement dated September 23, 2003 
between the Borrower, the Republic of Senegal and the Concessionaire, setting forth the 
rules and regulations governing the carrying out of the Concession; 
(g) 
“The Concession Date” means September 23, 2003; 
(h) “CSC” 
means 
Comité de Suivi de la Concession, 
the Concession 
Monitoring Committee to be established following a joint decision of the Borrower’s 
Minister of Equipment and Transport and the Minister of Infrastructure, Equipment and  
Transport of the Republic of Senegal; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
“DNR” means 
Direction Nationale des Routes
,
the National Directorate 
in charge of road maintenance in MET (as hereafter defined); 
(j) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Environmental Audit” means the environmental audit of the concession 
of railway services between Bamako and Dakar to be carried out during Project 
implementation; 
(l) 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the 
Borrower’s document dated January 19, 2003 containing the set of mitigation, 
enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures that have been identified by the 
Borrower to eliminate, offset, or reduce any adverse environmental and social impacts 
related to Project activities, or to enhance positive impacts; 
(m) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union (as hereafter 
defined); 
(n) 
"European Union”, means the European Union having adopted as single 
currency the Euro, in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, 
as amended by the Treaty on European Union; 
(o) 
“Financial and Administrative Procedures Manual” or “FAPM” means 
the manual referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement containing, 
inter 
alia
,
financial and administrative procedures to be used under the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to said Financial and Administrative Procedures Manual; 
(p) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement and the Project Agreement; 
(q) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower and the 
Concessionaire, commencing January 1 and ending December 31 in the same year; 
(r) “FCFA” 
means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the 
currency of the Borrower; 
(s) 
“IAPSO” means the United Nations Procurement Agency; 
(t) 
“IEC” means information, education and communication campaigns; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(u) 
“MDT” means 
Ministère délégué auprès du Ministère de l’Equipement et 
des Transports, chargé des Transports
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport in charge of 
supervising the Concession (as hereafter defined); 
(v) “MET” 
means 
Ministère de l’Equipement et des Transports, 
the 
Borrower’s Ministry for Equipement and Transport; 
(w) “MEF” 
means 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
,
the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
(x) 
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(y) 
"Project Implementation Manual" and “PIM” mean the 
Manuel de Mise 
en Oeuvre
 referred to in Section 6.01 and paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 of this Agreement 
containing, 
inter alia
,
procedures to be used for the purpose of implementing the Project, 
including a Project implementation plan, eligibility criteria of Beneficiaries for the 
distribution of Grants, monitoring and performance indicators, the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework, and other technical, 
administrative, and organizational procedures, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the approval of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to said 
Project Implementation Manual; 
(z) “RCFM” 
means 
Régie des Chemins de Fer du Mali,
 the Borrower’s 
railway company; 
(aa) 
“Road Authority” means an entity to be created under the Project in 
charge of administering the funds dedicated for road maintenance pursuant to the 
Borrower’s law No. 51 dated August
 
4,
2000; 
(bb) 
 “Severance Payments” means payments made to staff made redundant 
as a result of restructuring and concessioning of railways services between Bamako and 
Dakar paid under Part A 1. of the Project; 
(cc) 
“SCAP” or Social Compensation Plans” means the protocol agreed upon 
between the 
Régie des Chemins de Fer du Mali
 and the unions representing its personnel, 
dated July 30, 2003, outlining the Beneficiaries of Severance Payments; 
(dd) 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement means the agreement set forth in 
Section 3.01 (d) A of this Agreement; 
(ee) 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement means the agreement set forth in 
 
Section 3.01 (d) B of this Agreement; 
(ff) 
“Special Accounts” means the special deposit accounts opened for 
withdrawals by the Borrower and TRANSRAIL in respect of expenditures made under 
Page  6
-
5
-
the Project and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and the singular and the 
plural may be used interchangeably; 
(gg) 
“Transport Observatory” means an entity established by the Borrower 
under its laws to monitor Project performance; 
(hh) 
 
“Transport Sector Project Unit” and “TSPU” means the entity 
established in accordance with Regulation No. 95-175/PM-RM of the Borrower, dated 
April 24, 1995, in charge of Project coordination; and 
(ii) 
“TRANSRAIL” means TRANSRAIL S.A., a commercial company 
established on September 23, 2003 and operating under the laws of the Borrower.  
ARTICLE II 
The Financing 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to:  
 
(a)  
lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in this Agreement an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200, 000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b)  
make available to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million 
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,800,000) (the Grant). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Financing may be withdrawn from the 
Financing Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) on account 
of withdrawals made for the purposes of a Grant to meet the reasonable cost required for 
Severance Payments pursuant to Part A of the Project in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association 
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services 
required for all Parts of the Project with the exception of Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Grant. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA three special deposit accounts: the first in the name of TSPU for the purpose of 
Parts A, B.4, B.5, C.1 (a), and D of the Project (TSPU Special Account A), the second in 
the name of TSPU for the purpose of Part C.1 (b) of the Project (TSPU Special  
Account B), and the third in the name of TRANSRAIL for the purpose of Part B.1, B.2 
and B.3 of the Project (TRANSRAIL Special Account), all three in commercial banks on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
Page  7
-
6
-
against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Financing not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Financing Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate 
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2014 and ending February 15, 2044. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2024 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Page  8
-
7
-
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower worthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Financing shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Financing as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Financing withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the European Union is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09  The President of TRANSRAIL is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions in respect of Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A, B.4, B.5, C and D of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for Parts A, B.4, B.5, C and D of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out Parts A, B.4, B.5, C and D of the Project in accordance with the implementation 
program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under the 
Development Financing Agreement, the Borrower shall cause TRANSRAIL to carry out 
Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, and technical practices, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement, and the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and the obligations of TRANSRAIL therein set forth; shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable TRANSRAIL to perform such 
obligations;  and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(d)  
The Borrower shall  
(A) 
make available to TRANSRAIL on a non-reimbursable basis out 
of the proceeds of the Credit the amounts allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) (ii) of the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement under an agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and TRANSRAIL (the 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement) under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, in an amount not exceeding  
four hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
equivalent (SDR 450,000); 
Page  10
-
9
-
(B) 
on lend to TRANSRAIL the proceeds of the Credit from time to 
time allocated to Category (2) (a) (i) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under an agreement 
(the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) in an amount not exceeding 
two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
equivalent (SDR 2,800,000),
 
to be entered between the Borrower 
and TRANSRAIL under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, including provisions 
requiring: (aa)  repayment of the principal in semi-annual 
installments over twenty years, including five years of grace on 
the principal amount; (bb) payment of interest at a rate of four 
percent per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time; and (cc) the costs of fluctuations 
in the currencies on-lent under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
to be borne equally by the Borrower and TRANSRAIL. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any of the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of works, goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
TRANSRAIL in respect of Part B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project pursuant to Section 2.03 
of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
(b) 
promptly thereafter, deposit into the Project Account an amount of 
FCFA 88,000,000 (eighty-eight million FCFA) to finance the Borrower's initial 
contribution to the Project; 
 
(c) 
deposit into the Project Account, in quarterly installments, until 
Completion Date, such amounts as shall be required to timely replenish the 
Project Account to finance the Borrower’s subsequent contribution to the Project; 
and 
 
(d) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Credit 
or the Grant. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial and Other Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards in a format acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
Parts A, B.4, B.5, C and D of the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
commencing with the FY in which the Effectiveness Date falls to 
and including the FY in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is made, have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year or other period agreed upon by the Association, audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year or other 
period agreed upon by the Association, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year or other period agreed upon by the 
Association as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements 
and a report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the FY in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts concerning the statements 
of expenditures are included in the annual audit referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit for 
each FY or other period agreed upon by the Association contains 
a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of expenditure submitted during such FY or other period agreed 
upon by the Association, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, and the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations set out in 
 
paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned implementation targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out; and 
(b) 
TRANSRAIL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
(A)  
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the respective Co-financing Agreement providing 
therefore; or 
(B)  
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Association to the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Financing Agreement within the meaning of 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower and the Concessionaire have appointed the consultant to 
be charged with preparation of the PIM. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower has
 
established the Project Account and deposited therein 
the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement have been signed and executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
TRANSRAIL.  
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by TRANSRAIL, 
and is legally binding upon TRANSRAIL in accordance with its terms; and 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
have been duly authorized by the Borrower and TRANSRAIL and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and TRANSRAIL in accordance with their terms;  
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided for in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the 
Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for financing is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
BP 234 
 
Bamako 
 
Republic of Mali 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(223) 222 88 53 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By 
/s/ Bassary Touré 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ David Craig 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Financing to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
 
      
 76% 
 
 
(a) Part B.2 
310,000 
 
(b)  Part C.1 (b) 
 
9,100,000 
 
(c)  Part C.1 (a) 
8,300,000 
 
(2) Goods 
 
 
100% 
of 
foreign 
expenditures 
and 80% of 
local 
expenditures 
 
(a) Part B 
 
(i) Part B.1 
2,400,000 
 
(ii) Part B.2 
90,000 
 
(b) Part C 
150,000 
 
(3) 
 
Consultants’  
2,400,000 
 
80% 
 
services, audits 
 
(4) Training, 
seminars 
120,000 
 
and workshops 
 
      
100% 
 
(5) 
Severance                  6,700,000 
 payments  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     100% 
Page  19
-
18 - 
 
under Part A.1 
 
of 
expenditures 
incurred 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(6) 
Operating Costs 
330,000 
 
80 % 
 
(7)  
Unallocated 
1,400,000 
1,700,000 
 
__________          __________ 
 
TOTAL                     22,200,000            10,800,000  
 
 
=========           ========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
 
(c) 
the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility 
services, travel and supervision costs, salaries, benefits and training of contractual 
staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 6,700,000 may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 30, 2003. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3), 
(4), (5), and (6) until the Borrower has reimbursed the Association amounts outstanding 
under Credit Numbers 021 MLI and 3318 MLI in the order of FCFA 30,771,517 and  
FCFA 100,000,000, respectively. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), 
(2) (b), (3), (4), and (6) until the Borrower has: (i) adopted and furnished to the 
Association the FAPM and PIM, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association; (ii) appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, for the purposes of said Section, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (iii) established a computerized 
accounting and financial management system in TSPU, acceptable to the 
Association; and (iv) appointed to the TSPU: (a) a chief financial officer, (b) an 
accountant, and (c) an environmental and social expert, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
6. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawal shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) 
until the Concessionaire has appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, for the purposes of said Section, and CSC has been established in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
7. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Financing Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under 
contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each; for (ii) goods under contracts 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent each, (iii) for expenditures for services under 
contracts with firms costing less than $100,000 or with individuals costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each, and (iv) for small equipment supply and office supply contracts, 
and training; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  21
-
20 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to (a) enhance international transport through 
improvement of transport corridors linking Mali to the coastal countries of West Africa 
by rail and road, respectively, and (b) sustain accessibility of the northern regions of the 
Borrower’s territories.  
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Severance Payments and Social Support 
1. 
Financing of Severance Payments supporting staff made redundant as a result of 
the restructuring and concessioning of railway services between Dakar and Bamako. 
2. 
Support to redundant RCFM staff in: (i) establishing economically viable 
activities and (ii) mitigating adverse social impacts through the provision of training and 
technical advisory services through CARCHEM. 
Part B
:
Rehabilitation of Rail Infrastructure and Equipment
1. 
 Acquisition of equipment and materials for the rehabilitation of rolling stock 
used for rail freight services between Bamako and Dakar and for the rehabilitation of 
deteriorated railway tracks between Bamako and the Senegalese border.   
2. 
Carrying out works, acquisition of equipment and materials and provision of 
technical advisory services to mitigate environmental degradation resulting from railway 
operations prior
to the Concession Date. 
3. 
Carrying out works, acquisition of equipment and materials and provision of 
technical advisory services to mitigate environmental degradation resulting from railway 
operations after
the Concession Date. 
4. 
Monitoring of the carrying out of the ESMP through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
5. 
Carrying out a technical and financial audit of the Concessionaire’s and the 
Borrower’s compliance with the Concession Agreement
 
through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
 
Page  22
-
21 - 
 
Part C
:
Road Rehabilitation
1. 
Carrying out of, and provision of technical advisory services for, periodic 
maintenance of road works, including implementation of environmental and social 
mitigation and road safety measures described in the ESMP as related to such activities:  
(a) 
Bamako - Bougouni on the length of approximately 154 km; and 
(b) 
Sévaré – Gao on the length of approximately 407 km. 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services to selected road working crews and 
neighboring villagers of the roads referred to under paragraph 1 of this Part C in 
environmental and social impact mitigation measures and road safety measures. 
3. 
Provision of training and IEC to selected road working crews and neighboring 
villagers of the roads referred to under paragraph 1. of this Part C on the risks of 
HIV/AIDS infection. 
4. 
Provision of training and technical advisory services to 
Service des Données 
Routières
 of MET in support of the carrying out of the Borrower’s reform of road 
maintenance management and the carrying out of social and environmental impact 
assessments, preparation of mitigating measures and action plans as per the ESMP, and 
the acquisition of equipment. 
Part D
:
Project Management and Supervision
1. 
Administration, coordination, financial and technical monitoring, supervision and 
evaluation of Project implementation, through the provision of technical advisory 
services and training programs for selected staff in TSPU and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
2. 
Acquisition of equipment to the Transport Observatory for the monitoring 
of indicators to measure the performance of the project. 
3. 
Carrying out technical and financial audits of activities under Part B and Part C of 
the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of works and Goods
Part A
:
General
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Financings” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
1. 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
2. Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods, shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods, other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, and works 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23 - 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods, other than vehicles, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement through International Agencies
Office equipment estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract and vehicles may be procured from IAPSO. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
With respect to an amendment to each contract for works raising its value above 
the $500,000 threshold and an amendment to each contract for goods raising its value 
above the $250,000 threshold, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  25
-
24 - 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002, (the Consultant Guidelines), 
and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for:  (a) research activities and activities requiring specialized expertise, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and (b) training under Part B 
of the Project, estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, all may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the provision of training which are estimated to cost less than 
$15,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants, and estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract for consultant firms, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of
 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines
.
Page  26
-
25 - 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for individual consultants: (a) meeting the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, and (b) employed under contracts concluded 
with TPSU, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2, 3, and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for training, workshops, conference 
attendance and study tours, the Bank’s non-objection to the annual activity- and 
procurement program shall be deemed approval of said activity. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
The exception to post review in the preceding paragraph does not apply to the 
terms of reference for such contracts, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical 
nature as determined by the Borrower and the Association, or to amendments to contracts 
raising their value above the US$100,000 equivalent threshold for consultant firms and 
the US$50,000 equivalent threshold for individual consultants. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
 
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Section I.
General
1. 
The Borrower shall implement Parts A, B.4, B.5, C and D of the Project in 
accordance with the procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not amend, or waive any provision of said Manual if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of Parts A, B.4, B.5, C and D of the Project. 
Section II
.
Management, Reviews and Reporting
2. 
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, without limitation to the Borrower’s 
obligations under Section 4.02 of this Agreement, through TSPU: 
 
(a) 
not later than one month after the end of each calendar year quarter the 
quarterly reports on implementation of the Project, including references to the carrying out 
of the actions pursuant to the ESMP, prepared by, respectively: (i) DNR; (ii) AGEROUTE; 
and (iii) TRANSRAIL. The third quarter report shall contain an updated procurement plan 
for the next FY as well as a disbursement forecast. 
 
(b)  
not later than six months after the end of any FY, the last being  the FY of 
the Closing Date:  (A) the annual audited financial statements of the Concessionaire and the 
AGEROUTE; (B) the technical audit of works under Parts B and C of the Project, 
including audits of the environmental and social action plans related to the execution of 
said works. 
 
(b)   
not later than two months following the last payment of Severance 
Payments a financial audit on said payments. 
 
(c)  
not later than six months following the third year of the 
Concession an audit, initiated and supervised by CSC, of the terms of the 
Concession, including the carrying out of the respective environmental plan 
pursuant to the ESMP. 
Monthly Review
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association through TSPU, monthly until the completion of 
the Project, for the first time by the fifteenth day of the second month following the 
Effectiveness Date, or such other date as the Association shall agree, for its review and 
Page  28
-
27 - 
 
comments, (A) a bank reconciliation statement; (B) a statement of cash position;  
(C) a statement of expenditures; and (D) a statement of sources and uses of funds. 
Annual Review
4. The 
Borrower 
shall 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual and summarized in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
(i) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association through TSPU, 
annually until the completion of the Project, for the first time by 
April 30, 2005, or such other date as the Association shall agree, 
for its review and comments, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 4, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the fiscal year preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following 
such date.  
(ii) 
In particular the report shall comprise detailed information on, and 
comments upon: (A)  the updated procurement plan for the on-
going fiscal year; (B) progress made towards the feasibility to 
transfer procurement under Part C of the Project from DNR onto 
the AGEROUTE; (C) the carrying out of SCAP by CARCHEM; 
(D) the compliance with the regulations set forth in ESMP by the 
Borrower and TRANSRAIL; (E) the annual audited financial 
statements of the Concessionaire, and the AGEROUTE, if 
available at the time of furnishing the report; and (F) the technical 
audit of works under Parts B and C of the Project, including audits 
of the environmental and social action plans related to the 
execution of said works, if available at the time of furnishing the 
report;  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, within four weeks following the submission of 
the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, said report (Annual Review), 
and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report, the Association’s views on the matter and in accordance 
with the PIM. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
 
MidTerm Review
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
By June 30, 2006, or such other date as the Association shall agree upon, 
carry out jointly with the Association, a midterm review (Midterm Review). The 
Borrower shall invit
e
CSC and it’s other agencies active in the transport sector to 
participate, and take all actions it considers necessary to ensure the participation of the 
management of TRANSRAIL and representatives of the AGEROUTE, the Road 
Authority, CARCHEM, and private sector transporters, importers and exporters in such 
Midterm Review. Such Midterm Review shall cover the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project under an agenda encompassing the agenda of the Annual 
Reviews, and, more specifically, the achievements under Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
No later than May 31, 2006, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association, through TSPU, for its review and comments, a midterm assessment, 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the implementation 
of the Project, including the issues raised at the Annual Reviews, and in 
particular, but not limited to: (i) Project implementation status and use of credit 
resources; (ii) performance indicators as said forth in the PIM and summarized in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; (iii) progress in the carrying out of the ESMP; and 
(iv) a draft action plan including revised disbursements and updated procurement 
plan covering the period through Project Completion Date. 
 
(c) 
Following such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall act promptly and 
diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary by the Association to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such 
other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association 
in furtherance of the objectives of the Project and in accordance with the PIM. 
Section III
.
Individual Covenants
6.
 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
appoint within TSPU the following management team with qualifications 
and experience, satisfactory to the Association, with qualified support staff in sufficient 
numbers at a date, before three months following Effectiveness Date, and maintain said 
management team until the Closing Date in conformity with Regulation No. 95-175/PM-
RM of the Borrower, dated April 24, 1995: (i) the Project coordinator, (ii) the deputy 
Project coordinator, (iii) an administrative and financial management specialist; 
 
(iv) a social and environmental specialist; and (v) an assistant accountant. The TSPU shall 
be responsible for the overall coordination, supervision, monitoring of implementation of 
Project activities; and 
Page  30
-
29 - 
 
(b) 
maintain CSC in conformity with the nominations and procedures set forth 
in the joint decision establishing said 
Comité
 until the Closing Date.  Said CSC shall 
monitor railway activities between Bamako and Dakar pursuant to the terms of the 
Concession Agreement and the 
Concessionaire’s
 investment program set forth therein, and 
coordinate and mediate between all parties concerned. 
7. 
The Borrower shall cause TSPU to enter into an agreement with CARCHEM 
satisfactory to the Association, by the date one month following the Effectiveness Date, 
setting forth a regular payment mechanism to satisfy CARCHEM’s liquidity needs based 
on a 20% cash reserve pursuant to quarterly budget forecasts. 
Section IV
.
Criteria for the Distribution of Severance Payments
8.  
The proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (5) of the table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have been made available to 
Beneficiaries under a non-reimbursable basis pursuant to the SCAP. 
Section V
.
Safeguards
9. 
The Environmental Audit of the concession of railway services between Bamako 
and Dakar will be prepared and implemented, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, during Project implementation, at the latest before the Midterm Review
.
Page  31
-
30 - 
 
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
(i) 
the term “eligible Categories” means, for the purpose of the 
TSPU Special Account A, Categories (1) (a); (1) (c); (2) (b); (3); (4); and (6), set forth in 
the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(ii) 
the term “eligible Categories” means, for the purpose of the 
TSPU Special Account B, Categories (1) (b) and (5), set forth in 
the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(iii) 
the term “eligible Categories” means, for the purpose of the 
TRANSRAIL Special Account, Categories (1) (a); and (2) (a), 
set forth in the table in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
(i) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means, for the purpose 
of the TSPU Special Account A, expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B.4, 
B.5, C.1 (a), and D of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(ii) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means, for the purpose of the 
TSPU Special Account B, expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part C.1 (b) of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(iii) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means, for the purpose of the 
TRANSRAIL Special Account, expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B.1 and 
B.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
(i) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, for the TSPU 
Special Account A, an amount equivalent to FCFA 
Page  32
-
31 - 
 
1,300,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Financing Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to FCFA 650,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Financing Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 5,000,000; 
(ii) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, for the TSPU Special 
Account B, an amount equivalent to FCFA 1,200,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Financing Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 600,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Financing Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000; and 
(iii) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means, for the TRANSRAIL 
Special Account, an amount equivalent to FCFA 450,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Financing Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 225,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Financing Account plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
 
SDR 600,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
Page  33
-
32 - 
 
or amounts, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Financing Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Financing 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Financing 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Financing Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  34
-
33 - 
 
from the Financing Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Financing allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Financing Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Financing allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures, 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Financing Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  35
-
34 - 
 
SCHEDULE 6  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Section 1.01 is amended to read: 
“These General Conditions set forth certain terms and conditions generally 
applicable to development financing granted by the Association as a development 
credit and development grant to its members. They apply to any development 
financing agreement providing for any such development finance to the extent 
and subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
2. 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows: 
8.  “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General Conditions 
apply; as such agreement may be amended from time to time. 
 
Development Financing Agreement includes these General Conditions as 
applied thereto, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Development Financing Agreement 
3. 
The following new paragraphs are added to Section 2.01: 
15. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement; 
16. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association on 
its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the Grant is 
credited; 
17. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant; and 
18. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account and 
the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either of the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account). 
4. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01 (2), 
2.01 (12), 3.01, 4.01, Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01 
(d), Article VII, and Article IX. 
Page  36
-
35 - 
 
5. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and 
Sections of the General Conditions, is amended to read “Financing Accounts”:  
Section 2.01 (6), 3.01, 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
6. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is amended to read the Development Financing Agreement. 
7. 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
“The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit Account and 
may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower as provided in the 
Development Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions. The amount 
of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from 
the Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
8. 
The phrase “(including any development financing agreement or development 
grant agreement)” is added to Section 6.02 (a) (ii) after the words “any development 
credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the Association”, to 
Section 6.02 (c) (i) after the words “any development credit agreement” and before the 
words “with the Association”, and to Section 7.01 (b) (i) after the words “any other 
development credit agreement” and before the words “between the Borrower and the 
Association”:   
9. 
Section 6.05 is amended to read as follows: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
any cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be applied pro rata to 
the several installments of the principal amount of the Credit maturing 
after the date of such cancellation.” 
Page  37
-
36 - 
 
SCHEDULE 7 
Implementation and Evaluation Indicators 
 1.  
Part B
:
Cumulative length of slow down in effect for more than 90 days on the 
railway track between Dakar and Bamako: less than 30 km by December 31, 
2007.  
2.  
Part C
:
(a) 
Roads between Bamako and the borders with Burkina Faso and  
Côte d'Ivoire passable and in good condition: total surface of potholes on the 
roads not to exceed 5 sq-m per km by Midterm Review or by June 30, 2006, 
whichever is the later, in respect of parts of the roads which are not the object of 
works financed under the Project, and continuously from then onward until 
completion of the Project in respect of the roads which are the object of works 
financed under the Project, following completion of the works, as well as of the 
roads which are not the object of works financed under the Project.
 
(b) 
Roads between Bamako and Gao passable and in good condition: 
total surface of potholes on the roads not to exceed 20 sq-m per km by Midterm 
Review or by June 30, 2006, whichever is the later, in respect of the roads which 
are not the object of works financed under the Project, and continuously from then 
onward until completion of the Project in respect of the roads which are the object 
of works financed under the Project, following completion of the works, as well 
as of the roads which are not the object of works financed under the Project. 
Outcome/impact indicators
:
1.  
Part B
:
(a) 
Improvement of turnaround time of wagons between Dakar and 
Bamako (rail component): 14 days in 2004 and 11 days in 2007.  
(b) 
Share of traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor compared to the 
total of international trade of Mali: 25 percent of total traffic in 2007. 
(c) 
Customer satisfaction survey: 75 percent of the 16 most important 
clients of the railway, based on their turnover with TRANSRAIL, will express 
Page  38
-
37 - 
 
satisfaction with TRANSRAIL services in every survey from 2005 onward until 
completion of the Project. 
 
2. Part 
C
:
(a) 
Increase in price of cereals in Gao is not more than the increase in 
Mopti, all other parameters being equal, as of June 30, 2008. 
 
(b)  
Access to Gao is maintained: The average speed between Bamako 
and Gao not to fall below 65 km/hour as of Midterm Review or by June 30, 2006, 
whichever is the later, in respect of the roads between Bamako and Gao which are 
not the object of works financed under the Project, and continuously from then 
onward until completion of the Project in respect of the roads which are the object 
of works financed under the Project, following completion of the works, as well 
as of the roads which are not the object of works financed under the Project. 
Output indicators
:
1. Part 
A
:
Concession fee: Target values are set out in the Concession Agreement. 
2. Part 
B
:
(a) 
Number of CARCHEM-member railway staff made redundant that 
followed training courses with support from the Project: to be measured and 
monitored during Project execution. 
(b) 
Number of CARCHEM-member railway staff made redundant 
which found a new job or started a personal business: 20 percent by 
December 31, 2005. 
3. Part 
C
:
(a) 
Bamako-Bougouni: 154 km of roads maintained with project 
resources by completion of the Project.  
(b) 
Sévaré-Gao: 407 km of roads maintained with project resources by 
completion of the Project.
 
