Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 3869 MLI 
GRANT NUMBER H075 MLI
 
Project Agreement 
(Transport Corridors Improvement Project) 
 
Between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
and 
Transrail S.A. 
(TRANSRAIL) 
 
Dated March 18, 2004
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3869 MLI 
GRANT NUMBER H075 MLI
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 18, 2004, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Transrail S.A (TRANSRAIL); 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Financing Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Republic of Mali (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to: 
(i) lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000), and (ii) made available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,800,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Financing Agreement, but only on condition that TRANSRAIL agrees to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;  
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement and a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and TRANSRAIL, part of the proceeds of the Grant and 
Credit provided for under the Development Financing Agreement will be made available or 
onlent to TRANSRAIL, as the case may be, on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Loan and Grant Agreements and pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) (A) and (B) of the Development 
Financing Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS TRANSRAIL, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Financing Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “Fiscal 
Year” means the fiscal year of TRANSRAIL, beginning on January 1 and ending on 
December 31 of each calendar year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project and other Covenants 
 
Section 2.01.  (a) TRANSRAIL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Financing Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency pursuant to the provisions set forth 
in the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Financing Agreement, 
Schedule 1 to this Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreements, the PIM and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the carrying out of  Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) to this Section 2.01, TRANSRAIL 
shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing 
basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in the PIM and summarized in Schedule 2 to this Project 
Agreement, the carrying out of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
works required for Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. TRANSRAIL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect 
of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project. 
 
 
Section 2.04. TRANSRAIL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
and Grant Agreements.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TRANSRAIL shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving 
the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. TRANSRAIL shall: 
 
(a)  
Fund the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Development Financing Agreement from 
its own resources; 
 
(b) 
At the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with 
regard to the progress of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan and Grant Agreements, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Financing or the accomplishment of the objectives of the Project; 
 
(c) 
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project or the performance by 
TRANSRAIL of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan and Grant 
Agreements; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
shall jointly with the Association and the Borrower participate in the preparation 
of the Annual Review and the Midterm Review referred to in Schedule 4 of the Development 
Financing Agreement and prepare a report on the carrying out of Part B.1 and B.2 of the Project 
during the previous calendar year including recommendations for any improvements to be made; 
and 
 
(e) 
promptly after any such reviews take all measures agreed upon by TRANSRAIL, 
the Borrower and the Association to improve
 TRANSRAIL’s performance in accomplishing the 
objectives of the Project. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of TRANSRAIL 
 
Section 3.01. TRANSRAIL shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, accounting and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. TRANSRAIL shall at all times operate and maintain its facility, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative and technical practices. 
 
Section 3.03. TRANSRAIL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks, other than the risk of 
default under credit provided by TRANSRAIL, and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
appropriate practice.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  TRANSRAIL shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to Parts B.1 and 2 of the Project. 
(b) TRANSRAIL 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) relating to 
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon TRANSRAIL’s reporting obligations set out in 
Section 2.05 this Agreement, TRANSRAIL shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Parts B.1 and B.2 of the 
Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under Part B.1 and B.2 of the Project through the end of such 
first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination, Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
TRANSRAIL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development 
Financing
 Agreement shall 
terminate; or 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Financing Agreement terminates before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify TRANSRAIL of this 
event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, DC 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
For TRANSRAIL : 
 
TRANSRAIL 
Immeuble Le Babemba 
 
B.P. 4150 
 
Bamako 
 
République du Mali 
 
Facsimile:  Fax: 222 54 33 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of TRANSRAIL for 
 
Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project or by TRANSRAIL on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Financing Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Director General, or by such 
other person or persons as TRANSRAIL shall designate in writing, and TRANSRAIL shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/   David Craig 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
TRANSRAIL  S. A. 
 
By /s/ Réjean Belanger 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consulta
nts’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A
:
General
With the exception in the second 
alinea
 of the present paragraph, works and goods shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
For all contracts pertaining to goods or works under Part B.1 of the Project, the 
provisions set forth in paragraph 3.13 of the Guidelines shall apply. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.55 and 2.56 of the guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract and works estimated 
to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Page  9
-
8
-
3. 
Procurement through International Agencies
Office equipment estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract 
and vehicles may be procured from IAPSO. 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, to be financed out of 
the Project Account, may be procured under lump sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to Part A of this Section: 
(a)  
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more;  
(b) the first three contracts for goods procured under Section I of Part C.1 of this Schedule;  
(c)  the first three contracts for goods procured under Section I of Part C.2 of this Schedule; 
(d) the first three contracts for works procured under Section I of Part C.4 of this Schedule; and 
(e) any amendment to a contract raising the value of said contract to or above the equivalent of 
$250,000 for goods and the equivalent of 500,000 for works; the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
Page  10
-
9
-
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, 
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for:   
(a) 
research activities and activities requiring specialized expertise, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and  
(b) 
 training under Part B.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for the provision of training which are estimated to cost less than $15,000 
equivalent per contract for individual consultants, and estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract for consultant firms, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of
 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines
.
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for individual consultants: (a) meeting the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, and (b) employed under contracts concluded with 
TRANSRAIL, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of  
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to any contract awarded pursuant to Part C.2 of this Section, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultant, the 
consultants or the consultant firm, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for training, workshops, conference attendance and 
study tours, the Bank’s non-objection to the annual activity and procurement program shall be 
deemed approval of said activity. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. The exception to 
prior review for consultant contracts does not apply to terms of reference for such contracts, 
single-source hiring, assignments of critical nature as determined by the Borrower and IDA, and 
to amendments to contracts raising their value above the US$100,000 equivalent threshold for 
firms and US$50,000 equivalent threshold for individual consultants. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators 
 
1.  
Part B
:
Cumulative length of slow down in effect for more than 90 days on the railway track 
between Dakar and Bamako: less than 30 km by December 31, 2007.  
2.  
Part C
:
(a) 
Roads between Bamako a
nd
the borders with Burkina Faso and Côte d'Ivoire 
passable and in good condition: total surface of potholes on the roads not to exceed 5 sq-m  
per km by Midterm Review or by June 30, 2006, whichever is the later, in respect of parts of the 
roads which are not the object of works financed under the Project, and continuously from then 
onward until completion of the Project in respect of the roads which are the object of works 
financed under the Project, following completion of the works, as well as of the roads which are 
not the object of works financed under the Project.
 
(b) 
Roads between Bamako and Gao passable and in good condition: total surface of 
potholes on the roads not to exceed 20 sq-m per km by Midterm Review or by June 30, 2006, 
whichever is the later, in respect of the roads which are not the object of works financed under the 
Project, and continuously from then onward until completion of the Project in respect of the roads 
which are the object of works financed under the Project, following completion of the works, as 
well as of the roads which are not the object of works financed under the Project. 
Outcome/impact indicators
:
1.  
Part B
:
(a) 
Improvement of turnaround time of wagons between Dakar and Bamako (rail 
component): 14 days in 2004 and 11 days in 2007.  
(b) 
Share of traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor compared to the total of 
international trade of Mali: 25 percent of total traffic in 2007. 
(c) 
Customer satisfaction survey: 75 percent of the 16 most important clients of the 
railway, based on their turnover with TRANSRAIL, will express satisfaction with TRANSRAIL 
services in every survey from 2005 onward until completion of the Project. 
2. Part 
C
:
(a) 
Increase in price of cereals in Gao is not more than the increase in Mopti, all 
other parameters being equal, as of June 30, 2008. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
 
(b)  
Access to Gao is maintained: The average speed between Bamako and Gao not to 
fall below 65 km/hour as of Midterm Review or by June 30, 2006, whichever is the later, in 
respect of the roads between Bamako and Gao which are not the object of works financed under 
the Project, and continuously from then onward until completion of the Project in respect of the 
roads which are the object of works financed under the Project, following completion of the 
works, as well as of the roads which are not the object of works financed under the Project. 
Output indicators
:
1. 
Concession fee: Target values are set out in the Concession Agreement. 
2. Part 
A
:
(a) 
Number of CARCHEM-member railway staff made redundant that followed 
training courses with support from the Project: to be measured and monitored during Project 
execution. 
(b) 
Number of CARCHEM-member railway staff made redundant which found a 
new job or started a personal business: 20 percent by December 31, 2005. 
3. Part 
C
:
(a) 
Bamako-Bougouni: 154 km of roads maintained with project resources by 
completion of the Project.  
(b) 
Sévaré-Gao: 407 km of roads maintained with project resources by completion of 
the Project. 
 
