                                Document of
                               The World Bank



                                                Report No: ICR00001434


       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-38690 IDA-H0750)



                                 ON A

                                CREDIT

                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.2 MILLION
                   (US$32.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                             AND A GRANT

                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.8 MILLION
                   (US$15.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MALI

                               FOR THE

          TRANSPORT CORRIDORS IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                              June 23, 2010




Transport Sector
Country Department AFCF1
Africa Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2009)

                            Currency Unit = FCFA
                             SDR1.00 = US$1.57
                            US$1.00 = 456 FCFA

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              January - December

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB       African Development Bank
AFD        French Development Agency (Agence Français de Développement)
BOAD       West African Development Bank (Banque Ouest Africaine de
           Développement)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CARCHEM    Advisory Unit for the redeployment of Rail workers (Cellule d'Appui à la
           Reinsertions des Cheminots)
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DNACPN     National Directorate of Sanitization, Pollution and Nuisance control
           (Direction Nationale de l'Assainissement et du Contrôle des Nuisances)
DNR        National Highway Department (Direction Nationale des Routes)
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
FCFA       Franc CFA
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOM        Government of Mali
HDM-4      Highway Development and Management Model version 4
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA        International Development Association
IP         Implementation Progress
IRI        International Roughness Index
ISR        Implementation Status and Result Report
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MET        Ministry of Equipment and Transport (Ministère de I 'Equipement et des
           Transports)
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NPV        Net Present Value
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PSR        Project Status Report
PST1       First Transport Sector Project (Premier Projet Sectoriel des
           Transports)
PST2       Second Transport Sector Project (Deuxième Projet Sectoriel des
         Transports)
RCFM     Mali Railway Company (Régie des Chemins de Fer du Mali)
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SDR      Road Data Service (Service des Données Routières)
SNCS     National Railway Company of Senegal (Société Nationale des Chemins de
         Fer du Sénégal)
UNC      Coordination Unit of Transport Sector Projects (Unité de Coordination
         des Projets de Transport)
WAEMU    West African Economic and Monetary Union
WATTFP   West Africa Transport and Transit Facilitation Project




                      Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekweseli
                   Country Director: Habib Fetini
                    Sector Manager: C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                Project Team Leader: Siélé Silué
                  ICR Team Leader: Papa Mamadou Fall
                ICR Primary Author: Papa Mamadou Fall
                            REPUBLIC OF MALI
                   Transport Corridors Improvement Project




                                  CONTENTS



  Data Sheet                                                                  i
  A. Basic Information                                                        i
  B. Key Dates                                                                i
  C. Ratings Summary                                                          i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                  ii
  E. Bank Staff                                                              ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis                                             iii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                  vi
  H. Restructuring (if any)                                                  vi
  I. Disbursement Profile                                                   vii
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                       1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                        5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                              15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                            16
  6. Lessons Learned                                                        20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners   22
  Annex 1. Project and Program Costs and Financing                          23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component                                             24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                                  26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes    37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results                                       40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                          41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR           42
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders        56
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents                                     57
  MAP                                                                       58
IBRD MAP 32868
A. Basic Information
                                                                            TRANSPORT
                                                                            CORRIDORS
Country:                Mali                      Project Name:
                                                                            IMPROVEMENT
                                                                            PROJECT
Project ID:             P079351                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38690,IDA-H0750
ICR Date:               06/23/2010                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            MALI
Original Total
                        XDR 33.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 32.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 32.8M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Equipment and Transport
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/15/2002       Effectiveness:            09/16/2004         09/16/2004
Appraisal:            01/28/2004       Restructuring(s):                            11/26/2007
Approval:             03/11/2004       Mid-term Review:          06/30/2006         03/24/2006
                                       Closing:                  12/31/2008         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                 21                  21
Railways                                                              10                  11
Roads and highways                                                    66                  66
Sub-national government administration                                 3                   2


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                               17                  17
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                16                  16
Pollution management and environmental health                         17                  17
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 17                  17
Trade facilitation and market access                                  33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Habib M. Fetini                      A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham               C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
Project Team Leader:       Siele Silue                          Jean-Noel Guillossou
ICR Team Leader:           Papa Mamadou Fall
ICR Primary Author:        Papa Mamadou Fall


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the Project are to (a) enhance international transport through
improvement of transport corridors linking Mali to the coastal countries of West Africa


                                                ii
by rail and road, respectively, and (b) sustain accessibility of the northern regions of the
Borrower's territories.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                Roads between Bamako and borders of Côte d#Ivoire and Burkina Faso passable
Indicator 1 : and in good condition. The total surface of potholes on the roads should not
                exceed 5 sq-m per km during the period of project execution
Value           Potholes (8 sq-m per km) Total surface of
quantitative or due to lack of road          potholes < 5 sq-m                  0.35 sq-m per km
Qualitative)    maintenance                  per km.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                     03/30/2006                         12/31/2009
Comments
                187% achievement on Bamako # Bougouni - Sikasso # Zégoua (border with Côte
(incl. %
                d#Ivoire).
achievement)
                The cumulative length of slowdown (duration of speed restrictions) in effect for
Indicator 2 :
                more than 90 days on the railway track between Dakar and Bamako
Value
quantitative or 228 km                       30 km                              121 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2005                     12/31/2007                         12/31/2009
Comments
                54% achievement: the length of slowdown on the Malian portion of the corridor
(incl. %
                is 22 km, the length of slowdown on the Senegalese portion is 99 km.
achievement)
                Roads between Bamako and Gao passable and in good condition. The total
Indicator 3 : surface of potholes on the roads should not exceed 20 sq-m per km during the
                period of project execution
Value           Wide potholes (200 sq-m Total surface of
quantitative or per km) due to lack of       potholes < 20 sq-                  32.7 sq-m per km
Qualitative)    road maintenance.            m per km.
Date achieved 01/01/2005                     03/30/2006                         12/31/2009
                94% achieved on Bamako # Sévaré - Gao. However, this indicator should have
Comments        been revised to reflect the fact that following the restructuring, only a 85 km
(incl. %        section out of a initially planned 407 km of the Sévaré # Gao (Sévaré #
achievement) Douentza) was completed




                                              iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
                Share of traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor compared to the total of
Indicator 1 :
                international trade of Mali
Value
(quantitative   15%                         25%                                 7.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2001                    12/31/2007                          12/31/2009
                Not achieved. This is because the actual share of traffic (7.8%) moved by rail by
Comments
                End of the Project (EOP) was substantially less than even the baseline market
(incl. %
                share (15%) figure, due to the deteriorating performance of the railway transport
achievement)
                mode
Indicator 2 : Improvement of turnaround time of wagons between Dakar and Bamako
Value
(quantitative   14 days                     11 days                             22 days
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                    12/31/2007                          12/30/2009
                Not achieved. As of the original target date of end-2007, the value of the
Comments
                indicator was 14 days. Subsequently, the turnaround time has deteriorated to 22
(incl. %
                days due to the recent operational and financial difficulties that TRANSRAIL is
achievement)
                currently facing
                Customer satisfaction survey: percentage of the 16 most important clients of the
Indicator 3 : railway, based on their turn-over, satisfied with the railway concessionaire#s
                services
Value
(quantitative   Not available               75%                                 25%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                    12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
                Not achieved. More specifically, customer satisfaction has gone down by 48%
(incl. %
                compared to a survey conducted in 2008.
achievement)
                Increase in price of cereals in Gao area is not more than the increase in Mopti
Indicator 4 :
                area as of June 30, 2008, all other parameters being equal
                                                                                Price increase 09/08
                                                                                (%)
                                                                                           Mopti
                Price increase 02/01 (%)                                        Gao
                           Mopti Gao                                            Millet       42.9
Value                                       Increase in Gao is
                Millet       5.1      0.7                                       28.6
(quantitative                               no more than
                Sorghum 24.6         24.5                                       Sorghum 35.7
or Qualitative)                             increase in Mopti.
                Corn       27.6     32.1                                        14.3
                Rice        26.6     26.3                                       Corn        35.7
                                                                                14.3
                                                                                Rice          1.4
                                                                                21.4


                                                iv
Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008                          12/31/2009
                75% achievement. All Targets achieved except for rice, whose increase in Gao is
Comments
                higher than the one in Mopti. The rationale behind this indicator is that price
(incl. %
                increases in Gao are directly correlated with the poor condition of Sévaré-Gao
achievement)
                road.
Indicator 5 : Average speed between Bamako and Gao
Value
(quantitative   60 km per hour             >65 km per hour                     70 km per hour
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   06/30/2006                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement on road sections that have been completed under the project.
achievement)
                Bamako # Bougouni: 154 km of roads maintained with project resources by
Indicator 6 :
                completion of the project.
Value
(quantitative   0                          154 km                              154 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement.
achievement)
                Sévaré - Gao: 85 km of roads maintained with project resources by completion of
Indicator 7 :
                the project.
Value
(quantitative   0 km                       407 km              85 km           85 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                   12/31/2008          12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        100% achievement of formally revised target of 85 km
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     05/10/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     11/04/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     12/15/2004       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  4     04/12/2005       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  5     09/19/2005       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                  14.00
  6     10/23/2005    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            14.36
  7     05/16/2006    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            19.50
  8     09/16/2006    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            30.02
  9     03/25/2007    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            33.06
 10     10/25/2007    Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            33.06



                                                v
 11    05/11/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   45.94
                                                        Moderately
 12    11/20/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                  46.04
                                                      Unsatisfactory
 13    04/25/2009       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          48.38
 14    12/05/2009   Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory          48.67


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Restructuring took place in
                                                     order to: (a) extension of the
                                                     project#s closing date by twelve
                                                     months from December 31,
                                                     2008 to December 31, 2009;
                                                     (b) reallocation of credit and
                                                     grant proceeds of SDR 1.56
                                                     million to category 1-C (Works
                                                     # Part C1) to fund cost overrun
                                                     on Bamako-Bougouni road
                                                     works; (c) reduction in scope of
                                                     works on Sévaré # Gao road to
                                                     fund the periodic maintain of
 11/26/2007       N       MS    MS           33.06   only the most deteriorated 85
                                                     km section between Sévaré and
                                                     Douentza; (d) agree with the
                                                     GOM that they would provide
                                                     adequate maintenance funding
                                                     to fully cover the maintenance
                                                     needs of the sections of the
                                                     Sévaré # Gao road that could
                                                     not be funded under the
                                                     project; and (e) revision of
                                                     output indicator relative to
                                                     Sévaré # Gao road to reflect the
                                                     above mentioned reduction in
                                                     scope.




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Economic situation at appraisal. At the time of appraisal in 2004 the Malian economy
was in relatively good shape with GDP growth of around six percent and low inflation. This was
despite the 2002 crisis in Cote d'Ivoire which had disrupted for several months the use of the
transport corridor through Cote d'Ivoire and the global economic slowdown partly caused by the
9-11 events in the US.

2.      Transport sector. The road transport network consisted of 89,000 km of classified roads
of which about 67,000 km were rural earth roads, and the rail network consisted of 584 km of
track. Mali had one main international airport (Bamako, Sénou), eight regional airports and one
national airline. Overall, the transport sector accounted for five percent of GDP in 2004. Until
the 2002 crisis in Cote d'Ivoire, the country primarily used two major surface transport corridors
(Bamako ­ Dakar and Bamako ­ Abidjan) and freight volumes had increased from about 917
thousand tons in 1993 to about 2 million tons in 1999.

3.      Road sub-sector. Starting from the mid-80's Mali has invested heavily in developing its
road network. Nevertheless, its road density remained one of the lowest in West Africa, with 1.2
km of road per 100 sq-km, compared to 3.1 for the Economic Community of West African States
as a whole. Inadequate maintenance funding for the road network, combined with the use of
force account by the Government of Mali (GOM), created a major maintenance backlog and
deterioration in the road network condition. This meant that by 2003, 78 percent of the 8,786 km
network under the responsibility of the Ministry of Equipment and Transport (MET) was in poor
or bad condition.

4.      As part of the first Transport Sector Project (PST1), the Government took three critical
and courageous decisions to: (a) restructure the National Highway Department (DNR) to shift its
mission away from execution of road maintenance works by force account to planning; (b) create
a Road Fund, which would facilitate road funding disbursements as well as increase the
efficiency of Malian private public works companies as stable and long-term financing would
now be made available to them; and (c) create a Contracting Agency for Road Maintenance
(AGEROUTE) which would complete the intended reform of the road sector management by
centralizing into one single entity the role of managing execution of routine and periodic road
maintenance.

5.     At the time of appraisal in 2004, the status of the above mentioned reforms were as
follows: (a) DNR was restructured and tasked with defining the country's road development
policy and elaborating the country's road routine and periodic maintenance program. As an
oversight agency for road maintenance works, DNR was then working closely with the "Service
des Données Routières" (i.e., Road Data Service), in order to assess road maintenance priorities
throughout the country; (b) the Road Fund became operational in July 2002 and was set up to
channel maintenance funds through the allocation of (i) an axle load charge paid by trucks using
Mali's road network; (ii) a fuel levy on petroleum products; (iii) toll fees charged on selected

                                                1
road segments; and (iv) funds from the Government special investment budget. Of these four
sources of financing, the Government special investment budget, the axle load charge and the
fuel levy were in place in 2004; (c) the creation of AGEROUTE was scheduled to be ratified by
the National Assembly in December 2004 and effective in 2005. Even though at appraisal, all
these structures had the merit to exist, their implementation capacity was weak or inexistent.
Substantial efforts were needed to strengthen their capacity and thus sustain the transport sector
reform agenda.

6.       Rail sub-sector. During the 1990's the market share of goods carried by rail declined
from about 34 percent to 18 percent. This was because the state owned Mali Railway Company
(RCFM) could not effectively compete with road freight haulage combined with the more
competitive privatized railway company in Côte d'Ivoire-Burkina Faso. As a result of this,
compared to the early 1990s when rail freight traffic peaked at more than 500,000 tons, by 2002
traffic had declined to only about 250,000 tons for international traffic and 70,000 tons for local
traffic.

7.     Before the concessioning of the railways, the financial situation of the two national
railway companies (SNCS and RCFM) had severely deteriorated with annual combined losses of
FCFA10 billion, mainly due to increase in labor costs and, poor management and corruption.

8.      Sector policies and plans. The GOM had implemented several reforms with the support
of the donor community under the umbrella of the 1994 ­ 2004 Transport Sector Program, partly
implemented before the appraisal of the project. In its 2004 Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), the
Government outlined a coherent and comprehensive sector strategy aimed at: (a) organizing the
competition in the road transport market for freight; (b) rehabilitating and modernizing the public
transportation fleet; (c) improving the functioning of transport corridors; (d) improving road
safety; (e) restructuring public enterprises in the transport sector; (f) reorganizing road
maintenance and recovery of infrastructure costs; (g) capacity building; and (h) environmental
and social management.

9.      The project. The project was a follow-up to the PST1, and was primarily designed to
support and consolidate the reforms introduced in the transport sector by PST1. It was also
designed to reduce the country's economic isolation by improving regional transport
infrastructure and access to remote parts of the country. The total estimated cost of the project at
appraisal was about US$67 million of which US$49 million would be funded by IDA while the
balance would be funded by GOM. Other development partners were expected to provide
parallel financing worth about US$65 million to support activities in the road and rail sub-sectors
consistent with the project's objectives.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

10.     The PDO. The objectives of the project were to: (a) enhance international transport
through improvement of transport corridors linking Mali to the coastal countries of West Africa
by rail and road respectively; and (b) sustain accessibility to the Northern region of Mali, one of
the poorest regions in the country. Although the project was restructured in 2007, the PDOs were
left unchanged.

                                                 2
11.    The PDOs were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated July 31,
2003 (IDA/R2003-0160), which sought to reduce the country's vulnerability due to climate
conditions and lack of sea access by diversifying the economy, building and maintaining
necessary infrastructure, and protecting the environment. The project addressed these issues
through its specific measures to: improve the maintenance of transport infrastructure assets;
support the reforms of the road sector; and protect the environment, and improving road safety.

12.     Key Indicators of Performance. The key performance indicators are summarized in the
table below.

                              Table 1: Key Performance Indicators
Road Maintenance Component
PDO Indicators:
· Roads between Bamako and borders of Côte d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso are
    passable and in good condition: the total surface of potholes on the roads should
    not exceed 5 sq-m per km during the period of project execution; and
· Roads between Bamako and Gao passable and in good condition: the total surface
    of potholes on the roads should not exceed 20 sq-m per km during the period of
    project execution.
Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
· Increase in price of cereals in Gao is not more than the increase in Mopti area as of
    June 30, 2008, all other parameters being equal; and
    Average speed between Bamako and Gao.
Rail Component
PDO Indicator:
· Cumulative length of slowdown (duration of speed restrictions) in effect for more
    than 90 days on the railway track between Dakar and Bamako.
Intermediate Outcome Indicators:
· Share of traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor compared to the total of
    international trade of Mali: 25 percent of total traffic in 2007;
· Improvement of turnaround time of wagons between Dakar and Bamako;
· Customer satisfaction survey: percentage of the 16 most important clients of the
    railway, based on their turn-over, satisfied with the railway concessionaire's
    services.

1.3 Main Beneficiaries

13.     Rail. The rail component of the project was expected to benefit producers and consumers
of products transported by rail in Senegal and Mali by: (a) making rail transport more
competitive than road transport for the transportation of certain types of goods such as bulk dry
products, containers and petroleum products. These products could be transported in large
quantities by rail over long leads more cost effectively generating economies of scale compared
to road transport; and (b) improving reliability, safety and operational efficiency of the railway
compared to the situation at appraisal hence reducing loss of goods and cost of maintenance.
Improved railway services were also expected to benefit the isolated rural poor communities

                                                3
living along the railway track between Bamako and Kayes, at the border with Senegal. Finally,
the concessioning of rail services was to benefit the Government's budget by reducing the
financial burden caused by the poor financial situation of the public railway company.

14.     Roads. The road rehabilitation works on the Sévaré - Gao road corridor was to directly
benefit the population of Gao, Kidal and Tombouctou regions, in the North of Mali, which are
the poorest parts of the country by improving mobility and access to the rest of the country.
Although the region has a strong economic development potential (live stock, fishing, mining
and tourism), it is difficult to develop this potential due to the long distance between the region
and other regions and economic centers in Mali.

15.     The road rehabilitation works on the Bamako-Bougouni road was expected to benefit
cotton producers in the Bougouni region by reducing transport costs along the Dakar corridor by
making it more competitive relative to the competing Abidjan road/railway corridor used to
export cotton. For imports, it was expected to increase competition between corridors to the
benefit of consumers and tradable sectors of the economy.

1.4 Original Components

16.     Component A: Rail (original allocation US$15.23 million; Actual cost US$15.32
million): (i) Social compensation plan: Support the implementation of the social compensation
plan to mitigate the impact of staff made redundant by the concessioning of rail services to a
private operator. The plan included the following activities: (a) financing of severance payment;
(b) technical advisory services and operating costs of the unit created to provide support to
redundant staff in evaluating training needs, finding a new job, and preparing personal business
projects; (c) measures aimed at facilitating reinsertion of redundant staff; and (d) technical
advisory services to monitor the social impact of redundancies during and after the period of
implementation of the social and compensation plan; (ii) Infrastructure rehabilitation and
modernization: Rehabilitation of the most deteriorated sections of the railway track between
Bamako and the Senegalese border through: (a) procurement of inputs (rail, sleepers, ballast) to
rehabilitation works; (b) measures to mitigate the environmental and social impact of the
rehabilitation works and past degradations prior to the concession; and (c) technical advisory
services for implementation and monitoring of the railway component of the social and
environmental mitigation plan of the project; and (iii) Institutional support through technical
advisory services for the first audit of the railway concession scheduled during the third year of
the concession in the concession agreement, and support to the committee appointed to monitor
implementation of the concession and compliance with the concession agreement. The railway
component of the project was implemented in parallel with the Railways sub-sector
component of the Senegal Second Transport Sector Project (PST2) which provided about
US$22 million equivalent in funding.

17.     Component B: Road maintenance (Original allocation US$32.48 million ; Actual
costUS$32.14 million ): (i) Periodic maintenance of road network: (a) periodic maintenance of
the 154 km section of the road between Bamako and Bougouni, which is part of the road linking
Bamako, the capital city of Mali, to the ports on the West African Coast (Abidjan in Côte
d'Ivoire, Tema in Ghana, and Lomé in Togo); and 407 km of the 558 km road between Sévaré

                                                4
and Gao, which is part of the only road giving access from Bamako to the Extreme North of
Mali; (b) technical advisory services for supervision of works; and (c) measures to protect the
environment, to improve road safety and to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS resulting from the
presence of civil works contractors in the villages along both roads; and (ii) Institutional
support: (a) technical advisory services for impact monitoring; (b) technical advisory services,
equipment and training to support implementation of road sector reforms and strengthening of
the local road construction industry; (c) environmental and social impact assessment of road
maintenance, strengthening of the capacity of the Road Agency to implement environmental and
social mitigation action plans.

18.    Component C: Project management (Original allocation US$0.92 million; Actual
cost US$0.97 million ): The component includes: (a) technical audit of the works carried out and
the goods provided in components A and B (review of procurement procedures, quality of works,
compliance with contracts); (b) technical advisory services for fiduciary aspects of project
coordination (financial management specialist, accountant); (c) financial audit of project
accounts; and (d) operating costs of the project coordination unit.

1.5 Significant changes

19.    Increases in the cost of road works led to Project restructuring. In light of the sharply
increased cost of the road component (cf. paragraph 28), the project had to be restructured in
November 2007 and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended as follows: (a)
extension of the project's closing date by twelve months from December 31, 2008 to December
31, 2009; (b) reallocation of credit and grant proceeds of SDR 1.56 m to category 1-C (Works ­
Part C1) to fund cost overrun on Bamako-Bougouni road works; (c) reduction in scope of works
on Sévaré ­ Gao road to fund the periodic maintain of only the most deteriorated 85 km section
between Sévaré and Douentza; (d) agree with the GOM that they would provide adequate
maintenance funding to fully cover the maintenance needs of the sections of the Sévaré ­ Gao
road that could not be funded under the project; and (e) revision of output indicator relative to
Sévaré ­ Gao road to reflect the above mentioned reduction in scope.

20.    Although the project was restructured, the PDOs were not modified.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Preparation

21.     Project preparation addressed outstanding institutional, regulatory and sector-wide
infrastructure issues in the railway, and roads sub-sectors.

22.    The project was prepared and appraised in a relatively short time frame of about 17
months, at a time when the GOM faced three following major challenges within the sector: (a)
the urgency to intervene on the country's deteriorating road network; (b) the need to mitigate the
impacts of the crisis in Côte d'Ivoire on Mali's access to regional ports by securing an all-year

                                                5
satisfactory level of service along the road from Bamako to the borders of Côte d'Ivoire and
Burkina Faso and the road from Bamako to Gao which links the Extreme North of Mali to the
rest of the country; and (c) the need to support the newly concessioned Dakar-Bamako railway
by financing the retrenchment of staff from the RCFM, and the necessary upgrading of the rail
infrastructure.

23.     GOM also faced the need to consolidate reforms carried out in the rail and road sub-
sectors under the PST1 (cf. paragraphs 4, 5, 6). Operations of rail services were transferred in
October 2003 to the private concessionaire designated in February 2003. The Road Fund had
already been created to improve efficiency and transparency in the use of road maintenance
resources by involving road users in its management and in the decision-making process with
respect to road maintenance program definition. Execution of road maintenance was also
`privatized' since the Road Fund became operational in 2002. The only reform not yet
implemented was the creation of the Road Agency which was scheduled to be completed in
2004.

Project Design

24.     Measures to address the above mentioned urgent transport sector related issues were
evident and fairly straightforward and hence required a relatively simple and targeted project
design. Furthermore, the project's design built on a key lesson learned from the PST1 which was
to simplify and adjust project design to better match Mali's absorptive capacity for
implementation and reforms in the transport sector.

25.     Project design rightly included measures to ensure sustainability of investments of the
road component by providing technical advisory services, equipment and training to support the
implementation of road sector reforms. Support to the newly established road fund (Autorité
Routière), road data service (SDR), and road agency (AGEROUTE) was deemed necessary to
improve road maintenance financing, programming, and execution in the context of a rapidly
deteriorating road network. Furthermore, the project had a robust risk mitigation matrix, with
the risks and mitigation clearly identified during the preparation phase.

26.     However, the Project's DO of improving Mali's access to the ports of Dakar by rail was
not entirely consistent with the level of support funded under the project. For instance, the
US$15 million financing provided under the rail component, with only US$5 million for rail
infrastructure, was insufficient to address the critical operational and structural issues faced by
the rail concession. In fact, TRANSRAIL's short-term investment plan at appraisal was
estimated at US$60 million.

27.    Furthermore, the PDO as designed implicitly covered the issue of transit facilitation
along the corridors to Abidjan, yet the project did not support any facilitation supporting
measures. More specifically, improvement in port access by road required much more than the
physical improvement of the Bamako-Sikasso-Zégoua road. That is because other issues such as
numerous Non Tariff Barriers (NTBs) affected full access to the coastal ports of Abidjan,
Takoradi and Tema.



                                                6
Quality at Entry

28.    Project preparation incorporated some of the key lessons learned from preparing and
implementing the PST1, such as the need to finalize the detailed engineering for major road
works before project approval.

29.    Although engineering studies for the road component were substantially completed by
the time the project was negotiated, bidding documents for the civil works were not available.
Furthermore, following the bankruptcy of the international consulting firm in charge of
conducting the engineering studies for the planned Sévaré-Gao road works, the preparation of
bidding documents was left to local consultants under the supervision of the National Highway
Department (DNR). This resulted in poorly prepared bidding documents and a major under
estimation in the costs for the proposed road works.

30.     The procurement capacity constraint of the implementation agency for the road
component was assessed during appraisal, and mitigation measures were proposed to anticipate
the identified weaknesses in terms of: (a) preparation of bidding documents; (b) filing of
procurement documentation; and (c) contract management. The action plan recommended that
staff within implementing agencies must receive procurement training prior to their involvement
in the procurement process.

2.2 Implementation

31.     Implementation was initially affected by the following factors: (a) project took about six
months to become effective due to delays in the ratification of project documents, and delays in
the signing of the subsidiary grant and loan agreements between the GOM and TRANSRAIL1;
(b) continued weak procurement capacity of the newly restructured roads agency (DNR); (c)
large time gap between when the design studies for the road works were completed and when the
actual bidding process for the road works was actually completed; (d) sharp increases in fuel
prices following the increase in crude oil prices from an average of US$30 per barrel in 2004 to
over US$100 per barrel in 2006/2007 and for other critical construction inputs such as cement,
bitumen, etc.; and (e) the use of optimistic cost estimates during the preparation of the project for
the proposed civil works to be funded.

32.     Increased road works costs. The above-mentioned implementation constraints resulted
in a substantial increase in the cost of the road component. Indeed, the cost of road works for
Bamako ­ Bougouni doubled from about US$17.8 million estimated at appraisal to about
US$37.5 million based on actual bids received. As a result of the increase in the road works
costs, only 85 km out of the planned 407 km of maintenance works on the Sévaré ­ Gao road
could be funded under the project. The higher than estimated prices of road work required a
reallocation of Credit proceeds.

33.   The Bank conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project in March 2006.
Implementation and progress toward achievement of PDOs were noted as moderately
1
    This explains the three consecutive unsatisfactory ratings in the ISRs at the onset of the project.


                                                              7
satisfactory despite the fact that previously identified risks relative to procurement and costs still
remained. Mitigating measures to those risks were identified, and the GOM was committed to
implementing them. While the works on Bamako-Bougouni had started by MTR, the bidding
documents of Sévaré-Gao road were yet to be finalized. With respect to the rail component, the
MTR concluded that the information and data available were neither sufficient to make a
pertinent assessment of progress towards the achievement of PDOs, nor did they allow to
analyze and identify the necessary actions to be realized.

34.     Shortly after Mid-Term review it was decided to restructure the project to ensure that
resources are available to meet the objectives of TCIP. However, the PDO remained unchanged
despite the reduction in scope of the road maintenance component from about 561 km to about
240 km. Indeed, the project's intervention on Sévaré ­ Gao road was scaled down to the most
deteriorated 85 km section between Sévaré ­ Douentza. The GOM took the firm engagement to
maintain an acceptable level of service on the remaining sections of the Sévaré ­ Gao road
through the provision of annual maintenance.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

35.     The project inherited a context of weak monitoring and evaluation capacity, which it
subsequently helped to strengthen, especially with the support given to the then newly created
Road Data Service (SDR) which was equipped and trained to collect road condition data and
establish a road database. Furthermore, the project benefited from additional M&E capacity
brought by the Second Transport Sector Project (PST2) through the recruitment of an M&E
specialist within the project coordinating unit, and the establishment of an M&E information
system.

36.      The M&E design included eight key performance indicators, which were difficult to
monitor and some of them were not directly attributable to what the project could realistically
achieve. Furthermore, the relevance of the following indicators used to track the project's impact
is questionable, more specifically: (a) the increase of price of cereals which proved not to be a
good indicator of an improved road as other factors, beyond the project's scope can affect these
prices, and (b) the cumulative length of slowdown (speed restrictions) which is directly
correlated to the condition of the rail track while the biggest part of the rail financing was for the
staff retrenchment plan.

37.     This problem in the M&E framework design resulted in a situation whereby even if the
project's outputs had been successfully implemented, some of the project's outcomes would not
have been captured or identified. The Government and the project team missed the opportunity
to resolve this issue during MTR. Nevertheless, great efforts were committed to measure and
monitor the indicators, and data were collected for all indicators. The main challenge faced by
M&E staff was the absence of reliable baseline data for some of the indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

38.    Safeguards. Safeguards compliance was highly satisfactory. There was a true
collaborative spirit between all involved agencies and especially DNR and the National

                                                  8
Directorate of Sanitization, Pollution and Nuisance Control (DNACPN) in ensuring that
environmental and social aspects of the project are properly addressed in conformity with the
objectives of IDA's operational policies. A major outcome of the project is the general
mainstreaming of safeguards in road contracts in Mali (cf. paragraph 64).

39.     Environment. The Environment Category was rated `B' at appraisal. Although the
project financed only maintenance and rehabilitation of existing roads, OP 4.04 (natural habitat)
was triggered. Environmental impact of road works were systematically mitigated as a result of
the standards and guidelines developed and included in all road work contracts under the project.
Trained environmental staff of the transport agencies regularly monitored mitigation activities.

40.    Social issues. The study for the social and environmental impacts of the railway
concession has been carried out and approved by both the Governments of Mali and Senegal.
Retrenchment of several hundred redundant staff of former railways companies (RCFM in Mali
and the National Railway Company of Senegal (SNCS) in Senegal) was carried out with Bank
support and under terms and conditions that were appreciated by staff involved.

41.     Financial Management. Financial management by the Coordination Unit of Transport
Sector Program (UNC) was efficient. The quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports were received
regularly and were fully compliant with the agreed format.

42.     Procurement. Overall procurement performance under the project was unsatisfactory.
The weak procurement capacity at the start of the project contributed to the initial delays in
execution of the roads component. Poor preparation of bid documents, lack of training, and
weak contract management capacity were the main issues that hampered project implementation
(cf. paragraphs 74 and 91). However, strengthening the capacity of staff of the executing
agencies, through intensive training programs for works and consultant services helped raise
procurement performance significantly by the time of project closing.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

43.      Sustaining project outcomes. Consolidation of the project's outcomes is underway
through the two active bank financed transport sector projects in Mali ­ Second Transport Sector
Project (PST2), and West Africa Transport and Transit Facilitation Project (WATTFP). The
institutional reforms that created the road fund and the roads agency (AGEROUTE) have been
enacted by decrees and are likely to be sustained.

44.     Financing of road maintenance on the path to sustainability. Both regular and
periodic maintenance are now executed under the annual road maintenance program which is a
major outcome of the project. Maintenance under these programs by the Road Authority (AR) is
likely to be sustained due to the mobilization of financing from a number of sources and the
increased budget for the Road Fund (from 7.3 billion CFAF in 2005 to 16.5 billion CFAF in
2009). Following the March 2009 increase of fuel levy tax from CFAF 3 to CFAF 25, 70
percent of the total budget of the road fund is expected to be generated from user charges. This
increase in user fees goes a long way in achieving second generation road fund status totally
financed by user charges.

                                               9
45.     New institutional framework for the Dakar ­ Bamako rail concession. Both GOM
and Government of Senegal (GOS) have expressed their commitment to ensure the long term
viability of the bi-national rail concession although they have so far failed to live up to their
commitments of December 2007 (Paris meeting with the Concessionaire and Donors) to pay
their arrears to the Concessionaire. Within this context, and supported by the project, the two
governments have commissioned a study to define the optimal Public-Private Partnership
scheme to enable the restructuring of the concession. The study is in its final stage, and it is
expected that under the new framework, the Governments will be responsible for investing in rail
infrastructure.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

46.     The PDOs remain highly relevant. The overall objective of improving the country's
access to regional ports remains a priority for Mali and continues to be pursued throughout the
regional WATTFP supported by the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU)
and the donor's community. Also, the GOM is committed to sustaining all weather access on
transport corridors to its northern regions. Finally, the GOM has expressed its commitment to
preserving and sustaining the Dakar-Bamako railway concession, and is well aware of the
positive impact that a well functioning rail service to Dakar would have on the economy.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.     On the basis of the assessment of what was achieved under the project against the
specific project objectives described below, this Implementation Completion and Results Report
(ICR) rates the overall achievement of the PDOs2 as Moderately Satisfactory.

(i) Enhance international transport through improvement of transport corridors linking
Mali to the coastal countries of West Africa by rail and road respectively. This PDO has two
parts which are listed below.

(a) Improve transport corridors linking Mali to the port of Dakar by rail, (31% of IDA
financing3).

The Rating is Unsatisfactory for the following reasons.

48.    Operational performance of railway did not improve. The project committed
substantial resources to improve rail operations between Dakar and Bamako, and the viability of
the railway concession. In terms of outputs, all planned activities were successfully
implemented. However, most of the performance indicators indicate minor improvements in rail

2
    After project restructuring, the PDOs were not changed, and the related rating was kept as Moderately Satisfactory.

3
    11% for rail infrastructure and 20% for the staff retrenchment plan.


                                                            10
operations, while other indicators have actually declined compared to the baseline situation.
Although the cumulative length of slowdown (duration of speed restrictions) in effect for more
than 90 days on the railway track between Dakar and Bamako has been halved to 121 km
compared to pre-concession situation, it remains significantly short of the end of project target of
no more than 30 km. As per the original target date of end-2007, the average turnaround time for
wagon between Dakar and Bamako had improved to 14 days against an end of project target of
11 days. However, the actual value of the indicator deteriorated once again to 22 days by end of
the project.

49.     The main reasons why the concession's objectives in terms of operational performance
were not achieved are: a) overoptimistic traffic projections at appraisal reflecting a lack of
understanding of the dynamic and the political economy behind the intermodal competition
between road haulers and rail, b) underestimation of the infrastructure investment plan required
to rehabilitate the rail line, and c) the impact of public service obligations on the financial
viability of the concession.

50.     Competitiveness of rail transport has declined. The above mentioned deficiencies in
operational efficiency greatly affect the competitiveness of rail transport between Mali and
Senegal when compared to road transport for dry bulk, containers and petroleum products. In
fact, the share of traffic on the Senegalese rail corridor has decreased from 15 percent in 2001, to
7.8 percent currently. Furthermore, the indicator that measured the level of satisfaction of the 16
biggest clients of TRANSRAIL currently shows that only 25 percent are satisfied with the
service.

(b) Improve transport corridors linking Mali to the coastal countries of West Africa (port of
Abidjan) by road. (57% of IDA financing)

The Rating is Satisfactory for the following reasons.

51.      Mali's road access to West African ports has improved. More specifically:

·     Road condition on the Malian side of the corridor to the port of Abidjan has
      significantly improved. The project has successfully rehabilitated a 154 km section of the
      corridor linking Mali to the ports of Abidjan, Takoradi and Tema. The measured average
      total surface of potholes on the Bamako-Sikasso corridor is 0.35 sq-m per km roads
      compared to a target of less than 5 sq-m per km.

·     Bougouni ­ Sikasso section of same corridor is currently being rehabilitated with the
      support of AfDB and BOAD. As part of the overall program, and in support of WAEMU's
      Programme Routier 1 (PR-I), the BOAD is financing the 57 km section of Bougouni ­
      Koualé. The remaining 151 km section of Koualé ­ Sikasso is financed by the African
      Development Bank. Works on both sections of Bougouni ­ Sikasso are underway and are
      expected to be completed by the first trimester of 2011.

·     The road component of the Bank funded WATTFP will scale up the achievement of the
      TCIP's PDOs. WATTFP's road component will finance the rehabilitation of the 45 km

                                                11
      Sikasso ­ Hérémakono road section, which is part of the road corridor to Ghanaian ports
      through Burkina Faso. Works on that road are expected to be completed by the second
      semester of 2012.

(ii) Sustain accessibility to the Northern region of Mali, one of the poorest regions in the
country. (10% of IDA financing)

The Rating is Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons.

52.     The most deteriorated section of Sévaré-Gao road has been successfully maintained.
The project has successfully maintained the 85 km section between Sévaré and Douentza which
was the most deteriorated section of the road corridor from Sévaré to Gao. A substantial
improvement in average operating speed on Sévaré ­ Gao has been documented (from 60 km/hr
in 2004 to 70 km/hr currently), and the indicator pertaining to the level of price increase of cereal
between Mopti and Gao has shown that increase in prices of cereals in Gao are not superior to
the increase in Mopti (Sévaré), except for rice.

53.    As agreed during project restructuring, GOM has kept the remaining sections of
Sévaré-Gao road in passable condition. Since 2007, the Road Maintenance Fund, under its
annual program, has provided a total of FCFA3.4 billion in maintenance financing for the Sévaré
­ Gao road. Technical audits have shown that maintenance works on that section have been
performed satisfactorily, and the actual average surface of potholes is about 35 sq-m per km
compared to 200 sq-m per km in 2005.

3.3 Efficiency

54.     Improved operational efficiencies. Efficiency improvements in the institutional reforms
supported by the project have not been measured in economic terms (cost-effectiveness/least
cost), but in terms of gains in procedural, process and service efficiency. With the creation of
AGEROUTE, efficiency increases have been achieved in the awarding, supervision, and payment
of Road Fund contracts, and in production of technical and financial audits. Now that the Road
Data Service (SDR) is operational, the efficiency gains in the programming of the Annual Road
Maintenance Program can be sustained.

Summary of the Economic Evaluation

55.     The table below presents the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and the Net
Present Value (NPV) calculated ex-ante and ex-post for the two sub-sectors supported by the
project and the costs of each sub-sector at completion.




                                                 12
                        Table 2: Results of the Economic Evaluation
                             Roads              Roads       Railway               Railway
                           (ex-ante)          (ex-post)    (ex-ante)              (ex-post)
 EIRR                         27.0%             18.0%            N.A.              22.5%

 NPV in FCFA
                               16.3                 5.2           58.2               9.5
 billion
 Total cost (in US$
                               32.5              50.5             5.0                5.5
 million)

56.    The overall EIRR for the project was calculated as a weighted average of the EIRRs of
the two sub-sectors at 18.4 percent.

57.     Periodic maintenance of Sévaré-Gao road. Only 85 km between Sévaré and Douentza
were maintained under the project instead of the 407 km originally planned on the 558 km long
Sévaré-Gao corridor. While the costs rose by 32 percent from the estimate available at appraisal,
the traffic more than doubled on the whole Sévaré-Douentza road, which corresponds to a traffic
growth 50 percent higher than projected. Overall, these countervailing effects led to a NPV of
FCFA0.83 billion and an EIRR of 17.9 percent, in contrast with the 22.7 percent appraised
EIRR. It is worth noting that if the traffic growth had not been higher than projected, the NPV
would have been negative at minus CFAF20 million and the EIRR would have dropped to 11.9
percent.

58.      The remaining 473 km portion of Sévaré-Gao road was subject to routine maintenance.
The economic analysis of the maintenance works on Douentza-Gossi and Gossi-Gao sections
yields opposite conclusions: for Douentza-Gossi section, the NPV and the EIRR are respectively
of FCFA0.06 billion and 13.3 percent; for Gossi-Gao section, the NPV is negative at minus
FCFA0.08 billion and the EIRR is calculated at 10.6 percent, as a result of a 16 percent decrease
in traffic between 2002 and 2009 on this section. However, maintaining Sévaré-Gao road is
critical to ensure connectivity between Bamako and the Extreme North/North East of Mali. This
is an additional benefit which is not taken into account in the economic model.

59.      Rehabilitation of the Bamako-Bougouni road. The large increase in the costs of
Bamako ­ Bougouni road works, which almost doubled from the original estimate of about
FCFA10.7 billion to the final amount of about FCFA19.0 billion, had an important impact the
results of the economic analysis performed at appraisal. Furthermore, while traffic rose slightly
faster than projected near Bougouni, it decreased by 14 percent at 22 km from Bamako. As a
result, the NPV of the works on the first section became negative at minus FCFA0.8 billion with
an EIRR of 5.4 percent. The other EIRRs were initially large enough so that in the end they
remained above 12 percent, namely the related works were still economically justified. The
overall NPV for the rehabilitation of the Bamako-Bougouni road was calculated at FCFA4.4
billion with an EIRR of 18.1 percent, compared to an appraised value of FCFA12.0 billion with
an EIRR of 31.8 percent.


                                               13
60.     Railway. The retrenchment plan for the RCFM is likely to have resulted in savings of
public payroll with a large decrease in the number of rail workers. However, its impact was not
quantified due to the lack of adequate data to quantify impacts.

61.     Furthermore, the estimated total benefits to be generated by an operating and
rehabilitated railway network in comparison with a situation in which all the traffic has to be
carried by road are equal to FCFA158.2 billion over a 20 years period. These benefits are derived
from economic savings on fuel expenditures, reduction of road maintenance costs, reduction of
CO2 emissions as well as a reduction of the average transport costs. The EIRR is calculated at
22.5 percent and the NPV at FCFA9.5 billion.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The Rating is Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons.

62.    First, significant progress was achieved in improving Mali's access to the ports of
Abidjan, Takoradi and Tema (Accra) through the rehabilitation of Bamako ­ Bougouni road.

63.     Second, with regards to sustaining and improving access to Mali's north eastern region,
the project achieved its revised objective of rehabilitating the most critical 85 km section of the
558 km Sévaré ­ Gao road. As agreed during the project restructuring, the GOM provided
adequate maintenance funding to maintain a reasonable Level of Service (LOS) on the remaining
Douentza ­ Gao section of the Sévaré ­ Gao road. This has enabled to keep the whole section in
a good or passable condition. Economic analysis points to a satisfactory ex-post EIRR on the
project investments.

64.     Nevertheless, third, although all of the activities funded under the project to support the
TRANSRAIL concession were successfully implemented, the sustainability of the railway
corridor to Dakar remains at risk due to the fact that the Governments of Mali and Senegal have
not fully lived up to their commitments vis-à-vis the concession.

3.5 Other Outcomes and Impacts

65.     Social impact. The project has made tangible contributions to social issues such as
employment, and health which in turn are likely to have contributed to poverty reduction. More
specifically, the social impact of the project includes the creation of an estimated 350 jobs for
temporary unskilled workers on Bamako-Bougouni and Sévaré-Gao road works. Furthermore,
the Advisory Unit for the redeployment of Rail workers (CARCHEM) has helped mitigate the
redundancy of the railway workers by assisting them with training, entrepreneurship
development, and helping 124 laid-off workers find a permanent job or an economic activity.
CARCHEM also helped manage the social tensions resulting from the redundancy by providing
a venue for retrenched workers to express their views about the proposed mitigating measures.
Finally, the project has also contributed to keeping the critical Gao region connected to the rest
of the country.




                                                14
66.    Impact on the environment. The project has had a positive environmental impact. This
is because thanks to the road works funded under the project, modern environmental standards
and guidelines were developed and applied to mitigate environmental impacts. These are now
more systematically included in most road work contracts implemented throughout Mali.
Furthermore, the project supported the training of the environmental staff of the transport
agencies to more regularly and effectively monitor environmental mitigation measures on road
works contracts. Finally, the project supported the environmental cleanup of the TRANSRAIL's
workshops at Korofina and Kayes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

67.    This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating is Substantial.

68.     Sector financing. The budget allocation to the recently created Roads Authority, which
is in charge of the maintenance of the road network, has increased substantially from FCFA7.3
billion in 2005 to FCFA18.5 billion in 2010 and is planned to reach nearly FCFA20 billion by
2012. Although this a positive development to ensure the more effective management of the
road network, which the project contributed to, these allocations still do not fully cover the
maintenance funding needs (estimated at FCFA30billion for the classified road network as of
2012) for the road network, and other sources of finance need to be secured.

69.     Axle load control. Despite the construction of weigh stations and the adoption of an axle
load control plan by the GOM, overloading remains a major challenge especially on the intra and
inter regional road transport corridors due to weak enforcement both at the national and regional
level. Considering the potential negative impact on pavement life of overloading, this means that
the design life of the road sections rehabilitated under the project may not be achieved. This is
because numerous studies have indicated that overloading can reduce pavement design life by up
to 5 years.

70.    Collapse of TRANSRAIL concession. The financial situation of the bi-national
company that manages the Dakar ­ Bamako rail concession has deteriorated mainly due to: (a)
the lack of payments of arrears due by GOM and GOS to the concessionaire; and (b)
TRANSRAIL's inability to effectively compete with road haulage. As a result of this, the
company has been placed under "Réglement Préventif", which is equivalent to chapter 11 status
in the US. If the financial situation of the concession does not rapidly improve, TRANSRAIL
could be liquidated within a short timeframe. If this occurs, it would negatively impact the about
US$15 million provided under the project to the TRANSRAIL concession.

71.     Roadblocks and other NTBs. Although road access to the ports of Abidjan, Takoradi
and Tema (Accra) has been greatly improved by the project, the efficient use of these corridors is
still hampered by unfavorable operating environment for transport and transit due to the
existence of NTBs such as road blocks and slow customs clearance procedures at the borders.

                                               15
According to a West Africa Hub Trade sponsored survey in 2006/2007, the loss of time is
estimated at about eight hours per 1,000 km on the Ouagadougou ­ Bamako ­ Tema Corridor.
This reduces the economic value of road infrastructure.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

   (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

72.     Preparation. The project was well anchored in the GOM's transport sector policies, it
was consistent with Bank's CAS of July 31, 2003, and built on the achievements of the PST1.
The project was also seen as a transitional operation setting the stage for larger and more
comprehensive PST2 (Cr.4303-MLI), which was in its initial stages of preparation, and was
intended to consolidate reforms initiated under the PST1 by addressing outstanding issues within
the sector. The project was prepared and appraised relatively quickly (17 months), and in a
difficult context given the urgency to intervene on a continuously deteriorating road network,
and the need to mitigate the impacts of the crisis in Côte d'Ivoire on port access of Mali, a
landlocked country.

73.     Cost assessment. The cost estimates that were used during preparation failed to properly
assess the costs of the road works component funded under the project. The costs of the planned
rehabilitation/periodic works of the two roads to be maintained under the project turned out to be
substantially underestimated. The weak cost estimation was the result of the following factors:
(a) inadequate assessment of the impact that the increase in oil prices had on the civil works
market in terms of unit cost for road works; (b) lack of due diligence from consultants in the
preparation of costs estimates; and (c) lack of realism and due diligence from the bank team and
DNR in vetting the accuracy of cost estimates for the road works.

74.     Procurement. The project preparation process adequately assessed the procurement
capacity of the MET in general and in particular at the DNR. Major weaknesses were identified
relative to: (a) the preparation and quality of bidding documents; (b) filing of procurement
documents; and (c) contract management. An action plan was prepared including the
recommendation that staff within implementing agencies receive procurement training prior to
their involvement in the procurement process related to the project. However, the action plan was
not fully implemented and most of the DNR staff was not trained in Bank's procurement
procedures prior to project's effectiveness. Staff training in procurement was critical since major
procurement activities were expected to start immediately after project's approval.

75.     Inadequate funding for the rail component. Given the ambitious rail related PDO (and
indicators) that was geared towards improving operational performance of the concession
railway system through infrastructure rehabilitation, the US$15 million investment in the rail
component turned out to be insufficient to achieve the desired outcome. Furthermore, more than
65 percent of this funding was earmarked to finance the retrenchment plan of the former RCFM,

                                                16
leaving only about US$5 million to fund part of the about US$60 million equivalent short-term
TRANSRAIL capital investment program, which in turn was not fully funded by the other
development partners despite their original commitments.

76.    Inconsistencies between project documents. The consistency of the description and
scope of the road maintenance component in the project documents was poor. The PAD offers
two inconsistent descriptions of the scope of works of Sévaré-Gao road: (a) Periodic
maintenance of the 558 km section of the road between Sévaré and Gao (Page 11), and (b)
Periodic maintenance of 200 km of the most deteriorated sections on the 558 km road between
Sévaré and Gao; and Maintenance of Sections of Sévaré ­ Gao not subject to Periodic
maintenance (358 km) (page 38). Meanwhile, the DCA mentions the Periodic maintenance of
Sévaré ­ Gao on the length of approximately 407 km (page 20, schedule2).

   (b) Quality of Supervision

Rating is Satisfactory.

77.    During supervision, major implementation issues arose partly due to inadequate
procurement capacity within the DNR, and cumbersome Bank procurement procedures. In order
to address those issues, the team assisted the GOM in the implementation of an action plan to
improve procurement capacity within DNR, which was charge of implementing the roads
component. The team's efforts were eventually met with a substantial improvement in
implementation disbursement rate of the project.

78.     The supervision team mounted regular relatively well staffed supervision mission
throughout the implementation of the project. In particular, it provided valuable technical
assistance on the Dakar-Bamako railway concession through the input of its railway experts and
sharing of relevant international experience such IDA experiences with the concessioning of
other sub-Saharan-Africa railway systems.

79.     The project was also instrumental in facilitating the setting up of AGEROUTE, the new
roads agency tasked with the implementation of the annual maintenance program, and several
road works on behalf of the Ministry. AGEROUTE has procured and supervised the works for
the entire annual maintenance program between 2006 and 2009. The technical audit reports of
the maintenance program found AGEROUTE's overall performance to be satisfactory.

80.     The team faced a minor restructuring of the project in 2007, which was adequately
substantiated and effectively carried out. The team subsequently managed to improve
disbursement and commitment rates and obtained a one year extension of the closing date to
bring the project to completion.

81.     The project missed the following opportunities during project implementation: (a)
restructure the project at least a year earlier than it was done, in light of the difficulties
encountered with cost overruns; (b) revise the performance indicators of the project to reflect the
reduction in scope of the road component; and (c) revise the PDO in light of reduction in scope,
and lack of adequate financing to ensure success of the rail component.

                                                17
   (c)   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

82.     Supervision was satisfactory despite minor shortcomings, while quality at entry was
moderately unsatisfactory mainly because of cost overruns resulting from weak cost estimation
during preparation, greatly affected the smooth implementation of the project. The rating of
overall bank performance is the combination of a moderately unsatisfactory rating for quality at
entry and a satisfactory rating for supervision. Given the moderately satisfactory outcome of the
project, the moderately satisfactory rating for overall bank performance is justified, as per the
ICR guidelines.

   (d)   Government Performance

Overall Rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

83.     GOM's performance during preparation was moderately unsatisfactory. The project
was prepared in consultation with all the donors and in conformity with the Government's letter
of policy and strategy for the transport sector. Thanks to the proactivity and ownership of GOM,
the project was prepared in a relatively short time frame. However, there were significant
shortcomings from GOM in largely underestimating the costs of the road works component.
Also, the assessment of the level of funding allocated to the rail concession was not sufficient to
address some of the major operational and structural issues that affected its overall viability.

84.   GOM's performance during implementation was satisfactory for the following
reasons:

85.     The GOM took measures to ensure that reforms initiated under PST1 were made
permanent and sustained. More specifically, GOM took the following steps during
implementation to that effect: (a) force account for road maintenance was phased out despite
some initial delays; (b) the DNR was restructured to improve its efficiency in its role of
maintaining and sustaining the road network; (c) an independent road fund was established for
the financing of road maintenance; (d) the road data service (SDR) was created, staffed and
equipped to carry out the programming of road maintenance; and (c) a road agency
(AGEROUTE) was established to supervise the execution of annual road maintenance programs
and other road works on behalf of the GOM.

86.     During the implementation of the project, GOM made substantial progress towards the
establishment of a second generation road fund by significantly increasing the budget of the
Road Fund (Roads Authority) from FCFA7.3 billion in 2005 to FCFA16.5 billion in 2009.
Furthermore, user fees were made to represent 70 percent of that budget in 2009 following a
substantial increase in fuel levy from FCFA3/liter to FCFA25/liter. This significant progress in
the financing of road maintenance will be beneficial to the long term sustainability of the two
major roads financed under the project, and for the entire classified road network.



                                                18
87.    The GOM has made sustained efforts to ensuring the proper implementation of social and
environmental aspects of TCIP: (a) relocation of people affected by road works was carried out
in conformity with Bank's OP.4.12; and (b) environmental mitigation measures were identified
and properly implemented by contractors as stipulated in bidding documents.

88.     Implementation shortcomings from GOM were: (a) significant delays in effectiveness;
and (b) delays in mobilizing counterpart funding.

      ·     Significant delays in effectiveness. After board approval in March of 2004, the project
            took 6 months to become effective, well beyond the 120 days deadline after the signature
            of the DCA. The delay in effectiveness was due to the following reasons: (a) delays in the
            ratification of the project and financing agreements; (b) delays in the appointment of a
            consultant for the preparation of the project implementation manual; (c) delays in the
            opening of the project's account and the deposit of the initial amount; and (d) delays in
            the signing of the subsidiary grant and loan agreements by the Government and
            TRANSRAIL.
      ·     Counterpart funding. Although all counterpart funds for TCIP have been mobilized,
            ensuring their timely availability was a recurrent challenge during implementation. This
            has slightly affected the smooth implementation of the project.

      (e)   Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Overall Rating is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

89.         Performance of DNR was moderately unsatisfactory for the following reasons:

90.   During preparation, DNR was partly responsible for the weak cost assessment of the road
component mainly due to a lack of due diligence in the quality control of bidding documents.

91.    Furthermore, the significant delays in procurement of works of the road component were
largely due to the lack of capacity at DNR, especially in implementing post-qualification
procedures for works contracts. More specifically: (a) difficulties in the elaboration of clear and
easily assessable post-qualification conditions in bidding documents; (b) poor quality of bid
evaluation reports; and (c) delays in the approval of evaluation reports: 3 months for Bamako-
Bougouni due to numerous internal and IDA rejections of the report. Severe delays were also
recorded in the selection of firms for the supervision of works mainly because of the weak
capacity of DNR in the evaluation of bids. It took more than 16 months to select a consulting
firm for the supervision of works for the Bamako-Bougouni road and almost two years to
procure a contractor to execute the works. The consultant/contractor selection/procurement
process for the Sévaré-Gao road works took about two years to be completed.

92.     However, DNR's performance in terms of social and environmental safeguards was
satisfactory and its strong commitment to collaborating with the DNACPN and the coordination
unit was commended and documented in aide memoires.




                                                   19
93.     UNC was effective in its role of coordinating more than 10 stakeholders, and was
instrumental in ensuring quality of procurement documents, especially given the initial
procurement deficiencies of the DNR. UNC was strengthened with an environmental, and a
monitoring and evaluation specialists. The additional capacities were instrumental in achieving
the results of the project.

94.     TRANSRAIL's overall performance was moderately satisfactory. At the onset of the
concession, TRANSRAIL's management failed to adequately communicate with all of the
stakeholders involved in the concession. Data on the company's financial and operational
performance was not made readily available, and supervision highlighted the need for
TRANSRAIL to improve that situation. Furthermore, the social climate within TRANSRAIL
was quite tense and management did very little to improve it. In 2006, the management team of
TRANSRAIL was replaced following a change in the principal shareholder of TRANSRAIL. By
2008, and despite the difficulties faced by the concession, TRANSRAIL had managed to
significantly improve the average number of trains per month from 33 to 37 between 2007 and
2009, and social tensions within the company had subsided.

   (f) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

95.    Assessment of overall Borrower's performance is based on the combination of its
performance during preparation, implementation, and its achievements in the reform agenda of
the Transport sector. Project preparation and implementation were moderately satisfactory
despite shortcomings on the part GOM, especially with regards to its overall commitments
towards the rail concession. GOM has made substantial advances in the reform agenda of the
transport sector which are likely to help sustain the project's outcomes.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     What follows are some of the key lessons that were learned from implementing the
project. Most of those lessons are relative to Quality at Entry.

97.     Simplified project design and scope. The project included support to the Dakar-
Bamako rail concession. The railway component of the project was supposed to fund part of the
staff retrenchment costs and part of the US$65 million capital investment program for the
concession. The balance of the capital investment program was supposed to have been funded by
the concessionaire; another IDA funded transport project in Senegal and other development
partners. This meant that by adding the railway component to the project it not only increased its
complexity, but did not fully achieve the objectives of the railway component due to the fact that
the project funded only a relatively small slice of a complex bi-national support package to the
concession. In this case, the lesson learned is that the scope of future transport sector projects
should be simplified and should avoid including `add on' complex activities like support to a
railway concession. Concession type of operations should be handled under adequately funded
stand alone projects, or if they are regional in nature, within the context of a regional project.
Thus, in the future to continue supporting the TRANSRAIL concession, a regional project

                                               20
involving an intermodal connection (rail-road) with the Ouagadougou ­ Abidjan rail corridor
(SITARAIL) could be considered.

98.     More limited and achievable PDOs. PDOs should be kept simple and modest to the
extent possible. PDOs should be realistic in terms of achievements and should only encompass
impacts that are consistent with the level of financing and activities directly supported by the
project. Although it provided valuable support to the rail concession, TCIP's rail component was
not adequately funded to achieve the PDO of improving Mali's access to the port of Dakar by
rail.

99.     Greater implementation readiness to ensure Quality at Entry. A high level of due
diligence is required from both the GOM and the Bank side to ensure quality at entry. This is to
ensure that the project is well designed and ready to be implemented which in turn is likely to
provide for smooth project implementation. In particular, capacity of implementing agencies
must be thoroughly assessed during the appraisal of projects with special attention given to
procurement capacity for civil works. Furthermore, delays between when engineering studies are
conducted and works commence should be minimized in order to avoid scope of road works
becoming obsolete. That is mainly because the combined effect of a rainy season and traffic
often accelerate road deterioration. This significantly increases the cost of works, and hence
causes major costs overruns.

100. More realistic cost estimates for civil works. Consultants tasked with engineering
studies for road works should perform a thorough price market study in order to produce realistic
cost estimates. DNR should also keep a data base to study the trends in unit costs of major inputs
required for road works on a regular basis. This should definitely benefit the accuracy of costs
estimates.

101. Realism of M&E framework. The data monitored under the M&E framework should
be attributable to what the project can realistically achieve. Most of projects key indicators partly
depended on progress that was not attributable to the project's inputs/outputs/outcomes.

102. Strong implementation framework. The decision to maintain UNC as the coordinating
unit for the project proved effective in facilitating both project preparation and implementation.
The UNC had already effectively coordinated the preparation and implementation of the PST
operation. The mandate of UNC to coordinate rather than manage implementation proved to be
sound and its institutional set-up as an independent unit proved very effective. Results achieved
under TCIP were in part due to the UNC's proven coordinating expertise and institutional
independence.

103. Ownership of safeguards by Borrower can set the stage for mainstreaming. The
project has helped build a strong commitment toward safeguards compliance, which in turn has
led to systematic inclusion of safeguards in all road contracts in Mali.

104. The following lessons learned from 15 years of rail concessioning in Sub Saharan Africa
(SSA) are particularly relevant to the Dakar-Bamako rail concession.



                                                 21
105. Overestimation of the serviceable freight markets. In most SSA concessions, traffic
gains have been much lower than expected because road competition has been fiercer than
planned. Projections are usually predicated upon a momentous modal shift from road to rail that
neither recognizes the ability of road haulers to sustain intermodal competition (as shown from
the experience gathered from rail concessions over the last 15 years) nor factors in the political
economy created by already well established and financed truck lobbies. Governments often fail
to understand the need to provide a level plain field for rail/road competition with road users not
being expected to pay for much of the road infrastructure investment and maintenance costs
whereas railways operators were saddled with their full costs.

106. Underestimation of investment needs. Investment plans for infrastructure rehabilitation
have focused only on the first five years of the concession. They have ignored long term needs
that have proven to be much larger than anticipated as both Governments and private operators,
at the concession bidding stage, have downplayed the depreciated state of rail infrastructure.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(NA)




                                                22
                   Annex 1. Project and Program Costs and Financing


              (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)­
                                    Appraisal
                                                                     Percentage of
           Components               Estimate         Actual
                                                                       Appraisal
A. Railway Component
  A.1 Social and compensation plan        10.24             9.85            96%
  A.2 Support to the concession            4.99             5.47           110%
B. Road maintenance Component             32.48            32.14            99%
C. Project Management                      0.92             0.97           107%
                 Total Project Cost       48.63            48.72          100.2%

                  (b) Program Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal                         Percentage of
            Components                                   Actual
                                       Estimate                           Appraisal
A. Railway Component
  A.1 Social and compensation plan         13.47             17.98          133%
  A.2 Support to the concession            43.33             40.04           92%
B. Road maintenance Component              73.56              78.5          107%
C. Project Management                       1.15               0.97          84%
               Total Program Cost        131.51            137.49           105%


            (c) Program Financing by Source of Funds (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage
                Source of Funds                 Estimate      Estimate          of
                                                                            Appraisal
Borrower / Recipient                              18.30          29.49        161%
French Development Agency                         25.10           2.60         10%
IDA (Credit)                                      32.80          31.77         97%
IDA (Grant)                                       15.90          16.95        107%
Borrowing Agency                                   0.71           6.43        919%
West African Development Bank                     17.60          22.27        127%
African Development Bank                          16.00          22.00        138%
Foreign Multilateral Institutions                  5.10           5.98        117%
TOTAL                                            131. 51        137.49        105%




                                          23
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(a) Component A: Railway. (Total actual cost of US$58.02; IDA US$15.32 million.)

1.      Subcomponent A1: Social and compensation plan. This subcomponent was executed
as planned. It was supposed to finance the mitigation of the impact of the concessioning of rail
services on retrenched staff. 618 retrenched staffs from the old Malian Railway Company
(RCFM) have been compensated by the Government using funds provided by the project. 124
retrenched staffs were able to find either a job or another economic activity after participating in
a job training program financed by the project. The Government has put in place a guarantee
fund in a Malian commercial bank, which has financed 7 projects initiated by former RCFM
staff. The fund is still in operation and is managed by the Advisory Unit for the redeployment of
Rail workers (CARCHEM).

2.     Subcomponent A2: Infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization. This
subcomponent was executed as planned. Inputs for the rehabilitation of 21 km of tracks in the
Malian section of the corridors were purchased. Works are financed by the West African
Development Bank (BOAD). Also, two locomotives have been rehabilitated by the project, and
spare parts have been purchased. Environmental remediation works have been satisfactorily
executed at both railway shops of Korofina in Bamako, and Kayes.

3.     Subcomponent A3: Institutional Support. This subcomponent was executed as
planned and provided technical advisory for the first audit of the railway concession scheduled
during the third year of the concession in the concession agreement, and support to the
committee appointed to monitor implementation of the concession and compliance with the
concession agreement.

(b) Component B: Road Maintenance. (Total actual cost of US$78.5, IDA US$32.14 million,
    GOM US$18 million, AfDB US$22 million, BOAD US$6.4 million.)

4.      Subcomponent B1: Periodic Maintenance of road network. A total of 239 km of roads
were maintained / rehabilitated by the project for a total cost of US$50.5 million (including
counterpart funding and retroactive financing from the West Africa Transport and Transit
Facilitation Project (WATTFP)), compared to an initial cost of US$32.5 million.

5.      Subcomponent B2: Institutional Support. The following activities were satisfactorily
completed: (i) technical advisory services for impact monitoring. Equipment was acquired to
benefit the Transport Observatory for the monitoring of indicators to measure the performance of
the project; (ii) technical advisory services, equipment and training to support implementation of
road sector reforms and strengthening of the local road construction industry; and (iii)
environmental and social impact assessment of road maintenance, and strengthening of the
capacity of the Road Agency to implement environmental and social mitigation action plans.




                                                24
(c) Component C: Project Management. (Total actual cost IDA US$0.97 million)

6.       This subcomponent provided as planned, technical assistance to the project coordination
unit for fiduciary aspects of project coordination, and technical audits of works carried out under
the rail and road components. This subcomponent also financed the operating cost of the project
coordination unit.




                                                25
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                          (including assumptions in the analysis)

Summary of the Economic Evaluation

1.      The table below presents the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and the Net
Present Value (NPV) calculated ex-ante and ex-post for the two sub-sectors supported by the
project and the costs of each sub-sector at completion.

                       Table 1: Results of the Economic Evaluation
                             Roads            Roads         Railway           Railway
                           (ex-ante)        (ex-post)       (ex-ante)         (ex-post)
 EIRR                       27.0%            18.0%            N.A.             22.5%

 NPV in FCFA
                             16.3                5.2          58.2              9.5
 billion
 Total cost (in US$
                             32.5             50.5             5.0              5.5
 million)

2.     The overall EIRR for the project was calculated as a weighted average of the EIRRs of
the two sub-sectors at 18.4 percent.

(a) Road Component

         Table 2: Changes in Vehicle Traffic on Selected Roads after Maintenance




                                            26
                              Average Annual          Average Annual
           Road               Daily Traffic in        Daily Traffic in           Difference
                                   2002                    2009
 Bamako ­ Bougouni
 KP 24, Sanankoroba                 1,351                  1,165                14% decrease
 KP 69,
                                     782                    925                 18% increase
 Ouéléssébougou
 Sévaré-Gao
 Sévaré - Douentza                   142                    294                107% increase
 Douentza-Gossi                      74                     88                  19% increase
 Gossi-Gao                           77                     65                  16% decrease


3.      Methodology. The economic analysis of the completed road rehabilitation works on
Bamako-Bougouni (completed in 2008) and Sévaré-Gao (completed in 2010) was carried out by
incorporating parameters' actual values in the Highway Development and Management (HDM-
4) models developed at appraisal. This approach enabled to fully compare the ex-ante and ex-
post situations and to identify the factors that caused the EIRRs to differ from the originally
projected values. As typically in HDM-4, the EIRRs were calculated by assessing the economic
benefits generated by savings in vehicle operating costs in comparison with the investment and
maintenance costs.

4.      Assumptions. The following assumptions were made: (i) adoption of two alternatives
(without project / with project); (ii) simulation over a 20-year period starting in 2003; and (iii) a
discount rate of 12 percent, in particular for the Net Present Values (NPVs) calculations. Road
condition on Bamako-Bougouni and Sévaré-Gao roads was assessed in 2009 by International
Roughness Index (IRI) measurement. Road traffic data from six different campaigns (twice a
year in 2007, 2008 and 2009) were used.

5.     Periodic maintenance on Sévaré-Gao road. Only 85 km between Sévaré and Douentza
were maintained under the project instead of the 407 km originally planned on the 558 km long
Sévaré-Gao corridor. However, as part of the project restructuring, the GOM committed to
ensure an acceptable level of service on the remaining sections of Sévaré-Gao road through the
provision of annual maintenance.

6.      Regarding the 85 km section between Sévaré and Douentza rehabilitated under the
project, the option selected and implemented entailed the broadening of the road width. While
the costs rose by 32 percent from the estimate available at appraisal, the traffic more than
doubled on the whole Sévaré-Douentza road, which corresponds to a traffic growth 50 percent
faster than projected. Overall, these countervailing effects lead to a NPV of FCFA830 million
and an EIRR of 17.9 percent, in contrast with the 22.7 percent appraised EIRR. It is worth noting


                                                 27
that if the traffic growth had not been higher than projected, the NPV would have been negative
at minus FCFA20 million for an EIRR of 11.9 percent.

7.      The remaining 473 km portion of Sévaré-Gao road was subject to routine maintenance.
For 2007, 2008 and 2009, such works for a total amount of FCFA2.5 billion were executed and
helped to improve road condition, reducing the average IRI from 5.8 in 2002 to 5.2 in 2009. On
Douentza-Gossi section, traffic rose by 19 percent between 2002 and 2009, in contrast with the
90 percent growth associated with the originally planned works. On Gossi-Gao section, traffic
growth failed to materialize, with even a 16 percent decrease between 2002 and 2009. The
economic analysis of the maintenance works on these two sections yields opposite conclusions:
for Douentza-Gossi section, the NPV and the EIRR are respectively of FCFA60 million and 13.3
percent; for Gossi-Gao section, the NPV is negative at minus FCFA80 million and the EIRR is
calculated at 10.6 percent. However, maintaining Sévaré-Gao road is of critical importance to
ensure connectivity between Bamako and the Extreme North/North East of Mali. This is an
additional benefit which is not taken into account in the economic model.

8.       Rehabilitation of the Bamako-Bougouni road. The large increase in the costs of
Bamako ­ Bougouni road works, which almost doubled from the original estimate of about
FCFA10.7 billion to the final amount of about FCFA19.0 billion, had an important impact the
results of the economic analysis performed at appraisal. Furthermore, while traffic rose slightly
faster than projected near Bougouni, it decreased by 14 percent at 22 km from Bamako. As a
result, the NPV of the works on the first section became negative at minus FCFA824 million
with an EIRR of 5.4 percent. The other EIRRs were initially large enough so that in the end they
remained above 12 percent, namely the related works were still economically justified. The
results are summarized in the following table.

 Table 3: Results of the Economic Evaluation of the Bamako-Bougouni road rehabilitation
                                                                Ex-ante NPV     Ex-post NPV
                                  Ex-ante           Ex-post
          Section                                                 (FCFA           (FCFA
                                   EIRR              EIRR
                                                                  billion)        billion)
Section A (KP 0 to junction
                                   16.6%             5.4%            0.3             -0.8
       towards Sénou)
Section B (Junction to Sénou
                                   55.3%            35.9%            4.2             2.6
      to Sanankoroba)
 Section C (Sanankoroba to
                                   35.1%            21.4%            3.5             1.6
      Ouéléssébougou)
Section D (Ouéléssébougou
                                   26.2%            13.4%            4.0             1.0
        to Bougouni)
            Total                  31.8%            18.1%           12.0             4.4

(b)    Rail component

1.     Financial analysis

9.     TRANSAIL's financial situation has deteriorated mainly due to: (i) the lack of payments
of arrears due by GOM and GOS to the concessionaire; and (ii) TRANSRAIL's inability to

                                               28
effectively compete with road haulage. In contrast with the originally projected investment plan
of FCFA30 billion (about US$60 million equivalent) to be executed from 2004 to 2008, only
FCFA18.3 billion (about US$37 million equivalent) have been actually implemented. As a
consequence, TRANSRAIL has reached a traffic capacity limit, and its revenues have stagnated.
In turn, its inability to generate profits has precluded the internal financing of part of the
investment plan. Table 4 shows the current financial figures of TRANSRAIL, compared to the
projected figures at appraisal for the project implementation period. Table 5 summarizes the
financing sources of TRANSRAIL's investment program.




 Table 4: Financial Figures for Transrail Ex-post vs. Figures at Appraisal (FCFA million)
Year                             2004          2005              2006           2007           2008          2009
                                 Ex-Post       Ex-Post        Ex-Post       Ex-Post            Ex-Post       Ex-Post
                               (Appraised)   (Appraised)    (Appraised)   (Appraised)        (Appraised)   (Appraised)

Income Statement Items
                                 19083         18264          17475            18307           17965         18157
Revenues
                                (23827)       (26218)        (27724)          (28883)         (30264)       (31953)
                                 20049         17880          18562            17535           19760         18107
Operating Expenses
                                (15881)       (17462)        (17453)          (17265)         (18326)       (18976)
                                   -966          384           -1087             773            -1795           50
Operating Income
                                 (7946)        (8755)        (10271)          (11618)         (11939)       (12978)
                                  -1231         -994           -8061            1245            -1611         -2302
Net Income
                                 (4749)        (5573)         (6568)           (7575)          (7654)        (6840)
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a % of        -5.1          2.1            -6.2              4.2           -10.0          0.3
Revenue                          (33.3)        (33.4)         (37.1)            (40.2)         (39.4)        (40.6)
                                  -6.5          -5.4          -46.1              6.8            -9.0         -12.7
Net Income as a % of Revenue
                                 (19.9)        (21.2)         (23.7)            (26.2)         (25.3)        (21.4)
                                  2.15         16.23            0               28.09           4.88         15.25
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
                                 (9.47)        (4.29)        (22.68)           (16.31)         (7.24)        (0.91)
Source: TRANSRAIL 2010

           Table 5: Actual Investments - Infrastructure Rehabilitation (million FCFA)
Year                            2004         2005          2006         2007        2008          2009        Total
IDA Cr. 2617                     957          -             -            -              -           -          957
IDA Cr. 3869                     75          737           924          295            154          9         2,194

                                                    29
IDA Cr. (Senegal)                   404          0          3,447     928           80         0        4,860
BOAD Loan (Mali)                    205          0           798      946          992        386       3,327
BOAD (Mali, Senegal)                 -           -            -        -           597       1,391      1,988
AFD Loan                            630         574           -        -             -         -        1,204
ACDI Loan                            -          800           -        -             -         -         800
TRANSRAIL                          488*        489*         489*     489*         489*       489*       2,933
Total                              2,759       2,600        5,658    2,658        2,312      2,275      18,263
Source: TRANSRAIL 2010; *actual annual internally financed investment figures were not available

10.    Traffic stagnation remains an obstacle to TRANSRAIL's financial performance
improvement. The partial implementation of the original investment plan has only permitted to
maintain 2004 traffic levels in contrast with the 79 percent traffic increase between 2004 and
2009 that should have resulted from its full execution.




                Table 6: Traffic Forecast at Appraisal vs. Actual Traffic (000 tons)
Year                    2004           2005           2006             2007            2008             2009
                       Actual         Actual         Actual           Actual          Actual           Actual
                     (Appraised)    (Appraised)    (Appraised)      (Appraised)     (Appraised)      (Appraised)
                                                       136              158             149              144
Containers
                         (110)         (121)          (127)            (133)           (140)            (147)
                                                        18                8               7                5
Cotton
                         (80)           (96)           (98)            (100)           (102)            (104)
                                                        48               26              62               55
Attapulgite
                         (107)         (109)          (111)            (112)           (114)            (116)
                                                        55               68              33               52
Fertilizers
                         (45)           (50)           (50)             (55)            (60)             (70)
                                                        11               41              42               25
Cereals
                         (40)           (45)           (50)             (52)            (55)             (60)
                                                        27              21.5             13                5
Fuel Products
                         (56)          (112)          (118)            (123)           (127)            (130)
                                                        79              65.5             73              105
Others
                         (154)         (149)          (167)            (168)           (177)            (182)
                          307           347            310              346             298              308
International
                         (592)         (682)          (715)            (743)           (775)            (809)
                          172           167             64               42              81               83
National
                          (49)          (49)           (49)             (49)            (49)             (49)
                          479           514            374              388             379              391
Total
                         (641)         (731)          (764)            (792)           (824)            (858)
Source: TRANSRAIL 2010

                      Table 7: Key Performance Indicators of TRANSRAIL
 Year                                                   2006            2007              2008           2009


                                                       30
 Traffic Units (in millions)                       381          416          371          387
 Average tariff (FCFA/tkm)                          29           37           35           35
 Number of employees (end of each year)           1544         1489         1480         1427
 Traffic revenue/employee (FCFA million)          11.3         12.3         12.1         12.7
 Productivity (Traffic Unit/employee)            246,534      255,649      257,194      266,744
Source: TRANSRAIL 2010

2.     Economic analysis

Approach of the economic analysis

11.      The economic analysis is performed by comparing the situation with and without the
investment plan. The latter is analyzed as a cohesive whole in which it is not possible to
segregate the specific contribution of each funding. The economic return of each project or each
donor's intervention is the one of the whole plan. As at appraisal, it is assumed that, without the
investment plan, the railway would have discontinued its operations and collapsed in 2008. As a
result, traffic until then carried by rail would have been transferred to road transport.


12.     In addition, the project impact must not only be analyzed from a financial or economic
perspective but also from a social point of view. Many remote areas in the Kayes region have no
access to all-weather roads and are therefore depending on the operational railway network.

13.    In order to calculate the economic savings generated by an operating railway network
compared to road transportation, the analysis focuses on the 1,233 km Bamako-Dakar
corridor.

Economic assumptions

14.    Evaluation period and economic life. To capture all the significant costs and benefits, the
economic life of the total railway investments (the major component of the project) has been
defined conservatively and was assumed to be 20 years.

15.    Discount Rate. The interest rate applied to calculate the discounted economic return is 12
percent.

16.     Exchange Rate. An exchange rate of FCFA500 for US$1 is assumed for calculation
purpose.
17.     With/without investment plan assumptions. In line with the assumption that the railway
would have ceased operations in 2008, the benefits are calculated starting in 2007 for reduced
traffic (minus 50 percent) to reflect the gradual decrease in traffic before the collapse of the
railway. From 2008 on, rail traffic actual figures and projections are used to estimate benefits.

18.    Traffic. As a base case scenario, no traffic growth is assumed. This is in line with the
minimum level of investment projected to be implemented which will only enable TRANSRAIL
to maintain the 2009 traffic levels.

                                                31
Identification and description of project costs and benefits

Investment plan cost

19.     Out of the original FCFA30 billion (about US$60 million equivalent) investment plan,
FCFA11.7 billion (about US$23 million equivalent) are left to be implemented. However, this
amount is regarded as insufficient to maintain the 2009 traffic level over the next 15 years of the
analysis period. For this reason, an additional FCFA30 billion capital expenditures plan is
projected to be executed from 2011 to 2015. The investment schedule is set forth in Table 8
below.
             Table 8: TRANSRAIL's Investment Plan Schedule (FCFA billion)
 Year                       2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 TOTAL
  Investment expenditures   2.8   2.6   5.7    2.7   2.3      2.3    3.1    5.0   8.0   12.5   8.0   5.0     60.0




Remedies to sustain the concession

20.    Due to the amount of TRANSRAIL's accumulated losses, there is an obligation for the
company to be recapitalized in the very near future. This is assumed to be implemented in 2010
for an estimated cost of FCFA5 billion (about US$10 million equivalent). Furthermore, no
improvement of TRANSRAIL's financial situation is conservatively assumed. As a consequence
and due to public service obligation, GOS and GOM will need to subsidize the concession from
2011 onward. The subsidy is conservatively estimated at FCFA2 billion (about US$4 million
equivalent), which is slightly higher than TRANSRAIL's average annual loss of FCFA1.8 billion
(about US$3.6 million equivalent) over the past 6 years.

Benefits

21.    The expected direct economic benefits are economic savings on fuel expenditures, a
reduction of road maintenance costs, the reduction of CO2 emissions as well as a reduction of
the average transport costs. Table 9 summarizes the major costs and benefits considered for the
analysis.

        Table 9: Summary of Project Costs and Benefits Considered for the Analysis
                                    Costs                                            Benefits
                                                                    · Economic savings on fuel expenditure
                    · Rehabilitation and upgrade of railway
                      infrastructure                                · Reduction of road maintenance costs
 Quantifiable
                    · Rehabilitation of existing and
                                                                    · Reduction of CO2 emissions costs
                      acquisition of new rolling stock
                                                                    · Reduction of average transport costs due to


                                                         32
                    lower tariffs

                  · More reliable access to markets

                  · Reduction of fatal accidents (particularly
Intangible
                    related to hazardous material transported by
                    road)




             33
22.       Table 10 below summarizes the basic assumptions regarding the model's key variables:


            Table 10: Basic Assumptions for the Calculation of the Economic Return
Variable                                                          Assumption
Distance of the section subject to intermodal competition         1,233 km
Total traffic to be carried by rail in ton-kilometer              10.5 billion tkm
Diesel price excluding taxes in Bamako                            396 FCFA /liter
                                                                  Rail: 0.01810 liter/tkm
Diesel consumption per ton-kilometer
                                                                  Road: 0.03034 liter/tkm
                                                                  Rail: 48.4 grams/tkm
CO2 emissions per ton-kilometer
                                                                  Road: 81.0 grams/tkm
CO2 emission costs per ton                                        US$28/ton i.e. FCFA14,000 /ton
Average rail tariff                                               FCFA35/tkm
Average tariff savings rail compared to road                      20%
                                                                  Rail: 20%
Fuel cost share of the total costs of the tariff
                                                                  Road: 25%
                                                                  Current: FCFA3,000,000/km
Annual regular road maintenance costs per kilometer
                                                                  Without railway: FCFA4,000,000/km
Current periodic road maintenance costs per kilometer             FCFA75,000,000/km
Full road rehabilitation costs per kilometer                      FCFA110,000,000/km


Fuel savings

23.     The basic assumption for the calculation of fuel savings is based on the fact that, with the
implemented investment plan, the railway share of the overall traffic volume did not switch to
the road. The main variables are as follows:

      ·   Projected railway traffic volume subject to intermodal competition: TRANSRAIL's
          projected overall tonnage (TKM)

      ·   The price for diesel fuel in Bamako (FCFA per liter diesel)

      ·   Diesel consumption of trucks and railway (L/TKM)


          Fuel savings = $/L * TKM * (L/TKMroad - L/TKMrail)

                             = FCFA396/l * 10.5 billion tkm* (0.03034 liter/tkm - 0.01810 liter/tkm)

                             = FCFA50.8 billion




                                                        34
CO2 emission cost savings

24.      The basic variables for the calculation of the CO2 emission cost savings are the amount
of CO2 produced per ton-kilometer by rail compared to the amount of CO2 produced by road
traffic as well as the current price per emitted ton of CO2:

      ·   Projected railway traffic volume subject to intermodal competition: TRANSRAIL's
          projected overall tonnage (TKM)

      ·   Tons of CO2 produced per ton-kilometer (T/TKM)

      ·   Price per emitted ton of CO2 (FCFA/T)

          CO2 emission cost savings = FCFA/T * TKM * (T/KMroad - T/TKMrail)

                                       = FCFA14,000/t * 10.5 billion tkm * (81.0 grams/tkm - 48.4
                                          grams/tkm) *10-6

                                       = FCFA5.2 billion

Transport cost savings

25.     For the estimation of the generated tariff savings only the reported rail and road tariffs
were taken into account. The positive effects of the existence of intermodal competition between
rail and road on the tariff levels are not considered in the calculation. The following variables are
taken into account for the estimation of the transport cost savings:

      · Projected railway traffic volume subject to intermodal competition: TRANSRAIL's
        projected overall tonnage (TKM)

      · Average tariffs for road and railway (FCFA/TKM)

      · Share of fuel costs on the total price to be covered by the tariff in percent (F)


          Transport costs savings = TKM * (FCFA/TKMroad * (1-F)road - FCFA/TKMrail * (1-F)rail )

                                  = 10.5 billion tkm * (FCFA42/tkm * 75% - FCFA35/tkm * 80%)

                                  = FCFA36.7 billion

Savings on road maintenance costs

26.       The estimated savings on road maintenance costs are based on the following variables:


                                                  35
    ·    Distance of the section subject to intermodal competition (KM)
    ·    Estimated road maintenance costs with and without railway ($/KM)4
         Road maintenance cost savings = KM * ($norail/KM - $rail/KM)

                                                 = 1,233 km * (FCFA255 million/km ­ FCFA202
                                             million/km)
                                                           = FCFA65.5 billion

Discussion of the economic impact generated by Component 1

27.    Based on the four factors mentioned above, the estimated total benefits to be generated
by an operating and rehabilitated railway network are equal to FCFA158.2 billion over a 20
years period (see Table 11 below).

28.  The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is calculated at 22.5 percent and the NPV at
FCFA9.5 billion (see Table 11 below).




4
  The estimated road maintenance cost for the current road and transport volumes is CFAF 250 billion over a 17.5
years period (CFAF 3,000,000/km for annual regular maintenance and two periodic maintenances for CFAF
75,000,000/km). If the total projected volume transported by rail has to switch to the road this figure is expected to
increase to CFAF 314 billion (CFAF 4,000,000/km for annual regular maintenance, one periodic maintenance for
CFAF 75,000,000/km and one full rehabilitation for CFAF 110,000,000/km).


                                                         36
                  Table 11: Economic Return of TRANSRAIL's Infrastructure Investment Plan (FCFA billion)
Year                            2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 TOTAL
Annual fuel savings               0    0    0 1.5 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9                     50.8
Annual savings in CO2
                                  0    0    0 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3                      5.2
emission costs
Annual average transport cost
                                  0    0    0 1.0 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1                     36.7
savings compared to road
Annual reduction of road
                                  0    0    0 1.2 3.5 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8                     65.5
maintenance costs
Total benefits                    0    0    0 3.8 8.8 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 9.1 158.2
Total infrastructure investment 2.8 2.6 5.7 2.7 2.3 2.3 3.2 5.0 8.0 12.5 8.0 5.0 0                 0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0   60.0
Recapitalization cost             0    0    0    0    0    0 5.0 0        0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    0    5.0
Annual subsidy                    0    0    0    0    0    0    0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0                 28.0
Total costs                      2.8 2.6 5.7 2.7 2.3 2.3 8.2 7.0 10.0 14.5 10.0 7.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0                   93.0
Economic return
                                -2.8 -2.3 -4.5 0.8 4.1 3.9 0.5 0.9 -0.4 -1.9 -0.3 0.6 1.8 1.6 1.5 1.3 1.2 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7                  9.5
(discounted at 12%)
EIRR                         22.5%

Source: World Bank, 2010




                                                                      37
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Jean-Noel Guillossou         Senior Transport Specialist            SASDT
Yvette Laure Djachechi       Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
Abdelghani Inal              Consultant, Highway Engineer           AFTTR
John Buursink                Consultant, Environmental Specialist   AFTEN
Cheick Traore                Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Karim Jacques Budin          Consultant, Sr. Railway Specialist     AFTTR
Nestor Coffi                 Senior Financial Management Spec.      AFTFM
Zakariae Cherkaoui           Intern                                 AFTTR
Hans Wabnitz                 Senior Counsel                         LEGAF
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham       Sector Manager                         AFTTR
Wolfgang Chadab              Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC
Mahine Diop                  Senior Municipal Engineer              AFTUW
Renee Desclaux               Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC
Mohi Uz Zaman Quazi          Senior Transport Engineer              SASDT
Jocelyne Do Sacramento       Operations Analyst                     AFTTR
Sameena Dost                 Senior Counsel                         LEGES
Supervision/ICR
 Itchi Gnon Ayindo           Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
 Salamata Bal                Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
 Pierre Yves Bot             Consultant                             AFTTR
 Nestor Coffi                Senior Financial Management Spec.      AFTFM
 Maria Concepcion J. Cruz    Lead Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
 William Dakpo               Procurement Specialist                 AFTPC
 Mamadou Diarrassouba        Monitoring & Evaluation Spec.          AFTRL
 Mahine Diop                 Senior Municipal Engineer              AFTUW
 Ibou Diouf                  Senior Transport Specialist            AFTTR
 Yvette Laure Djachechi      Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
 Jocelyne O. Do Sacramento   Operations Analyst                     AFTTR
 Papa Mamadou Fall           Transport Specialist                   AFTTR
 Maimouna Mbow Fam           Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Olivier Marcel Murru         Intern                                 AFTTR
 Jean-Noel Guillossou        Lead Transport Economist               SASDT
 Siaba Guindo                Driver                                 AFMML
 Amadou Konare               Senior Environmental Specialist        AFTEN
 Alain L. Labeau             Consultant                             AFTTR

                                             37
Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo   Program Coordinator             AFTTR
Siélé Silué                Senior Transport Specialist      EASIN
Rokhayatou Sarr Samb       Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Felly Kaboyo               Operations Analyst              AFTTR
Fily Bouare Sissoko        Senior Operations Officer       AFMML
Aoua Toure Sow             Program Assistant               AFMML
Cheick Traore              Senior Procurement Specialist   AFTPC




                                           38
(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                        USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)

Lending
  FY03                                                             76.72
  FY04                                                             51.60
                          Total:                                  128.32

Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                             18.79
  FY05                                                             60.70
  FY06                                   30.51                    130.05
  FY07                                   24.37                    114.18
  FY08                                   10.57                     72.45
  FY09                                   19.50                     82.99
  FY10                                   28.96                     72.52
                          Total:        149.77                    551.68




                                       39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
               (NA)




                40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                      (NA)




                      41
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


    MINISTERE DE L'EQUIPEMENT
        ET DES TRANSPORTS                            REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
           -----------------------                  Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
UNITE NATIONALE DE COORDINATION                            ----------------
           -----------------------




               PROJET D'AMELIORATION DES CORRIDORS
                        DE TRANSPORT (PACT)

                            Rapport d'Achèvement




                                 Mars 2010




                                     42
   I.   Préface : Identification du Projet
NOM du PROJET                     Projet d'Amélioration des Corridors de Transport (PACT)
Numéro du Crédit                  3869 ­ MLI
Numéro du Don                     H075-MLI
Date d'Approbation                11/03/2004
Date de Démarrage                 16/09/2004
Date du 1er décaissement          03/06/2005
Date de Clôture                   31/12/2009
Coût du Projet                    31,3 milliards de FCFA
   Montant du Crédit IDA          17,7 milliards de FCFA
   Montant du Don                 8, 6 milliards de FCFA
   Montant du GRM                 5,0 milliards de FCFA
Organes d'Exécution               Composante routière : Direction Nationale des Routes (DNR) et
                                  Composante ferroviaire : TRANSRAIL-SA, CARCHEM et OSAF

  II.   CONTEXTE

A l'achèvement du Projet Sectoriel des Transports (PST) au 31 décembre 2004, il subsistait des
besoins importants de financement pour améliorer l'état des infrastructures de transports
nécessitant une intervention urgente, notamment les routes Sévaré-Gao, Bamako-Bougouni et
certains tronçons de la voie ferrée Bamako-Diboli.
Le Gouvernement du Mali s'est ainsi engagé avec l'appui des partenaires financiers dans la
préparation du Projet d'Amélioration des Corridors de Transports (PACT), en attendant la
préparation et la mise en oeuvre du second Projet Sectoriel des Transports.

III.    CADRE LOGIQUE DU PROJET
Hiérarchie des    Indicateurs de performance                   Stratégie de collecte   Hypothèses
objectifs                                                      des données             critiques
Objectifs         Indicateurs sectoriels                       Rapports sur le
sectoriels                                                     secteur/pays
Infrastructures   Les routes reliant Bamako aux frontières     Banque de données       Pas de baise
publiques         avec le Burkina ­ Faso et la Cote            routières, Enquêtes     dramatique des
adéquates         d'Ivoire sont praticables et en bon état :   comparatives entre      prix sur le
                  la surface totale des nids de poule ne       Bamako ­ Bougouni et    marché
                  dépasse pas 5m2 par km depuis la revue       Sikasso - Zegoua        international
                  à mi-parcours jusqu'à l'achèvement du                                (coton) stabilité
                  projet                                                               politique
                  La route reliant Bamako à Gao est            Banque de données
                  praticable et en bon état : la surface       routières
                  totale des nids de poule ne dépasse pas
                  20m2 par km depuis le revue à mi-
                  parcours jusqu'à l'achèvement du projet
                  La longueur cumulée des tronçons où un       Rapports annuels du
                  ralentissement existe pendant plus de 90     concessionnaire
                  jours sur la voie ferrée entre Dakar et
                  Bamako ne doit pas dépasser 30 km au
                  31/12/2007

                                                  43
Améliorer la          Amélioration de la durée de rotation des    Rapports opérationnels    Pluviométrie
compétitivité des     wagons entre Dakar et Bamako : 14           trimestriels du           normale
corridors routiers    jours en 2007 (plus de 20 jours en 2002).   concessionnaire           Pas de
et ferroviaire vers   Part du total des échanges internationaux   Rapports annuels sur      catastrophe
les ports de la       du Mali passant par le couloir ferroviaire  les statistiques de       naturelle
côte Ouest            reliant Bamako à Dakar atteint 25% en       l'Observatoire du         (sécheresse)
d'Afrique             2007 (15% en 2001)                          Transport
                                                                  Rapport annuel du
                                                                  concessionnaire
                      Niveau de satisfaction des clients de Enquêtes par
                      Transrail : 75% des 16 plus gros clients consultants
                      de Transrail sont satisfaits à partir de
                      2006
Maintien de           La hausse des prix des céréales dans la Enquêtes annuelles par        Pluviométrie
l'accessibilité des   région de Gao est moins forte que dans consultants                    normale
régions               la région de Mopti, par rapport aux prix
septentrionales du    de référence de 2001, toutes choses étant
pays                  égales par ailleurs au 30/06/2008
                      L'accès à Gao est maintenu pendant Enquêtes par
                      toute la durée du projet : la vitesse consultants, basées sur
                      moyenne n'est pas inférieure à 65 km/h la méthode Source
                      entre la revue à mi ­ parcours et la fin du
                      projet
Amélioration de       Objectif 1                                  Déclarations des audits
la performance de     Redevance de concession : les valeurs financiers du
la compagnie de       objectives sont contenues dans l'accord concessionnaire
chemin de fer         de crédit
                      Objectif 2                                  Rapport de la cellule
                      Nombre d'agents licenciés de la RCFM d'Appui à la
                      ayant suivi une formation financée par le Réinsertion des
                      projet                                      Cheminots
                      Nombre d' d'agents licenciés de la
                      RCFM ayant retrouvé une activité
                      économique ou ayant démarré une Rapport de la cellule
                      affaire personnelle                         d'Appui à la
                                                                  Réinsertion des
                                                                  Cheminots
Préservation des      Objectif 1                                  Rapports final des        Système
routes Bamako ­       Bamako ­ Bougouni :154 km de routes consultants contrôlant            d'entretien
Bougouni et           entretenues à l'achèvement du projet        les travaux               efficace
Sévaré ­ Gao                                                                                (financement
                                                                                            suffisant,
                                                                                            capacité de mise
                                                                                            en oeuvre)




                                                      44
                     Objectif 2                           Rapport final des          Contrôle effectif
                     Sévaré ­ Gao :407 km de routes consultants contrôlant           de la surcharge
                     entretenues à l'achèvement du projet les travaux                des camions
                                                                                     coupures de
                                                                                     route
                                                                                     n'augmentant pas
                                                                                     en nombre
A. Composante
   ferroviaire
A.1. Plan social     13,2 millions US$                     Rapports de l'auditeur    Climat social
et d'atténuation                                           externe                   maintenu calme
                                                                                     après départs
A.2.                 0,3 millions US$                      Rapports de la cellule
Réhabilitation et                                          d'Appui à la
modernisation                                              Réinsertion des
des                                                        Cheminots
infrastructures      41,3 millions US$                     (CARCHEM)                 Entretien régulier
                                                                                     de la voie après
Appui social,        1,9 million US$                       Rapport du                les travaux
environnemental                                            concessionnaire           complémentaires.
et institutionnel                                          Rapport de l'expert       Bonne pratiques
dans les travaux                                           social et                 de gestion du
de génie civil                                             environnemental de        concessionnaire
                                                           l'unité de coordination
                                                           du projet
A. Composante        71,7 millions US$                     Rapports                  Mobilisation des
     routière                                              d'avancement du           fonds de
B.1. Travaux de                                            consultant contrôle les   contrepartie et
génie civil                                                travaux                   des taxes.
B.2. Appui social,                                         Audit technique et        Bonne qualité
environnemental                                            financier annuel          des travaux
et institutionnel                                          Rapport de l'expert
                     1,3 millions US$                      social et
                                                           environnemental de
                                                           l'unité de coordination
                                                           du projet
   B. Gestion        1,2 millions US$                      Rapports
  du projet                                                d'avancement
                                                           trimestriels et annuels
                                                           Rapport annuel d'audit
                                                           de l'auditeur externe

 IV.     OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
Les objectifs spécifiques du PACT sont :
    ¾ un appui à la mise en concession des activités ferroviaires entre Dakar et Bamako, y
compris le financement du plan social et des réhabilitations nécessaires de la voie ferrée ;
    ¾ la réhabilitation des infrastructures routières en vue d'offrir des services satisfaisants sur
les routes Bamako - Frontière de la Côte d'Ivoire et Bamako ­ Gao ;


                                                45
   ¾ le renforcement des acquis résultant des réformes opérées dans le cadre du PST (création
du Service des Données Routières, de l'Observatoire des Transports, de l'Autorité Routière et de
l'AGEROUTE).

    V.   Cadre Institutionnel

·     La Cellule de Coordination du PACT (CCPACT) a assuré le suivi de l'exécution et la
      coordination de la mise en oeuvre du projet, ainsi que la gestion administrative et financière ;
·     TRANSRAIL-SA est l'agence d'exécution de la composante ferroviaire du PACT dans le
      cadre de la concession des activités ferroviaires sur l'axe Bamako ­ Dakar.
·     CARCHEM/MALI, une structure autonome ad hoc, chargée initialement de concevoir,
      mettre en oeuvre les mesures d'accompagnement du plan social.

VI.      Composantes du Projet


6.1      Composante A : Composante Ferroviaire
Cette Composante a essentiellement pour but d'apporter un appui au concessionnaire
TRANSRAIL-SA. Le financement accordé au concessionnaire est complété par l'intervention
d'autres partenaires (ACDI, BOAD, AFD) pour un montant global de 30 703 millions de FCFA.
L'objectif principal du programme est de remettre en bon état de fonctionnement la voie ferrée
de l'axe Dakar Bamako ainsi que les locomotives et wagons nécessaires pour assurer la
régularité du transport en toute sécurité. Les objectifs spécifiques sont entre autres (i) réduire de
façon significative, voire supprimer à terme, les déraillements ; (ii) faire passer la vitesse
moyenne des trains de 25 à 45 km/h après l'exécution de l'ensemble des travaux ; (iii) pouvoir
expédier plus d'un train par jour dans chaque sens sur l'axe ; et (iv) contribuer au
désenclavement de la région de Kayes.

6.1.1    Financement Banque mondiale Mali (PACT) : 2 800 000 DTS

Le Prêt IDA 3869/MLI a servi à acquérir des outillages matériels roulants, des pièces de
rechange pour la remise en état de deux locomotives et diverses pièces de rechange pour
wagons, une bonne partie des intrants pour les travaux de renouvellement de voie au Mali. Il
importe de noter que la contribution du projet a permis à Transrail-s.a. de maintenir un parc utile
de 13 locomotives et 555 wagons avec des taux de disponibilité respectifs de 75% et 87%.

6.1.2 Crédit IDA 3869/MLI (PACT) ­ don de 450.000 DTS rétrocédé à TRANSRAIL

Dans le cadre du PACT, la Banque mondiale a accordé au Gouvernement du Mali un
financement de 450 000 de droits de tirages spéciaux (soit 320 millions de FCFA), que ce dernier
a accepté de rétrocéder à TRANSRAIL pour financer « la réalisation de travaux, l'acquisition
de matériels et équipements et la fourniture de services de conseil à caractère technique pour
atténuer la dégradation de l'environnement dus aux opérations ferroviaires avant la date de
concession ».Transrail a signé en janvier 2006 une convention de maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée


                                                  46
avec l'AGETIPE pour la mise en oeuvre de ce projet aux ateliers de Korofina (Bamako) et de
Kayes. Le montant total de la convention et avenants est de 304 412 000 FCFA.




                                           47
6.1.3 CONCESSION DE L'ACTIVITE FERROVIAIRE

Les Etats du Sénégal et du Mali ont procédé à la mise en concession de l'Activité Ferroviaire
compte tenu de la dégradation persistante des deux réseaux ferrés (RCFM, SNCS). Une
convention de concession a été signée le 23 septembre 2003 et la concession a démarré le 1er
octobre 2003. L'objectif visé et qui figure dans la convention de concession était la prise en
charge de tous les investissements relatifs aussi bien aux matériels qu'aux infrastructures. Les
Etats ont à cet effet rétrocédé au concessionnaire tous les prêts contractés et disponibles. Il a été
cependant constaté des lenteurs dans la mobilisation de ces financements ainsi que
l'impossibilité pour le concessionnaire d'obtenir de nouveaux financements pour les
infrastructures. Cette situation a entravé la remise en état satisfaisante du matériel et de la voie
pour permettre la relance du trafic dans des conditions satisfaisantes.
Plusieurs réunions de concertations ont été organisées, finalement une réunion s'est tenue à Paris
en présence des Partenaires Techniques et Financiers. Cette réunion a permis de constater entre
autres l'impossibilité pour le concessionnaire de mobiliser le volume très important de
financement que nécessite la réhabilitation de la voie.
Face aux engagements pris de part et d'autre dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de la convention,
il a été constaté :
     a) l'incapacité du concessionnaire de mobiliser les ressources pour réaliser les
         investissements initialement prévus en dehors des financements rétrocédés ;
     b) l'instabilité de l'actionnariat de référence ;
     c) la non libération des actions souscrites ;
     d) le non respect de plusieurs engagements par les deux parties
     e) un climat social malsain ;
     f) l'incapacité total du Concessionnaire à faire face à ses engagements financiers,
         notamment le paiement régulier des redevances de Concession, des échéances du prix de
         cession du matériel roulant et des frais financiers relatifs aux emprunts rétrocédés.
     g) le constat par toutes les parties de l'impossibilité pour le concessionnaire d'obtenir des
         Partenaires Techniques et Financiers un volume de prêt susceptible de faire face à
         l'importance des investissements dans le domaine des infrastructures.

Néanmoins des efforts importants ont été déployés par l'Etat pour acquérir du matériel neuf pour
un montant d'environ 14 milliards de FCFA, qui a été mis à la disposition du concessionnaire.
La société Transrail-sa est actuellement placée sous le régime du règlement préventif.
Lors de la réunion de concertation de l'Autorité Concédante tenue les 5 et 6 juin 2008 à
Bamako, il a été décidé de réaliser une Etude Institutionnelle pour déterminer le meilleur cadre
de partenariat public privé permettant aux Etats de financer ou de participer au financement des
infrastructures ferroviaires. Une réunion prévue à Dakar les 11 et 12 mai 2010 doit permettre le
choix définitif de l'option institutionnelle adoptée.




                                                 48
6.1.4   CARCHEM

a.      Indemnités de licenciement
Conformément aux engagements pris, le Gouvernement a procédé à la mise en place des fonds
pour le paiement des indemnités dues au personnel déflaté, ce qui a permis de préserver la paix
sociale et permettre au concessionnaire de démarrer ses opérations dans le calme et la sécurité. A
cet effet le Gouvernement a mis en place un montant de 5 267 millions de FCFA. Par ailleurs, le
Gouvernement a également financé les droits des agents nés d'une nouvelle loi portant l'âge de
la retraite de 55 à 58 ans pour un montant de 2 952 millions de FCFA. Le montant total des
dépenses effectuées s'élève à 8 219 milliards de FCFA.
b.      Mesures facilitant la réinsertion du personnel en sureffectif
La Cellule d'Appui à la Réinsertion des Cheminots du Mali (CARCHEM/MALI) a été mise en
place pour gérer ce plan social d'action. Elle a été chargée initialement de concevoir, de mettre
en place, d'organiser, de gérer et de suivre les mesures d'accompagnement du plan social
d'action (information sensibilisation, renforcement des capacités, réemploi, création de petits
projets, reconversion des déflatés, etc.). Les résultats obtenus sont les suivants :
·       Le programme d'appui aux adhérents à travers l'adhésion des déflatés à la
CARCHEM/MALI a permis l'adhésion, au 29 Octobre 2007, de 393 agents sur les 618 déflatés,
soit un taux d'adhésion d'environ 63,58% ;
·       L'information et la sensibilisation des déflatés, le recensement d'organisations de déflatés
existantes ont conduit à la création de 17 GIE ou Sociétés ;
·       Le renforcement des capacités a porté sur la formation 325 adhérents sur 13 modules et
·       La recherche d'un nouvel emploi salarié a permis de réaliser 17 stages de qualification.

La CARCHEM a été mise en place en 2004 avec un retard d'environ une année. Cette situation a
favorisé l'utilisation des indemnités à des activités non productives (construction de maisons,
achats de véhicules et autres).
Un financement complémentaire d'un montant de 140 millions alloué par l'Etat a été placé dans
une banque pour servir de garantie aux prêts sollicités par les agents pour financer des
entreprises personnelles. Le détail figure ci-dessous.

c.      Difficultés rencontrées pour la réinsertion des travailleurs déflatés :
·       Profils inadéquats pour le marché de l'emploi ;
·       Inexistence de diplômes académiques ;
·       Age très avancé des agents concernés ;
·       Difficultés pour les agents de payer les frais de constitution des dossiers
·       Et les apports personnels pour accéder à des financements.

d.      situation du financement de la carchem
·           Financement alloué dans le cadre du PST1 en 2004 : 128 millions de FCFA ;
·           Situation du financement alloué à la CARCHEM à partir de 2005 (PACT) :




                                                 49
Désignation                       IDA           ETAT              Total
Appui à la réinsertion       11,635,360       2,908,840       14,544,200
Salaire                      55,586,160      40,701,535       96,287,695
Fonctionnement               31,906,559      53,722,693       85,629,252
Equipement                    3,520,000         880,000        4,400,000
Formation                    46,894,060      15,863,542       62,757,602
Suivi-évaluation              4,478,320       1,119,580        5,597,900
Total                       154,020,459     115,196,190      269,216,649




6.2     Composante B : Composante routière


6.2.1   Travaux d'Entretien Périodique

          a. Travaux de la route Bamako-Bougouni
Les travaux d'entretien de la route Bamako ­ Bougouni sont terminés et le paiement du reliquat
de 1,776 milliards de FCFA du fonds IDA programmé sur les ressources du Projet Régional de
Facilitation des Transports et du Transit en Afrique de l'Ouest (PRFTTAO) a été effectué le 15
mai 2009.

Il a été décidé de réduire le linéaire des travaux initialement prévus sur la route Sévaré-Gao de
405 km à 85 km répartis comme suit : (i) une tranche ferme de 25 km financée sur le crédit IDA,
(ii) une tranche ferme de 60 km financée par le budget d'Etat. Une partie du gap de financement
des travaux de la route Bamako ­ Bougouni a pu ainsi être couverte et payée pour un montant de
5 400 millions de FCFA.

          b. Travaux de la route Sévaré-Gao
Suite à l'infructuosité du premier appel d'offres relatif aux travaux de la route et des délais de
relance, l'aggravation des dégradations a rendu nécessaire la mise en oeuvre d'une étude
d'actualisation du DAO et la restructuration de l'Accord de Crédit pour réduire de manière
importante la masse des travaux initialement prévus.
Les travaux d'entretien périodique du tronçon Sévaré ­ Douentza de la route Sévaré ­ Gao ont
porté sur :
· Tranche ferme N°1 : marché n°1045/DGMP-2008 pour un montant de 2 606,250 millions de
FCFA TTC et une durée d'exécution de 12 mois, financé à 80% par l'IDA et à 20% sur le budget
national ; longueur : 25 km ;
· Tranche ferme N°2 : marché n°1044/DGMP-2008 pour un montant de 3 978,750 millions de
FCFA TTC et une durée d'exécution de 12 mois, financé à 100% sur le budget national ;
longueur : 60 km.



                                               50
Le Gouvernement fait assurer le maintien en bon état de la route Bamako ­ Sévaré. Le
Gouvernement prendra les dispositions pour poursuivre l'entretien du tronçon restant en
attendant l'acquisition du financement des travaux. Il envisage une fois les travaux réalisés de
soumettre la route à l'entretien par niveau de service (Génis / route bitumée).


6.2.2 Sécurité routière
Pour renforcer la sécurité routière, le Gouvernement a créé un organisme spécifiquement dédié à
la lutte contre l'insécurité routière dénommé Agence Nationale de la Sécurité Routière
(ANASER).

6.2.3 Financement de l'entretien routier

Le financement de l'entretien routier a enregistré une évolution notable en 2009. En effet le
Gouvernement a accepté le principe du relèvement du taux de la redevance d'usage routier sur
les produits pétroliers (arrêté interministériel N°09/1145/MEF-MET-SG du 15 mai 2009),
portant le taux de la redevance d'usage routier sur les carburants de 3 FCFA par litre à 25 FCFA
par litre.
Ainsi, les ressources propres de l'Autorité Routière au titre de l'exercice s'élèvent à 12 milliards
de FCFA soit 72,39% du budget et celles de l'Etat 4,576 milliards de FCFA (27,61%).
En fin décembre 2009, il apparaît que les ressources propres de l'Autorité Routière représentent
77,99% des réalisations contre seulement 7,19% pour les ressources du budget d'Etat et 14,82%
de ressources diverses, ce qui améliore de manière notable la disponibilité des ressources pour
financer l'entretien routier.


Situation du Budget de l'Autorité Routière au 31/12/2009
Rubriques budgétaires                                 Montant (millions de FCFA)
I. Ressources Propres                                 Prévisions    Réalisations
Redevance d'usage routier sur les produits pétroliers      7 000        9 762,790
Redevance d'usage routier sur la charge à l'essieu           800          413,020
Redevance postes de péage / pesage                         2 300        2 119,779
Recettes programme de vérification des importations        1 900                0
II. Ressources de l'Etat
Subvention BSI                                             4 500        1 094,879
Subventions aux organismes Publics                        76,281           38,141
III. Ressources Extraordinaire
Report de credit                                                        2 337,116
TOTAL                                                 16 576,281      15 765,725
      Source : Autorité Routière


6.2.4 Péage/pesage

                                                51
Le Gouvernement a élaboré en collaboration avec l'Union Européenne un programme de
réalisation de postes de pesage/péage qui permettront d'assurer la collecte de ressources propres
supplémentaires au profit de l'Autorité Routière, et d'assurer une meilleure protection du
patrimoine routier par les contrôles de la charge à l'essieu.




                                               52
6.2.5 Appui aux nouvelles structures issues des réformes
Le PACT a apporté des appuis aux nouvelles structures créées par les réformes entreprises dans
le cadre du PST1. Il s'agit du Service des Données Routières, de l'Observatoire des Transports et
de l'AGEROUTE.

Actuellement l'AGEROUTE assure la passation des marchés pour l'exécution de l'entretien
routier. Elle intervient également dans le cadre de conventions de maîtrise d'ouvrage déléguée
(MOD) pour la mise en oeuvre de plusieurs projets co-financés par les Partenaires Techniques et
Financiers et le Gouvernement.


6.3     Composante C Gestion du Projet
Avant le démarrage du projet, un plan cadre pour le déplacement et la réinstallation des
personnes affectées par les travaux du PACT a été élaboré, diffusé et appliqué : (i) à l'occasion
des travaux de la section urbaine de la route Bamako ­ Bougouni et (ii) les travaux de la section
urbaine (tranche ferme 1) de la route Sévaré - Douentza.
Par ailleurs, les plans de gestion environnementale et sociale (PCGES) ont été élaborés et mis en
oeuvre sur les deux chantiers y compris les mesures de lutte contre le VIH.
EVALUATION DE LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET

Les résultats des activités menées dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre des différentes composantes
du projet sont résumés dans le tableau ci-après.

Tableau : Résultats des activités de mise en oeuvre du projet
 Résultats d'activités par composante
Composante A : Composante Ferroviaire
Sous            - Mise en place d'une Cellule d'Appui à la Réinsertion des Cheminots du Mali
composante           (CARCHEM/MALI) pour gérer ce plan social d'action.
A1 : Plan       - Programme d'appui aux adhérents à travers l'adhésion des déflatés à la
social               CARCHEM/MALI a permis l'adhésion, au 29 Octobre 2007, de 393 agents sur les
                     618 déflatés, soit un taux d'adhésion d'environ 63,58% ;
                - Création de 17 GIE ou Sociétés pour le recensement d'organisations de déflatés
                     existantes leur Information et leur sensibilisation
                - Formation 325 adhérents sur 13 modules dans le cadre du renforcement des
                     capacités
                - 17 stages de qualification dans le cadre de la recherche d'un nouvel emploi salarié
                     pour les déflatés.
Sous-           - Acquisition d'outillages et de machineries pour l'équipement de ses ateliers afin
Composante           d'assurer la réhabilitation et l'entretien du matériel roulant ;
A2 :            - Acquisition d'équipements de la voie ferrée et le renouvellement de la voie ferrée ;
Réhabilitation - Réalisation de l'étude de caractérisation environnementale de l'axe ferroviaire
et                   Dakar-Bamako
modernisation - Acquisition des rails traverses qui devaient améliorer la vitesse commerciale et la
des                  sécurité sur certains tronçons et leur déposition le long des rails
infrastructures - Non exécution des travaux de réhabilitation

                                                  53
                - Démantèlement des infrastructures des voies de services du réseau malien pour
                  rétablir, les zones détruites de la voie principale du réseau concédé, lors des
                  déraillements ;
Sous-           - Tenue d'une réunion tenue à Paris des 7 et 8 décembre 2006 avec pour résultats
composante        l'élaboré une feuille de route dont la mise en oeuvre devrait assainir la situation de
A3 : Appui        la société.
institutionnel - Tenue d'une deuxième des partenaires à Paris, les 6 et 7 décembre 2007 pour
                  évaluer l'état d'avancement de la Concession.
                - Services de conseil technique lors du premier audit de la concession et suivi de
                  l'exécution de la concession et son respect de la convention de concession
Composante B : Composante routière
Sous            - Exécution des travaux d'Entretien Périodique de la route Bamako-Bougouni
composante     - Exécution des travaux d'entretien périodique du tronçon Sévaré ­ Douentza de la
B1 : Entretien    route Sévaré ­ Gao (Tranche ferme)
périodique du - Relèvement du taux de la redevance d'usage routier sur les produits pétroliers.
réseau routier
Sous            - Assistance et équipement au Service des Données Routières : pour près de
Composante        44 400 000 FCFA ;
B2 : Appui      - Assistance à l'Observatoire des Transports pour améliorer sa capacité de produire
institutionnel    les statistiques, notamment l'annuaire statistique des transports par la fournir
                  d'ordinateurs et de copieurs notamment
                - Dans le cadre de la mise en place de l'AGEROUTE : (i) élaboration des manuels
                  de procédures ; (ii) acquisition de véhicules et de matériels ; et (iii) sélection du
                  personnel-clé.
Composante C : Gestion du projet
                - Coordination et suivi des activités du PACT conduite par la Cellule de
                   Coordination ;
                - Assistance à l'Organe de Suivi de la concession (OSAF) portant sur :
                - Audit de matérialité des dépenses de TRANSRAIL qui a été commuée en audit de
                   la gestion globale du Concessionnaire conformément à l'Accord de Concession ;
                - Etude d'assistance à l'Organe de Suivi de la concession
                - Assistance à l'ANAC pour la préparation du Projet Régional de Sûreté et de
                   Sécurité Aéroportuaires (PRSSA) qui est entré en vigueur en novembre 2006
                - Préparation du PST-2 entré en vigueur en août 2007
                - Elaboration du Plan de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale

  I.    Leçons Tirées de l'Evaluation du Projet d'Amélioration des Corridors de Transport
        (PACT)

Contrairement à la pratique générale, l'appréciation de la performance du PACT à partir du
niveau des indicateurs pourrait être biaisée. En effet, pour une série de raisons, les indicateurs ne
sont pas appropriés pour rendre compte des performances dans le cas de ce projet. Plusieurs de
ces indicateurs sont plutôt formulés en termes d'objectifs et non d'outils de mesure d'impact.
Ceci reflète le niveau de maîtrise du concept d'indicateur même au moment de la préparation du
projet en 2002 - 2004. Par ailleurs, le retard important accusé dans le démarrage des travaux de
la route Sévaré ­ Gao, de même que le caractère binational du chemin de fer ont joué sur la
pertinence ou l'efficacité des indicateurs d'impact qui se rapportent à ces sous-composantes.



                                                   54
Les objectifs visés par le projet, ainsi que les activités menées se sont révélés pertinents pour le
secteur des transports. En effet, en dépit des difficultés qu'a connues la concession, les activités
ferroviaires sur l'axe Bamako ­ Dakar seraient dangereusement compromises sans la
contribution du PACT.
Par ailleurs, l'expérience et l'appui de la Banque Mondiale ont été particulièrement appréciables
dans :
    (i)     la gestion des questions sociales, ce qui a permis de préserver la paix sociale, pour le
            démarrage et l'évolution de Transrail-s.a. ;
    (ii)    Le renforcement des acquis des grandes reformes qui ont permis d'améliorer la
            capacité de gestion du secteur par l'administration ainsi que l'amélioration des
            conditions d'exécution de l'entretien routier.




                                                55
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                               56
                     Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No. 41746 -ML , December 12, 2007
2.    Development Credit Agreement (Transport Corridors Improvement Project), March
      18, 2004
3.    Table with rankings of PDO, IP and components and managers comments in the
      PSRs/ISRs
4.    Mid-Term Review Report
5.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - Mali Transport Sector Project (PST) June
      20, 2005
6.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) ­ Senegal Second Transport Sector Project
      (PSTII) June 28, 2008
7.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - National Rural Infrastructure Project,
      June 30, 2008
8.    Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICR and OED Evaluations
9.    Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit to the Republic of Mali for a
      Transport Corridors Improvement Project, February 11, 2004
10.   Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit the Republic of Mali for a Second
      Transport Sector Project, April 30, 2007
11.   Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit to Burkina Faso, the Republic of
      Ghana, and the Republic of Mali for the West Africa Transport and Transit
      Facilitation Regional Project, May 23, 2008
12.   Note on World Bank Experience with railway concessions in Sub Saharan Africa,
      2009
13.   Aide-mémoires and Progress Reports
14.   Audit technique des travaux d'entretien des routes au Mali, 2007
15.   Rapport de fin de projet du PACT, Unité de Coordination des Projets de Transport,
      Mai 2010.




                                        57
                                                                                                                                                              0°
                                                                                                                                                                        ROADS FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT

                                                                 MALI                                                                                                   DAKAR-BAMAKO RAIL CONCESSION SUPPORT
                                                                                                                                            ALGERIA                     UNDER THE PROJECT

                       TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                                                                                              ROAD MAINTAINED BY THE GOV.'T OF MALI
                       IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                              Taoudenni
                                                                                                                                                                        ROAD FINANCED BY AfDB AND BOAD IN
                                                                                                                                                                        SUPPORT OF UEMOA's PR-1

                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS AND INTERNATIONAL CORRIDORS
                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                        PORTS
            20°
                                                                                                                                                                        CITIES
                                                                          MAURITANIA                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITALS                  20°
                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                            Nouakchott
                                                                                                                                       M A L I
                                               S e n e ga
                                                            R.                                                             TCIP
                                                                                                                                                                                               NIGER
                                                         l




                                                                                                                                                        Gao

                                                                                               Nioro                                 Douentza
            Dakar
                                                                                Kayes                     Nara
                                     SENEGAL                                                                           Sévaré
                                                                                                                        Mopti                    GOV.'T OF MALI
                                                                                                                            .                                      Niamey
                  Banjul                                                                                                 rR
                                                                                                         Ségou       ige
               THE                                                                                               N                   BURKINA
            GAMBIA                                                                                                                     FASO
                                                                                                       Bamako            Ouagadougou
                        Bissau                                                          TCIP
                      GUINEA-                                                                           Bougouni
                       BISSAU
                                                            GUINEA                                        Sikasso
                                                                                                                         Bobo
                                                                                                                                                                                              NIGERIA
            10°                                                                                                          Dioulasso                             BENIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                10°
                                      Conakry                                                          AfDB AND BOAD                                                           Nig
                                                                                                                                                                                     e r R.     Abuja
                                        Freetown                 SIERRA




                                                                                                                                                        TOGO
                                                                 LEONE                                    CÔTE                         GHANA
                                                                                                        D'IVOIRE
                                                                                LIBERIA
                                                               Monrovia
                                                                                                                                                          Lome Cotonou
                  0      100      200       300       400        500                                                                            Accra
                                                                                                                      Abidjan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 32868R
                                 KILOMETERS

             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
JUNE 2010




             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                         AT L A N T I C                 O C E A N
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                        10°                                                           0°                                                         10°
