Document of
The World Bank                    FEE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3010-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF JAMAICA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF JAMAICA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
May 28, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Through April 1977           US$1.000 = J$0.909   J$1.000 = US$1.000
April 1977 - May 1978             - Dual exchange rate system -
May 1978                     US$1.000 = J$1.550   J$1.000 = US$0.645
December 1978                US$1.000 = J$1.695   J$1.000 = US$0.590
May 1979 - Present           US$1.000 = J$1.783   J$1.000 = US$0.561
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                   British/ US
1 meter (m)                 =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   =   0.68 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km )        0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)             =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)            2,204 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)      3              0.22 US gallon (gal)
i cubic meter (m )               6.3 barrels (b)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
PCJ     =      Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica
IDB     =      Inter-American Development Bank
MME     =      Ministry of Mines and Energy
JPSC    =      Jamaica Public Service Company
UNDP    =      United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government: April 1 - March 31
Petroleum Corporation
of Jamaica: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             :    The Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ)
Guarantor            :    Jamaica
Amount                    US$7.5 Million
Terms                     Payable in 17 years, including four years of grace at
9.6% interest. PCJ would pay the Government a guar-
antee fee of 1.0%, raising the cost to PCJ to 10.6%.
Project Description       The project is directed at promoting exploration
of the country's hydrocarbon potential by helping
maximize the effectiveness of PCJ as a partner of
private international companies and as an independent
investor. It includes:
(a) Exploration: Exploration by PCJ of the offshore
Pedro Bank as an equity partner of private oil
companies (i. e., the financing of its carried
equity interest after a commercial discovery is
made) or, under certain circumstances, by
exercising a sole risk option for activities
such as well sidetracking, deepening, testing
and shooting of seismic lines.
(b) Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment:
Provision of laboratory equipment and consulting
expertise in geophysics, geology, micropaleon-
tology, petroleum economics and engineering, to
train staff, to monitor exploration work under-
taken by companies and to advise PCJ on other
responsibilities including the import and
distribution of petroleum products in Jamaica.
(c) Offshore Seismic Survey: Acquisition and
processing of about 2,300 line-km of seismic
data covering the shelf between Jamaica's
southern coast and the 200 m water depth line.
(d) Lubricating Oil Recovery Study: Feasibility
study for a project to recycle imported lubric-
ating oil.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Risks              The exploration risk associated with the explora-
tion component will be borne by the international oil
companies, except when under certain circumstances
PCJ decides to invest in exploration at its sole risk
and expense. These costs would be incremental to
those borne by the private companies and the risk
will be assessed by the Bank at the time of the
investment decision in relation to benefits that
would accrue to Jamaica if an exploitable find is
made. The risk associated with the off-shore seismic
survey is that the data may not be attractive
enough to private companies for them to enter into
exploration contracts. This risk is acceptable when
viewed against the potential benefits from additional
exploration by the private sector.
Estimated Cost             The total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.4
million equivalent, of which US$7.5 million (about
89 percent) would be foreign exchange. 1/ The
project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and
duties. A summary cost table is shown below:
1/   Total estimated cost of the project does not include costs borne by
private oil companies for exploration.



- iii -
Foreign     Local      Total
…_------ (US  '000) …
Exploration
PCJ's Equity Participation or                    2,800        300      3,100 1/
Sole Risk
Sub-total    2,800        300       3,100
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services                                500         75        575
Equipment                                          335         25         360
Sub-total       835       100         935
Offshore Seismic Survey
Sub-contract                                     1,900        200      2,100
Sub-total    1,900        200       2,100
Lubrication Oil Pecovery Study
Consultant Services                                115         50         165
Sub-total       115        50         165
Baseline Cost                                    5,650        650       6,300
Physical Contingencies                             560         70         630
Price Contingencies                              1,290        180      1,470
Total Contingencies    1,850         250       2,100
TOTAL FSTIMATF,D COST                            7,500        900      8,400
1/   Assumes reimbursement by PCJ to partners of 10% of the investment in a
discovery well and two delineation wells.



- iv -
Foreign     Local      Total
__------- (US$ '000) -
Financing Plan: 1/
Bank                  7,500         -        7,500
PCJ                    _           900         900
Total                 7,500        900       8,400
Estimated Disbursements:
FY 82      FY 83      FY 84   FY 85
Bank - Annual               500       2,000     1,500   3,500
Cumulative          500       2,500      4,000   7,500
Rate of Return:            N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:  N.A.
Map:                       IBRD   15576
1/   Does not include financing by private oil companies of exploration.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF JAMAICA FOR
A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ) with the guarantee of
Jamaica for the equivalent of US$7.5 million to help finance a proposed
petroleum exploration project. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including four years of grace, with interest at 9.6% per annum. PCJ would
pay the Government a guarantee fee of 1% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
Introduction
2.        An Economic Memorandum entitled "Jamaica's Short-Term Economic
Program" was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1980. An Economic
Mission visited Jamaica in March 1981 and is preparing its report. The mate-
rial below is based on the mission's findings.
3.        After almost a decade of sustained economic decline, the Jamaican
economy appears to be ready to resume a normal pace of growth and development.
While the reasons for this decline were both economic as well as political,
a new government, elected in October 1980, is attempting to reverse previous
policies so as to bring the economy out of its long depression. While it is
yet too early to see statistical evidence o support this conclusion, policies
already implemented or currently under discussion provide indications that a
significant recovery is about to take place.
4.        The fact that Jamaica has experienced sustained economic decline
for nearly a decade is particularly striking as the country is endowed with
natural resources, has well-educated and skilled manpower, enjoys the advan-
tage of proximity to the lucrative North American markets, and possesses a
developed financial system. By the same token, however, its advantages are
also its disadvantages. The openness of the economy makes it highly sensitive
to international prices and demand changes; particularly, given the lack of
exploited energy resources, the economy is very vulnerable to increases in the
prices of oil, since imports of this fuel provide for about 99% of Jamaica's
commercial energy consumption. Its labor and capital have proved inter-
nationally mobile, and massive outflows of capital and emigration of skilled
labor have occurred. Recently, the larger burden of the external debt at
variable rates has also made the economy more vulnerable to increases in the
interest rates in international capital markets. The careful management of
its resources in the face of these external pressures is the central challenge
to the new Government.
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Second Export Development Fund Project
(Report No: P-3019-JM dated April 9, 1981).



A. Jamaica in the 1970s
Output, Unemployment and Inflation
5.         Jamaica's per capita real GDP peaked in 1972.  It has decreased
every year thereafter and the accumulated decline reached 26% by 1980.
The performance of agriculture was uneven and, overall, showed no growth
between 1973 and 1980. The important, foreign exchange earning, mining
sector, that had led growth in the early 70s experienced an accumulated
decline of 38% in 1975  and 1976, when the international mining companies
reacted to the bauxite levy introduced in 1974 by diversifying their opera-
tions away from Jamaica, and by 1980, output levels were still 21% below
the 1974 maximum. Manufacturing production declined every year except
in 1975, bringing the 1980 level 26% below the 1973 peak. Construction
in 1980 was 55% below the 1973 level. The services-producing sectors,on the
whole, also tended to decline in spite of a substantial increase in Government
services; real value added by the conglomerate of services-producing sectors
was 12% lower in 1980 than in 1973.
6.        The decline in economic activity has intensified unemployment, which
rose from 22% in 1973 to 31% in 1979 and an estimated 35% in 1980. Unemploy-
ment has been considerably more acute for certain social groups; in 1978, for
example, for youths aged 14 to 19 the unemployment rate was 58%, while the
unemployment rate for women was 38%.
7.      Inflation rates rose sharply in the early 70s and then declined
during 1974-1976. In 1978, the December to December inflation rate jumped to
50%, reflecting the impact of the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar and the
elimination of subsidies to certain consumption goods. In 1980 it was still
above 30%.
Public Finances
8.      The financial performance of the Jamaican Central Government has
been weak during FY73/74 - FY80/81. The financial position of the Central
Government deteriorated sharply between FY73/74 and FY76/77 and led to
increased reliance on domestic financing, mostly from the banking system.
Large increases in expenditure--both current and capital--outpaced the growth
in revenue. As a result, the current account, which registered a small
surplus in FY73/74, deteriorated to a deficit of 6.1% of GDP in FY76/77, and
the overall deficit increased from 5.5% of GDP in FY73/74 to 19.3% of GDP in
FY76/77. During FY77/78 and FY78/79 the Government sought to correct the
fiscal imbalance by introducing measures designed to make the personal income
tax more progressive, increasing consumption and import taxes, and reinforcing
expenditure controls. By FY78/79 the fiscal current account deficit had
decreased to 5.5% of GDP, and the overall deficit to 14.8% of GDP.
9.         The original fiscal program for FY79/80 aimed at further improving
the performance of the Central Government. The current account was targeted
to register a small surplus. The overall deficit was targeted to decrease.



- 3 -
However, the fiscal situation deteriorated in that year. The current account
showed a deficit of 3.7% of GDP and the overall deficit increased to 16.9%
of GDP.  Overall revenue fell short of the estimates, total expenditures
exceeded the estimates. Current expenditures exceeded the target level
by 8.7%; half of the current expenditure increase was related to increased
interest payments, but the other half was mainly accounted for by larger than
anticipated wage increases and expenditures on goods and services, including
those made necessary by the flood damages. Capital expenditures exceeded
the estimates by 7%.
10.       Fiscal performance has deteriorated further in FY80/81 (fiscal
year ending March 31). Preliminary estimates indicate that although the
growth of current expenditures will be limited to 18.0%, revenues will
grow only 11.0% and the current account deficit of the Central Government
will increase to 5.1% of GDP against 3.7% in FY79/80. The overall deficit
would remain at about 15% of GDP.
External Sector
II.       During the 1973-1980 period Jamaica's balance of payments has
been under continuous pressure. Poor export performance, a sharply rising
oil bill, mounting debt service pressures, and net private capital outflows,
led to a precarious foreign exchange situation by 1976. In 1977 and 1978,
the stablization program and the refinancing of commercial debt ameliorated
the situation, which continued to be serious. In 1979 and 1980 the balance of
payments position deteriorated even further.
12.       The current account of the balance of payments showed a substantial
deficit every year from 1973 to 1978. The deficit increased up to 1976, when
it reached its maximum value, around US$300 million, or 11% of GDP. In 1977
and 1978 the deficit was lower, around 3 to 4% of GDP. The major export
commodities experienced declines in volume. By 1976, the export volume of
bauxite and alumina--two commodities that in 1973 had accounted for about
two-thirds of the value of exports--had dropped nearly one-third below that
year's level, primarily as a result of the producing firms' reaction to the
introduction of the bauxite levy. In 1977 and 1978 export volumes of bauxite
and alumina recovered, but still remained substantially below the 1973 levels.
The volume of sugar exports--a commodity that in 1973 accounted for 10% of the
value of exports--declined continously, and in 1978 was one-fourth below the
1973 level. The volume of banana exports only increased marginally. Imports
rose rapidly in 1974 and 1975, nearly doubling in value from their 1973 level.
This was partly due to the 1973-74 oil price increases which tripled Jamaica's
fuel bill to US$215 million by 1975. The implementation of increasingly tight
controls, made necessary by the acute foreign exchange shortage, resulted in a
sharp decline in imports after 1975. By 1978 the US$ value of imports was
nearly one-third below the level reached in 1975.
13.        In 1979 and 1980 the balance of payments continued to deteriorate.
In 1979 the deficit in the current account increased to US$171 million, or
6.8% of GDP. Overall export performance was sluggish and the value of commo-
dity exports increased only 5%, reaching US$775 million. Only non-traditional



- 4 -
exports performed reasonably well and their value increased 17% to US$158
million. Commodity imports increased 16%, reaching US$1,003 million. The
increment--about US$140 million--was approximately equal to the increase in
the fuels bill, that totalled US$335 million. Non-oil imports remained
stationary around US$670 million, thus experiencing a decline in real terms.
In 1980 the deficit in current account increased to US$275 million, or 8.9%
of GDP. The value of commodity exports increased nearly 12%, reaching US$867
million. The increment in the proceeds from bauxite and alumina (US$90
million) was roughly equal to the increment in total commodity exports, and
reflects, by and large, an increase in alumina shipments of about 300,000 long
tons.  The volume of sugar exported declined by about one-third, reflecting
unfavorable weather conditions that compounded the sector's structural prob-
lems. The volume of banana exports fell more than 50%, reflecting the impact
of Hurricane Allen that aggravated the industry's problems. The value of
other exports increased 10%. The value of commodity imports increased about
17%, reaching US$1,170 million. lmports of fuels, that increased by US$105
million, once again accounted for most (63%) of this increase. Non-fuel
imports increased from US$670 million to US$730 million, or 9%.
14.       The large and sustained deficits in the current account of the
balance of payments have been partially offset by inflows of official capital.
As a result, Jamaica's external debt has increased from US$181 million
at the end of 1973, to an estimated US$1,183 million at the end of 1979, of
which the Bank held 10.7%. Expressed as a ratio to GDP, the external debt
of Jamaica has increased from 9.5% in 1973, to 47.0% in 1979. The other
major source of financing has been the decrease in net international reserves;
at the end of 1973, these stood at US$37 million;by the end of 1980 they
had reached US$-590 million, including US$112 million of commercial arrears.
B. The Program
15.       In October 1980, a general election was held in Jamaica.  The
opposition Jamaica Labor Party obtained 52 of 60 seats in Parliament. The
new Government has negotiated an Extended Agreement with the International
Monetary Fund, that was approved by the Board of Directors on April 13, 1981.
This agreement focuses on the stabilization and recovery of the Jamaican
economy over the next three years. The new Government has also begun to
define its position with respect to longer term policy issues; the dialogue
with the Bank has been active and fruitful, but the process will still take
some time to be completed.
Overall Strategy
16.       The Government's objectives are to promote economic activity and
reduce the level of unemployment; also, to return existing utility services
and social and economic infrastructure to levels of efficiency which will
support economic growth. The strategy falls into two parts: firstly, to put
inutilized capacity to work with the emphasis on those sectors that will
produce quick and substantial incremental foreign exchange earnings; secondly,
to initiate adjustments in industrial and agricultural policies and so provide
a basis for expansion of productive capacity with concomitant increases in
employment opportunities.



-5-
17.       The Government anticipates that it will take at least three years
to get the Jamaican economy back on a path of self-sustaining growth. With
the plant and equipment now in place, real growth of 3% can be achieved
in 1981. For 1982 and 1983, the growth targets of 4% and 5%, respectively,
will require adequate incremental capital formation. The Government wishes
to make the private sector the main engine of growth, creating an environment
in which private initiative can prosper. Consequently, steps will be taken to
remove progressively all controls that inhibit such an environment.  The
Government will promote private domestic and foreign investment. The Government
wishes to decrease the degree of state regulation of the economy and to bring
about the divestment of a number of companies that were once private, but are
today in the Government's hands. To this effect, the Government has created
a Divestment Committee that will seek the orderly transfer to the private
sector of a number of Government-run operations.
Production and Investment
18.       The dominant task is the implementation of an export-oriented produc-
tion program to generate early incremental flows of foreign exchange. Tourism
can make a major contribution since this sector has substantial underutilized
capacity. In the first year of the program, hotel occupancy is projected at
48% of capacity generating more than US$200 million. The objective is to
attain 70% occupancy by the third year, which should yield US$375 million at
today's prices.
19.       Agreements reached with the bauxite/alumina companies in 1980 have
restored the competitiveness of that industry. Further, the Government and
the companies are pursuing, in cooperation vith the appropriate US agency, the
acceptance of levy payments to Jamaica as a tax credit against US income tax
within double taxation arrangements. The companies are undertaking upgrading
programs for attaining rated capacity which will increase the volume of
production and export of bauxite/alumina by 10%. One company is doubling
plant capacity on a joint venture basis with the Government of Jamaica and
private Norwegian interests. In addition the Government has initiated discus-
sions with the companies to increase exports of bauxite from existing mining
operations by up to 6 million tons per annum during the program period, and
also to embark on a program for further expansion of alumina capacity.
20.       The sugar industry has a potential market within the EEC regime
and an ISA quota of up to 255,000 tons, but current exports are only 160,000
tons.  In the recent past cane cultivation was ravaged by smut and rust
disease, and in 1980 a program for replanting existing acreage with disease
resistent cane varieties was implemented. The objective is to lift the
production of sugar from 260,000 tons to 330,000 tons and exports to 230,000
in 1983.
21.       The already depressed banana industry was devastated by Hurricane
Allen in 1980. Programs for its rehabilitation supported by bilateral and
multilateral external financial sources are in place. There is a guaranteed
market of 150,000 tons in the United Kingdom, but in 1980 exports attained
only 33,000 tons, and the objective is to reach 120,000 tons in 1983. The
rehabilitation program includes the expansion of cultivation, the improvement
of yields, and the participation of the private sector, including foreign
investment.



-6-
22.       Exports of manufactured goods are already supported by World Bank
resources channeled through an Export Development Fund (EDF). During the
program period a basis will be provided for production expansion to generate
incremental employment opportunities and foreign exchange earnings. The first
step will be an examination and evaluation of Jamaica's industrial and agricul-
tural policies to identify desirable modifications and structural adjustments
which may be necessary to support efficient production and provide incentives
for investment.
23.       Private foreign investment flows, particularly on a joint venture
basis, will be an important factor in the economic recovery of Jamaica.
Already, steps have been taken to bring together groups of North American
businessmen to examine opportunities for foreign investment. The Government
plans to expand the Kingston Free Zone, and some 15 companies have expressed
interest in establishing new enterprises in lines such as textiles, elec-
tronics, chemicals, warehousing, and food processing. Outside the Free Zone
area, about 70 investment inquiries are being processed, covering agriculture
and agrobusiness, manufacturing, mining, and tourism.
Fiscal Policy
24.       As part of its agreement with the IMF, the Government is committed
to prudent financial management, which will be geared to achieving surpluses
on current account for financing capital expenditure. The objective over the
program period is the continued reduction of Central Government overall
expenditures to a level of not more than 30% of GDP; a turnaround of current
account performance from a deficit of 5% of GDP to a surplus of at least
1% by FY83/84; and a narrowing of the overall deficit to around 10% of GDP.
The Government will implement, not later than October 1, 1981, aspects of a
comprehensive tax reform program to attain an increase of not less than 1/2%
of GDP on estimated tax revenues for FY81/82. With the prospective increases
in resources through fiscal measures and incremental bauxite levy collections,
the current account deficit estimated at 3-1/2% of GDP for FY81/82 should
improve to a surplus of not less than 1% of GDP by FY83/84. The incremental
receipts by FY83/84 are estimated at some J$475 million (the equivalent
of US$266 million) and would assist in offsetting the expected decline over
the period in emergency concessionary budgetary support from donor countries
and multilateral agencies.
25.       Special attention will be paid to public debt management.  The
existing stock of external commercial debt is to be refinanced and external
borrowing, other than on concessionary terms, will be limited to a reasonable
proportion of the financing program and related, by and large, to the external
costs of the public investment program.
26.       The level of government expenditure in FY81/82 will be held to 33%
of GDP. On reasonable expectations about the revenue performance, such an
expenditure level would yield a current account deficit of 3-1/2% of GDP.
The overall cash deficit of the Central Government (excluding debt amortization)
in FY81/82 will, therefore, be held to J$945 million, which would represent
about 13-1/2% of GDP. Compensation to employees represented 76% of tax



- 7 -
revenue in FY80/81, and 61% of current expenditure excluding interest. Any
policy for constraining consumption expenditure must come to grips with this
reality. The Government will however develop a three-year pay plan aimed at
moderation in civil service pay awards subject to the need to attract and
retain skilled personnel. For FY81/82 budget resources for the pay plan will
be limited to about J$65 million. In addition, while the Government considers
that a cutback of staff would be unacceptable with the existing level of un-
employment; the number of employees at March 31, 1981, will not be increased;
subject to the maintenance of operational efficiency, existing vacancies and
those arising from future resignations and retirements will not be filled.
Monetary Policy
27.       During the program period, monetary policy will be directed toward
mobilizing savings and ensuring that sufficient bank credit is made available
to priority sectors. The Treasury Bill discount rate will be the prime
instrument for influencing changes in the interest rate structure. Domestic
bank credit requirements of the Government will be met substantially from the
issue of such bills, and their yield will be determined by market forces. The
bank rate will be set at a level not lower than the Treasury Bill rate. In
order that building societies can maintain their competitiveness in attracting
deposits with the minimum impact on their mortgage rates, the current tax
concessions to their depositors will be enhanced.
Balance of Payments Policy
28.       The major obstacle to economic recovery is the acute shortage of
foreign exchange. In the early years of the program, balance of payments
support from external sources on a large scale will be needed. The Government
has approached donor countries and multilateral financial institutions for
special balance of payments assistance of a concessionary nature. Foreign
commercial banks are considering a deferral/refinancing of the bulk of
government and government-guaranteed debt to them maturing in FY81/82 and
FY82/83, as well as the provision of incremental credits.
29.       An enduring solution to the foreign exchange shortage must rest on a
restoration of confidence in the economy and a quantum increase in earnings
from exports and tourism. The action program for export-oriented production
will provide rising foreign exchange earnings over the program period, and
thus reduce the reliance on emergency balance of payments assistance. With
the elimination of payments arrears, renewed confidence and economic buoyancy,
trade credits should be restored to normal levels and assist in supporting the
level of imports required for economic growth. Direct foreign investment is to
provide additional resources, given the current arrangements for encouraging
such flows and the interest already shown by foreign investors.
30.       The Government considers Jamaica's export to be competitive at
the present exchange rate and has therefore decided to maintain the official
exchange rate at its present level. The Government intends, however, to
review exchange rate policy and, if needed, take action in case excessive
domestic price increases and a departure from wage moderation would cause
an erosion of this competitiveness.



-8-
Support of the International Monetary Fund
31.       The program described is supported by resources to be provided by
the International Monetary Fund. The Agreement between the Government of
Jamaica and the International Monetary Fund envisages the purchase of
SDR 477.7 million (approximately US$584.8 million) under a new extended
arrangement, SDR 21.8 million (approximately US$26.7 million) corresponding
to the balance available in the first credit tranche, and SDR 37.0 million
(approximately US$45.3 million) under the compensatory financing facility.
Total support from the IMF would total SDR 536.5 million (approximately
US$656.8 million).
32.       The performance criteria agreed between the IMF and the Government
of Jamaica are: (i) a set of ceilings on net domestic bank credit to the
public sector (defined as the Central Government, local government, and a
specified group of public entities); (ii) a set of ceilings on the net
domestic assets of the Bank of Jamaica; (iii) a set of balance of payments
targets, framed in terms of changes in the net international reserve position
of the Bank of Jamaica (including the external payments arrearage among its
international liabilities); (iv) a guideline for the portfolio management of
the international assets and liabilities of the Bank of Jamaica, embodied in
a set of ceilings on its gross international reserve holdings; (v) a limit on
the contracting of new external debt by the public sector and the Bank of
Jamaica and by the private sector covered by a Government guarantee, in a
maturity range from one year to twelve years, with a subceiling for the
maturity range from one year to five years; and (vi) an injunction against
the introduction of any multiple currency practice, the imposition of any new
or intensification of any existing restriction on payments and transfers for
current international transactions, and the introduction of any new or
intensification of any existing restriction on imports for balance of payments
reasons. Besides, the agreement contains provisions and review clauses in
connection with policies for FY82/83 and FY83/84.
Creditworthiness
33.       Jamaica's economy has been subject to nearly a decade of continuous
deterioration and decline. The new Government has defined a program to
interrupt these trends and initiate a process of economic recovery. To this
effect, a three-year agreement with the IMF has been put in place. The
Government is also in the process of defining policies concerning public
investments and incentives for the private sector in close consultation with
the Bank. On this basis, provided Jamaica successfully carries out its
economic stabilization and recovery program and continues to make progress in
defining a viable longer term economic program, it should be considered
creditworthy for continued external assistance, subject to continued close
monitoring of the application and the success of such policies.



- 9 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
34.       The Bank has made 24 loans 1/ in Jamaica totalling US$322.7 million
after cancellations. Of this amount, US$117.4 million (36%) has been for
infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water supply
and sewerage; the remainder has gone into a revolving fund for financing
of inputs for export industries (21%), agriculture and agroindustry (13%);
program lending (19%) (out of which 10% to the revolving fund for export
industries), education (8%), sites and services (5%), forestry (4%), popula-
tion and nutrition (3%), and small-scale enterprises (2%). At the end of
1980, Jamaica's debt to the Bank stood at US$171 million, or 13% of external
debt outstanding and disbursed; debt service to the Bank during the year
amounted to US$16.7 million, or 10% total debt service.   The undisbursed
amount of Bank loans as of March 31, 1981 amounted to US$68.5 million.
There have been three IFC investments in Jamaica; a loan in 1961 to a pre-mix
concrete company, an equity/loan investment in 1968 in a hotel project, and a
loan in 1980 to a glass container company.
35.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized infra-
structure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued, the
emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to the
social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition, housing
and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In response to
changing economic forces, a further shift in Bank lending has taken place in
Jamaica in the late 1970s. The priority needs of this most recent period have
been the country's critical short-to-medium-term balance of payments and pro-
duction requirements. Thus, the FY78 lending program contained a US$30
million program loan and an US$18 million loan for the rehabilitation of sugar
factories. The FY79 forestry project and US$30 million second program loan
are directed at similar needs. Other FY79 lending operations included a
fourth highway loan of US$16.0 million and a small-scale-industry loan of
US$7.0 million. No loans were made in FY80 due to the absence of a medium-
term economic program. In FY81, the Bank made a second loan to the Export
Development Fund.
36.       Project implementation difficulties have been endemic to Bank and
other internationally financed projects. These difficulties have had four
principal causes: (i) shortage of key personnel; (ii) inadequacies in the
systems of management used in planning and controlling projects; (iii) organ-
izational and structural problems in the public sector; and (iv) budgeting
restraints resulting in shortages of local financing. The difficult economic
conditions of the last several years have affected and intensified the problem
in all four areas. The Government, the Bank and the other international
agencies are taking steps to deal with it in existing projects and the design
of new projects, but it is too early to assess the impact of these steps.
37.       Future Bank lending to Jamaica is predicated on an acceptable
economic program, an export-oriented overall economic policy and a satisfac-
tory public sector investment program. The lending program for the next three
years emphasizes loans designed to contribute to a rapid improvement in the
balance of payments situation. Loans under preparation include a loan to
1/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone
Company and cancelled in the same year, and the Second Export Development
Fund loan signed on May 15, 1981.



- 10 -
expand the Kingston Free Zone aimed at encouraging additional foreign invest-
ment for export industries, and a loan for technical assistance. The Govern-
ment has also requested a structural adjustment loan to finance imports of
necessary inputs to expand industrial and agricultural production. Other
projects which have been identified for consideration in future years include
two projects in agriculture related to sugar and banana rehabilitation and an
export industries project to provide long-term credits for capital investment
by export industries.
38.       Coordination with other external lenders and assistance agencies
has been given particular attention in formulating the Bank's lending strategy.
The Bank has taken a lead role in an international aid effort for the Caribbean
called the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development. The Group
has met annually in Washington since 1978. The Group has brought together the
donor agencies and countries for the Caribbean and the recipient countries.
Within the framework of the Group, individual country subgroup meetings,
similar to Bank consultative group meetings, have been held. The subgroup
meetings for Jamaica have provided an opportunity to present a country project
list and to coordinate assistance efforts. As a result of the Caribbean Group
and subgroup meetings, and of related donor activities, Jamaica has received
commitments, exclusive of Bank and IMF assistance, for additional balance of
payments and project local cost financing of US$225 million in FY81 from several
bilateral and multilateral donors. Local cost financing provided in this
manner financed the local cost requirements of several Bank-assisted projects
in FY80. The Caribbean Group has also provided a basis for cofinancing
foreign exchange costs with the OPEC Special Fund in the Bank-assisted Second
Power Project. In addition to the close relationship established with the IMF
and the UNDP in dealing with Jamaican problems, the Bank has worked intimately
with other sponsoring agencies of the Caribbean Group--the Inter-American
Development Bank and the Caribbean Development Bank--as well as with bilateral
aid agencies in several major donor countries.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Supply and Demand
39.       With the decline in the importance of agriculture in Jamaica and the
growth in the mining and manufacturing sectors, the country became one of the
more energy intensive economies in the region. Between 1961 and 1973, the per
capita commercial energy consumption of Jamaica rose from 3.8 barrels of fuel
oil equivalent to a high of 10. By contrast, the country's known indigenous
energy resources are few and limited to some peat deposits, agricultural
residues and a small hydro potential. Of total energy consumption at present,
about one percent is derived from hydropower and 9 percent from the use of
bagasse in the sugar industry. The balance is accounted for by imported
petroleum which supplies 90% of Jamaica's energy needs.



- 11 -
40.       As a result of this dependence on petroleum, the oil price increases
of 1973/74 caused widespread disruptions in the economy. The country's oil
import bill rose from about US$60 million in 1973 or 15% of total exports to
US$305 million in 1979 or over 45% of total exports. At the same time,
commercial per capita consumption decreased from 10 barrels of fuel oil
equivalent in 1973 to 7.6 barrels in 1979, with petroleum consumption decreas-
ing from 20.5 million barrels in 1973 to 16.8 million in 1979. This was due
not only to the slowing down of the economy, but also to conservation efforts,
including the enforcement of allocation measures provoked by the growing lack
of foreign exchange. In 1980, it is estimated that although total consumption
of petroleum products was 7.2% lower than in 1979, the oil import bill was
some 40% higher (US$425 million).
41.       Petroleum demand in Jamaica is met partly by imported refined pro-
ducts and partly by imported crude oil which is refined in a small refinery
owned and operated by Exxon. The refinery, built in 1964, has an ultimate
rated capacity of 32,600 b/d. This compares with total sales of oil products
of about 45,000 b/d in 1979, of which the bauxite/ alumina industry accounts
for about 50%, international bunkers (maritime and aviation) for 8% and the
internal market for 42% or about 20,000 b/d.
42.       The refinery is free to import feedstocks (crude petroleum, blended
crude or finished products) to meet part of the demand of the internal market.
Other   marketing companies that are established in Jamaica, such as Texaco
and Shell, are also entitled to import finished products and to distribute
them at prices fixed by the Government. The right to import by the refinery
applies only to the needs of the internal market and does not extend to the
import and sale of petroleum products to the international shipping and
aviation industry or the bauxite/alumina sector. The bauxite/ alumina
industry in the past has imported its own fuel requirements, particularly when
the domestic refinery was unable to match international prices. Indeed, due
to the small size of the local refinery and low throughput, the cost of
refining in Jamaica is comparatively high. Because of this factor, and of the
existence of large refineries with excess capacity in nearby Curacao and
Aruba, the Government has decided to study the alternatives available to it as
regards the future of the refinery.
Government Plans and Policies
43.       Jamaica recognized early the potentially damaging effects of the
1973-74 oil price increase and initiated measures to minimize the impact
on the economy, including developing by 1977 a comprehensive energy sector
plan, with the following objectives: (a) to search for and develop domestic
energy resources; (b) to improve energy efficiency, and (c) to upgrade techno-
logical and institutional capability.
44.       Although no properly structured energy investment program has either
been developed or approved by the Government, a number of projects are moving
ahead directed at meeting the objectives of the plan. Efforts to identify and
develop energy resources in Jamaica include feasibility and environmental
studies for the recovery of peat deposits found in Negril and the Black River
basin which are scheduled to be completed in 1981. The Government is also
studying the feasibility of a major multi-purpose hydro project (Blue Moun-
tain), as well as small run-of-the river hydro projects in western and central



- 12 -
Jamaica and a system of mini-hydro projects. Furthermore, onshore and offshore
exploration for hydrocarbons has been initiated. The onshore program (para.
60) is being implemented by the Government with an Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) loan approved in December 1980. The offshore program is being left
to private international oil companies, with the exception of some seismic
work that the Government intends to carry out itself in order to be able to
attract private investment. The offshore program would be supported by the
proposed loan and is discussed in paras. 61-64.
45.       Renewable sources of energy are also receiving increased attention
including solar energy applications, increased use of wood and bagasse, wind
power and ocean thermal energy conversion. Implementation of a project that
would re-refine used lubricating oils is being seriously considered, so that
scarce foreign exchange earnings could be saved. A study of the economics of
such a project is also being financed by the proposed loan. Finally, and
although there may have been some duplication of efforts, studies have been
commissioned to evaluate the feasibility of using imported coal rather than
petroleum to meet the future energy needs of the bauxite industry as well as
those of the electric power generating company which in 1979 accounted for
over 17% of petroleum sales.
46.       The Government is also aware of the need for conservation.  Work has
been initiated on the development of an energy accounting system and energy
end-use surveys. US AID is considering a US$4 million conservation project
that would assist in these efforts as well as provide the training and the
hardware to help curtail energy consumption by industrial and commercial
establishments.
47.        In addition, prices of petroleum products are no longer subsidized
on balance, although products intended for household use are sold at prices
slightly below cost at present. Wholesale and retail distributors' margins
for the internal market are controlled, but basic prices for petroleum
products are adjusted periodically to reflect changes in international
petroleum prices. The January 1981 price structure is shown below (Ji per
Imperial Gallon):
Whole-      Liquid
Premium   Regular   Kerosene  Retail   Sale         Petroleum
Gasoline  Gasoline   (Rural)  Diesel   Diesel           Gas
Refinery Cost             245.8       239.1    251.8       235.7    235.7        244.1
Tax                       170.0       170.0       -         30.0      30.0          -
Stabilization Factor 1/  (1.5)         (2.8)   (27.2)    (12.9)    (1.9)         (39.1)
Refinery Billing Price  414.3         406.3    224.6       252.8    263.8        205.0
Marketing Expenses
and Dealers Margin       50.7        48.7      32.4       37.2      18.2         -
Consumer Price            465.0       455.0    257.0       290.0    282.0        205.0
Consumer Price in
US$ per US gallon       2.22         2.17      1.23      1.39       1.34        0.98
17 The stabilization factor has only recently turned negative (para 50).



- 13 -
48.       As can be noted from the table above, taxes are imposed on gasoline
and diesel. Until June 1979, kerosene and diesel oils received subsidies
which were eliminated by mid-1979 for diesel and by the end of the year for
kerosene. This resulted in considerable increases in prices to the final
consumer. Also, the privately owned refinery received a small "refinery
differential" as an incentive granted to Exxon for constructing the refinery
in Jamaica. This incentive was discontinued in 1980. The prices of fuel oil,
asphalt, and other specialty products, are not directly monitored by the
Government as are prices of products mentioned above, and they reflect
international quotations.
49.        In order to shield the consumer from too frequent price changes, a
stabilization factor has been introduced. This factor is generally added to
the tax on petroleum products, yielding a revenue which is paid into a spe-
cially created stabilization fund. The initial level of the stabilization
factor for each product is based on a forecast of probable increases in
product prices at the Caribbean export refineries during the price fixation
period. The factor used is equal to half of the expected increase, so that
the revenues generated by the adjustment factor when international prices are
low, can be used to compensate for temporary increases of international prices
without increasing the final consumer prices immediately. New prices must
be fixed once the resources in the stabilization' fund are fully utilized,
indicating that the higher level of international prices reflects a long term
trend.
50.       The total amount accumulated in the stabilization fund now amounts
to US$19.1 million, because until 1980 international prices have remained at
lower levels than those projected by the government, so that the stabilization
factor has been consistently positive. Only recently has the stabilization
factor become negative and, in the absence of price adjustments, would be
likely to remain negative in the foreseeable future. Hence it is necessary
for the government to monitor international price trends closely and not to
use resources accumulated in the fund to excessively delay adjusting consumer
prices to current price increases. The Government is now conducting a compre-
hensive study of the flows of energy resources to the various sectors of the
economy for the purpose, among others, of establishing economical and rational
fuels policies, including pricing policies. Upon completion of the study,
expected by mid-1982, the Government would discuss its conclusions and their
implementation with the Bank, and exchange views with the Bank on pricing
policies at least yearly thereafter. Until the proposed project is completed,
the Government would not allow the total cost of petroleum products to the
consumer, net of taxes currently being levied on their sale, fall below the
total cost of importing such products (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Sector Institutions
51.       The three main institutions concerned with energy in Jamaica are
the Ministry of Mines and Energy (energy policy, pricing, conservation and
studies), the Jamaica Public Service Company (electric power generation and
distribution), and the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica (exploration, develop-
ment and marketing of petroleum and other energy sources). The Energy Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Mines and Energy has been focusing on energy sector
planning through end-use surveys, studies of energy alternatives, and energy



- 14 -
conservation. It was also responsible for preparing the comprehensive energy
plan covering the 1978-83 period. Although the lack of trained manpower to
carry out the necessary planning work is serious, the situation will improve
with the technical assistance being provided by US AID, UNDP and other donors.
52.       The Jamaica Public Service Company (JPSC) is a wholly owned Govern-
ment corporation and is the sole public service supplier of electricity in
Jamaica. Of the total installed capacity of about 705 MW, approximately 471
MW (67%) are part of the public service system owned by JPSC. The remainder
are captive plants owned principally by aluminum, sugar and cement industries.
Of the electric energy generated by JPSC in 1980, approximately 84% was by
steam plants, 5% by gas turbines, 1% by diesel plants and only 10% by hydro
plants. Fuel costs are thus a very large component of JPSC's operating costs
(approximately 60% in 1980). A component of a bank financed project approved
in 1978 and aimed at rehabilitating the steam plants is expected to result
in a reduction in JPSC's fuel consumption.
53.       The third institution dealing with energy matters is the Petroleum
Corporation of Jamaica (PCJ) which is described in greater detail in Annex V.
PCJ, which would be the implementing agency for the proposed Bank project and
the Borrower of the proposed loan, was established as an autonomous Govern-
ment-owned corporation in June 1979 to become the Government's arm in all
matters concerning petroleum. PCJ has a staff of 55 employees, including
37 professionals, and is effectively managed. Until now, however, PCJ's
activities have mostly consisted of trading crude oil and petroleum products
under Government agreements, which have generated a large share of its income.
PCJ's long-term objective is to shift from its trading activities to the
development of the country's energy resources. This would require long-term
funding and a strengthening of PCJ's technical staff, including staff that
would supervise private sector petroleum exploration activity.
54.       PCJ's financial statements (Annex V), which are audited by indepen-
dent external auditors, indicate that PCJ is in a solid financial position.
As of December 1980, PCJ's total assets amounted to the equivalent of
US$51.2 million, of which 98% represented current assets. Net working
capital was US$16.3 million, with a current ratio of 1.5:1. The only out-
standing long-term liability consisted of a pre-investment loan from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) (US$0.9 million). This has now been
consolidated with IDB's 35 year loan of US$23.5 million at soft terms which
the Government is passing on to PCJ. Equity, equivalent to US$16.2 million,
was entirely accounted for by retained earnings.
55.       PCJ expects its annual income from the trading of crude oil and of
processed products to yield at least US$9 million per year in the foreseeable
future. In addition, PCJ expects to continue earning about US$5 million per
year from interest on short-term investments of cash surpluses. Administrative
expenses are expected to stabilize at about US$1.2 million per year. This
would generate an adequate cash flow, which is expected to remain sufficient
to service the proposed Bank loan, as well as the IDB soft-terms loan, even
in the event that no oil discovery is made either onshore or offshore, as
long as the Government permits PCJ to operate in the petroleum trading busi-
ness and does not require PCJ to pay large dividends. PCJ expects to begin
distributing dividends to the Government only after hydrocarbons are found



- 15 -
in commercial quantities and their production has started. UJntil then, any
dividend declared by PCJ's board would be automatically converted into capital
(Section 5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Nevertheless, in order to maintain
PCJ's financial position, the following covenants are included in the Loan
Agreement (a) PCJ shall maintain on a year-to-year basis, a total debt service
coverage ratio of not less than 2:1; (b) PCJ shall maintain at all times a
quick ratio (current assets minus inventories over current liabilities) of not
less than 1:1; (c) PCJ will not incur any term debt if it would cause its debt
to equity ratio to rise above 1:1; and (d) the investments in oil and gas
exploration projects which PCJ may carry as assets in its balance sheet shall
not exceed, at any time, 70% of PCJ's equity 1/ (Sections 5.05, 5.06, 5.07 and
5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). Furthermore, a covenant in the Guarantee
Agreement would commit the Government not to require PCJ to distribute dividends
if by doing so the above financial covenants are breached, and to inject fresh
capital in PCJ if this proves necessary for PCJ to abide by those covenants
(Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Petroleum Legislation
56.       Jamaica's petroleum legislation is contained in the Petroleum Act of
1979 (Act No. 12) which defines the way petroleum rights are handled. It
authorizes PCJ (a) either alone or in association with contractors to explore,
develop and manage the country's petroleum resources, and (b) to enter into
agreements or arrangements providing for the participation, assistance or
cooperation of contractors in connection with (a) above. Based on this
authorization, PCJ has designed a Model Contract which has a duration of 25
years, but may terminate sooner if no hydrocarbons are found. The contract
recquires a minimum amount of work commitments during a six-year period.
If an oil discovery is made, the Government would be paid a royalty of
12.5% and a tax on income of 45%. After deduction of the royalty, tax and
expenditures, PCJ is entitled to a portion of the oil (not less than 30%)
without having to bear any of the costs or risks. Also, half the acreage
under that contract would be returned to PCJ after specific phases of the
exploration period.
Geology, Exploration to Date and Current Activities
57.       Annex IV provides a description of Jamaica's geology and2geological
prospects. In2summary, Jamaica's prospective area totals 9,000 km onshore
and 200,000 km offshore. Only limited exploration has been undertaken since the
mid-1950s. Seven wells drilled through 1977 (six onshore and one offshore)
were dry, with only one producing gas. A comprehensive study of Jamaica's
1/   For purposes of calculating the debt service coverage ratio and the
debt/equity ratio, the following adjustments will be made to PCJ's
official accounting data: (a) exploration costs, which PCJ fully charges
as expenses the year they are incurred in compliance with Jamaica's tax
laws, will be treated as investments and capitalized according to
acounting practices generally accepted in the oil industry; and (b)
in the case of a commercial discovery, PCJ's equity will be adjusted
upward to include the net present value of proven recoverable oil
reserves, to the extent that this is not reflected in the balance sheet.



- 16 -
petroleum potential, completed in 1977 by a US consulting firm, concluded that
tihese early wells were poorly located and recommended further exploratory
drilling after additional seismic data had been obtained. Based on this
recommendation, a new program of acquiring, processing, and interpreting both
on- and off-shore geological, geochemical and geophysical data was initiated
in 1978 with financial assistance from the Norwegian and IJK Governments.
58.       This program has now been completed.  Integration of new data with
information gathered previously and recent laboratory analysis have resulted
in: (i) identification of several structures onshore, albeit small; (ii) iden-
tification offshore of thick sedimentary sections, several basinal areas, and
a large number of sizeable structures with apparent good closures on Pedro
Bank, an area only slightly smaller than Jamaica itself located 80 km southwest
of the island, and (iii) identification offshore of a large shelf area between
Jamaica's southern coast and the 200 m water depth line (see map).
59.       While recent geological and geophysical studies have thus concluded
that Jamaica may have oil and gas, additional seismic work and exploration is
required to gain firmer knowledge of these resources. In terms of risk and
size of potential discoveries, exploration of the onshore structures is likely
to be more difficult than those offshore. Although also risky, the offshore
structures on the Pedro Bank -- if explored to look for hydrocarbons in the
upper Cretaceous to lower Eocene Section, a newer concept than those previously
used -- would be worth drilling, and would be the only practical step toward
making a discovery. With respect to the southern shelf, information obtained
through magnetic and gravity surveys, as well as some shallow-water seismic
lines, indicates that the shelf has been subjected to only moderately severe
tectonic action and, as a consequence, may contain large oil-bearing struc-
tures. Additional seismic information for the shelf area needs to be acquired,
which would provide the data needed to help interest private investors in
exploring the area.
60.       PCJ is exploring the onshore area by drilling seven wells in at
least three of the five prospective areas identified on the island. Explora-
tory drilling would be undertaken in two phases: Phase 1 would consist of
drilling three known prospects in the west, on the north coast, and in the
eastern part of the country. If the results of these wells are sufficiently
encouraging, Phase 2 would then be implemented and four more wells drilled.
The cost of this onshore exploration program, including additional geophysical
slrveys, geological studies and geochemical analyses' is currently estimated
at about US$30 million. Of this amount, the IDB has recently made a loan
totalling US$23.5 million, 1/ with the balance to be covered by PCJ from its
own local currency resources. The project being financed by IDB covers only
exploration work. Should a commercial discovery be made, large amounts would
hive to be invested to develop the field.
1/   Tne loan was made from the IDB's Fund for Special Operations (FSO).
The loan is for 35 years, including 8-1/2 years of grace, at 2 percent
interest.   If the project results in a commercial discovery, the loan
terms would be converted to 15 years at the interest rate prevailing for
IDB ordinary capital loans.



- 17 -
61.       With respect to the offshore areas, Jamaica offered five offshore
blocks on the Pedro Bank to the international 2oil industry for exploration
(areas ranging in size from 2,000 to 6,000 km ). Of the blocks offered, an
exploration/production contract covering Block C (see map) on Pedro Bank was
signed in May 1980 with a consortium consisting of Union of Texas, a US
subsidiary of Allied Chemical and Agip, the exploration subsidiary of Italy's
national oil company (ENI). Each of the companies has an initial 50% interest
in the contract. Union of Texas, which is the operating partner, completed
detailed seismic work late last year.
62.       Under the contract with Union of Texas/Agip, the companies are
firmly committed to only one well and to a maximum expenditure of US$5
million within 24 months. If any acreage is retained beyond 36 months,
the contractors are obligated to drill a second well, within 42 months
of the effective date of the contract. Fifty percent of the contract area
must be relinquished at the end of the fourth year. Retention of acreage for
a fifth or sixth year would obligate the contractors to drill one well each
year. Under this contract, all risks and expenses are borne by the private
parties during the exploration phase. However, in the event of a commercial
discovery, PCJ may elect to assume a 10% equity interest.
63.       Exercising the equity participation option after a discovery is
declared commercial will not only be almost certainly in Jamaica's financial
interest, but will also strengthen PCJ by providing it with a cash flow
independent of the country's general revenues and with practical experience
typically not available to a national company or state agency which chooses
to play only a monitoring or oversight role. The actual mechanics of the
participation option as negotiated, require that PCJ, for exercising that
option, reimburses the private companies for part of the exploration expendi-
tures corresponding to PCJ's share. Reimbursement must be effected within
90 days of the declaration of commerciality. To meet its commitment, PCJ has
to have enough foreign exchange available to reimburse the private contractors
while financing is being arranged for the appraisal/development program.
64.       The Union of Texas/Agip group also intends to sign a second explora-
tion/production contract covering either Blocks A or D by the middle of 1981.
The same arrangements as under the contract on Block C will apply, except that
(a) the equity participation option will be applicable to a 20 percent interest,
and (b) unlike the contract on Block C, the new contract will provide PCJ with
a "sole risk" option 1/ which allows PCJ to accelerate exploration if this is
deemed justified, taking advantage of seismic boats, drilling rigs or work
crews which have already been mobilized at considerable expense. This addi-
tional exploration, if turned down by the private partners, could still be
1/   The means by which one company in a group engages, on its own, in explor-
ation work beyond the contract commitment of the group. Such additional
exploration might range from extra seismic lines through well sidetrack-
ing, deepening or testing, to the drilling of an additional well. In the
event of a discovery, the abstaining company normally pays to the sole
risk operator a penalty of 2-10 times the expenditure required for the
additional exploration to remain a partner in the project.



- 18 -
economical for Jamaica, even when adjusted for risk, taking into account that
the objectives of the Covernment and the private company could be different
(e.g. discovery of a small oil field or a gas field may not be of interest to
IJnion of Texas/Agip, yet important for Jamaica). The availability of foreign
exchange to PCJ would not only accelerate exploration with a relatively
small incremental investment, but it would also encourage PCJ's foreign
partners to perform additional exploration to avoid penalties, given PCJ's
capacity to participate on terms that would shift the profit split more
favorably to Jamaica; i.e. should a discovery be made under this option, the
terms of the contract would be reversed and PCJ would obtain most of the
production of that field. In such sole risk cases, PCJ may have to act
quickly to take advantage of crew and equipment already mobilized.
Role of the Bank
65.       In summary, PCJ has been able within a short period to build a
relatively strong organization with a solid financial position. Its current
plans call for it to expand its activities from trading to investing in pro-
jects that would develop the country's energy resources. For this, PCJ would
require long-term funding. PCJ has utilized all sources of assistance avail-
able to it to develop from scratch an onshore and offshore petroleum explora-
tion program. The onshore activities are being implemented by PCJ itself
and being financed with a loan from IDB. On the Wlorld Bank's advice, PCJ
negotiated with Union of Texas/Agip an agreement on the exploration of the
offshore Pedro Bank area (Block C) with a carried equity interest where all
risks and expenses are borne by the private parties during the exploration
phase (thus minimizing PCJ's risk) until a commercial discovery is made. At
that moment, PCJ may elect to assume a 10% equity interest and maximize the
benefits to the country of a commercial find. To enable PCJ to exercise its
equity interest option, foreign exchange resources must be readily available
to it. It has accordingly requested the Bank to include funds in the proposed
project for this purpose and for carried equity participation in other off-
shore blocks now being negotiated. It has also asked the Bank to finance
technical assistance that would enable PCJ to monitor the activities of the
private companies.
66.       Although the response from the private sector has been favorable,
the expected minimum commitments in Blocks A and D now under discussion with
Union of Texas/Agip are not sufficient for a thorough evaluation of petroleum
prospects. Should the consortium limit itself to their minimum commitment,
PCJ wishes to have foreign exchange funds available, if justified with the
information at that time, to go beyond the exploration work programs of the
companies by utilizing its sole risk option (see para 64). PCJ would do so
essentially to complete exploration work initiated by the consortium but which
the consortium might decide to leave unfinished. Typical examples of this
type of exploration investments include the side tracking or the deepening of
one or more wells, further testing of wells, or the shooting of more seismic
lines. In all of these circumstances, the proceeds of the proposed loan which
are allocated to the exploration component of the project, while insufficient
to finance a full fledged exploration program under a sole risk option, would
be sufficient for PCJ to complete work left unfinished by the consortium, so



- 19 -
as to arrive at conclusive results. If such results warrant, PCJ would then
be in a position to induce the return of the consortium partners, seek other
partners, or proceed with the project under service contracts for which
additional financing would be sought. It would not be possible, however, to
know in advance the need for additional exploration. Since the notice of need
is likely to be short, foreign exchange funds would have to be made available
promptly to allow PCJ to undertake the work. PCJ therefore requested the Bank
to include funds in the proposed project for exploration that might otherwise
be unduly postponed.
67.       Civen the burden of petroleum imports on Jamaica's economy, and the
country's generally untested geological prospects, the Government's plans to
promote exploration are reasonable and urgent. In addition to the technical
and financial support that the Bank could provide, its involvement could lead
to improvements in the energy sector as a whole and result in further interest
in oil and gas investment in Jamaica on the part of foreign private investors.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
68.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Jamaica in February 1980 and appraised in January 1981. Loan
negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1981. The Jamaican delega-
tion was headed by Mr. W. Saunders, Managing Director of PCJ. A loan and
project summary appears at the beginning of this report, and a supplementary
project data sheet is given in Annex III. Since this is an engineering/tech-
nical assistance loan, no Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared, but
Annex IV provides details on Jamaica's geology and Annex V on the Borrower.
Project Objectives
69.       The ftmdamental objective of the project is to reduce the increasing
cost of petroleum imports to the Jamaican economy through promotion of explora-
tion of the country's hydrocarbon potential.  Within the next two years, it is
expected that exploration work will take place in Jamaica after an interruption
of more than eight years. The exploration program should provide for at least
seven wells onshore and two wells offshore with private sector involvement.
Exploration offshore would require the continuous involvement of PCJ in
monitoring exploration work and in assessing the results to decide whether
they should exercise their right to participate financially (paras 65-67) or
to accelerate exploration under the sole risk option. The objectives of the
proposed project are primarily to provide the technical and financial means
required to enable PCJ to play a meaningful role in a program which should
provide a comprehensive evaluation of Jamaica's hydrocarbon potential. The
project will also provide technical assistance to PCJ for its other activities.
Project Description
70.       The proposed project would include the following:



- 20 -
(a) Exploration: Exploration by PCJ of the offshore Pedro Bank
as an equity partner of private oil companies (i.e., the
financing of its carried equity interest), or, under certain
circumstances, by exercising a sole risk option for activities
such as well sidetracking, deepening, testing and shooting of
seismic lines (paras. 62-65).
(b) Technical Assistance, Training and Equipment: PCJ would
acquire laboratory equipment and hire needed consulting exper-
tise in geophysics, geology, micropaleontology, petroleum
economics and engineering, to train its staff, to monitor
exploration work undertaken by companies and to undertake its
other responsibilities including the import and distribution of
petroleum products in Jamaica.
(c) Offshore Seismic Survey: About 2,300 line-km of seismic data
would be acquired and processed covering the shelf between
Jamaica's southern coast and 200 m water depth line, an area
that is less known geologically.
(d) Oil Recovery Study: Feasibility study for a project to recycle
imported lubricating oil.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
71.       PCJ's share of the proposed project is estimated at US$8.4 mil-
lion, of which US$7.5 million, or about 80 percent, is foreign exchange. 1/
About 50% of this amount is accounted for by technical assistance and a
seismic survey; the other 50% would finance PCJ's share of exploration under
conditions described in paras 56 and 61-64. An allowance of 10 percent of
the baseline costs has been made to cover physical contingencies and is
considered reasonable. Price contingencies take into account the projected
implementation schedule as well as any likely increases in price levels which
ire projected to increase by 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, and 7.5% thereafter.
Because of the nature of this component, the provisions for contingencies
inore the uncertainties connected with drilling. The decision as to the
extent of exploration investments will be taken in the course of project
inplementation, taking into account the information and budget available.
Itie total provision for contingencies represents 33 percent of baseline costs
or 25 percent of total project costs. The cost of the 50 man-months of
consulting services required for the technical assistance component and for
the lubricating oil recovery study has been estimated at US$15,000 per man-
month including travel, subsistence and overhead. This amount is acceptable,
taking into account the high level of specialized expertise involved and
-.alaries prevailing in the industry.
72.       The proposed loan of US$7.5 million would be made to PCJ with the
giarantee of the Government of Jamaica and would finance the foreign exchange
costs of the project. The loan would be repayable in 17 years, including four
-:ars. of grace at 9.6% interest per annum.  PCJ would pay the Government a
guarantee fee of 1% per annum. The local costs would be financed by PCJ. The
Government intends to exempt the project from taxes and duties.
I    Th;e total costs do not include drilling and other costs borne by the
foreign oil companies.



- 21 -
Project Implementation
73.       Foreign oil companies would be responsible for executing the explora-
tion component of the project, under the supervision of PCJ, except in the
event PCJ decides to exercise its sole risk option. In the latter instance,
PCJ would be expected to employ the same contractors used by the oil companies
to carry out the work. Before committing funds for the financing of an
equity participation or an exercise of th sole risk option, PCJ would have
to seek the Bank's approval (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Such approval would be granted if the Bank is satisfied that the oil revenues
(to PCJ and to the economy as a whole) which can be reasonably expected from
PCJ's proposed investment, would yield financial and economic rates of return
of at least 20%, after adjusting reserve and production estimates by applying
such risk factors as are generally accepted in the industry under the specific
circumstances prevailing at the time of the decision. To this end, the
proposed project includes funds to finance the services of exploration and
drilling consultants whose expertise would be relied upon, by PCJ and by
the Bank as well, to assess the comparative merits of (i) taking up an equity
participation; (ii) conducting additional exploration, or (iii) developing
a field of little interest to the international companies. The consultants'
terms of reference would specify that their assessment would be based on
the above mentioned rate-of-return criteria and that they would provide
PCJ and the Bank with all the supporting evidence underlying their conclusion.
The consultants would also assist PCJ in co-ordinating and supervising the
work of the contractors. All consultants would be acceptable to PCJ and the
Bank and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to PCJ and the Bank.
74.       PCJ would be responsible for the seismic survey, the acquisition of
laboratory and other equipment and the lubricating oil recovery study which it
would carry out with the assistance of consultants and private contractors.
75.       Whether the lubricating oil recovery project should be implemented
by PCJ or left to the private sector can only be determined after the proposed
study has been completed, particularly in view of the present Government's
stated intention to reduce the scope of activities of public sector enterprises.
Accordingly, assurances would be sought during negotiations that on completion
of the study the Bank would be consulted regarding the implementation of its
recommendations (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
76.       The international oil companies have their own procedures in procur-
ing goods and services. Since it is not possible at this time to determine
whether PCJ will participate financially in exploration activities using Bank
funds, it would be impractical to ask the private oil companies involved to
follow the Bank's formal procurement procedures. Nevertheless, in their own
interest, these companies procure goods and services that are competitive in
price and quality, and appropriate for the purposes in view. Therefore, for
the exploration component, the procurement procedures of the oil companies
would be used. Prior to commitment of Bank funds for this component, however,
the Bank would confirm that the procedures followed were competitive, in
accordance with industry practice and efficient. This is most likely to be
the case since there are two foreign companies involved that would be monitoring



- 22 -
each other's practices in their own self-interest. In addition, the companies
would be required to provide PCJ with sufficient evidence that the consortium
did follow proper procedures before allocating these expenses to PCJ or charging
them against a hydrocarbon discovery.
77.       Contracting for the seismic survey by PCJ will follow international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Because of the
specialized nature of the equipment for the technical assistance component and
the small amount involved ($400,000), equipment would be procured on the basis
of limited international tendering.
78.      The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed under normal documentation
on the following basis:
(a) PCJ's equity share (10% of the exploration expenditures
on Block C and 20% of the expenditures on Blocks A or D,
up to a maximum of US$3.8 million);
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures on exploration by
PCJ on the sole risk option;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for the offshore seismic
survey and for the equipment; and
(d) 100% of expenditures for consultant services.
79.       The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1984, and
the proceeds of the Bank loan fully disbursed by mid-1985, assuming the loan
is made effective by September 30, 1981. Should funds allocated to finance
exploration not be used for those purposes within three years of effectiveness,
they would be cancelled.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
80.       PCJ would keep separate accounts for the project to be financed by
the Bank. These accounts as well as those of PCJ as a whole would be audited
by external auditors acceptable to PCJ and the Bank. PCJ would submit audit
reports to the Bank not later than four months after the close of the fiscal
year. PCJ will submit quarterly progress reports in a format acceptable to
the Bank and prepare a project completion report.
Project Benefits and Risk
81.       Given the burden of petroleum imports on Jamaica's economy, the
Government's plans to promote exploration are reasonable and urgent.  The risk
associated with the exploration component would be borne by the international
private oil companies. Once a commercial discovery is made PCJ would benefit
to the extent of its 10% carried equity interest and share some of the limited
risk associated with a development project. The main risk to PCJ is if it
should exercise its sole risk option and no hydrocarbons are found. However,
the risks to PCJ, and to Jamaica, would not be as great as the initial risk to



- 23 -
the oil companies, since a decision to exercise the "sole risk" option would
he made at a time when much more and better information would be available.
M4oreover, the "sole risk" option would enable Jamaica to take advantage of an
eventual opportunity for making investments that may be highly justifiable --
an opportunity that may be lost if foreign exchange is not readily available.
Furthermore, as discussed in para. 64, the availability of funds to PCJ for
the sole risk component would not only accelerate exploration with a relatively
small incremental investment, but it would also encourage PCJ's foreign part-
ners to perform additional exploration to maximize their potential profit,
given PCJ's capacity to participate on terms that would shift the profit split
more favorably to Jamaica. (The probable savings in mobilization costs alone
far outweigh the cost to PCJ of the Bank's commitment fee).
82.       The benefit from the seismic survey is that information obtained
might attract further private investment and put the Government in a position
to negotiate additional exploration contracts with work commitments in line
with the country's potential. Any ensuing hydrocarbon discovery would have
a significant positive impact on the country's economy. The risk associated
with this component is that the data presented to the oil companies may not be
attractive enough for them to enter into exploration contracts. This risk is
considered acceptable because of the large benefits that would accrue to the
country if an exploitable find were made.
83.       The technical assistance component would strengthen PCJ institution-
ally and permit it to carry out its day to day responsibilities even if these
are not extended to cover offshore exploration of hydrocarbons. The lubrica-
ting oil recovery study would confirm the best and most efficient method to
recover used oil. There are no special risks and the economic benefits in
terms of foreign exchange saved, if an ensuing project is carried out, are
likely to be substantial.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AIUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Petroleum Corpora-
tion of Jamaica, the draft Guarantee Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii),
of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the usual
pattern of agreements on petroleum exploration projects. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section 3 of Annex III to this report.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 28, 1981



-25-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (UEICHTED AVE7ACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              11.0
AGRICULTURAL       4. 8                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CAPIBBFAN           EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  470.0        830.0    1240.0                1562.9                    2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      426.0       1325.0    1823.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       1.6          1. 9      2.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.0          41.4      48.2          -       63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           5.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2065
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       145.0        173.0     191.0                  28. 1                     77.2
PER SQ. 1K4. AGRICULTURAL LAND    327.0       392.0      438.0                  81. 7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.7         45.9      42.7                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          54.0        48.5       51.4                  54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.3          5.6       5.9                   3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.5/c        1.4/c     1. 7/c                2.7                       1.6
URBAN                               3.8          3.5       3.8                   4.1                       3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      39.0         35.0      29.0                  34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       9.0          8.0       6.0                   3.9                       8.q
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          2.7       2.2                   2.5                       1.5
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         19.3      27.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-10O)           98.0        99.0       95.0                 106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    91.0       111.0      119.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.0         67.0      70.0                  65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0         33.0      35.0                 33. 7                     39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       7.0          4.0       3.0                   8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    64.0          67.8      70.0                  63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            63.0         36.0      20.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         62.0      86.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ..        100.0     100.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..         48.0      79.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         94.0      94.0                  62.3
URBAN                                          100.0     100.0                  79.6
RURAL                                ..         92.0      91.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2600.0      2630.0    3523.0                 1849.2                    1030. 1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1990.Ojd    1710.0      547.0                1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             241. 0/d     243.0     263.0                 4F0.3                     2P9.7
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      19.0                                            17.0
HOU S ING
AVERAGE' SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               3. 9         4.3
URBAN                               2. 7          ..
RURAL                               4. 8          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.9          1.6
URBAN                               1.6           ..
RURAL                               2.0           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         27.0
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..



-26-                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
JAMAICA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAFES
- MOST RECENT ESTIHATE) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLL4ENT RATIOS
PRDIARY:     TOTAL                92.0       118.0      97.0                  99.7                   105.9
MALE                 92.0       118.0      96.0                 101.0                   109.3
FEHALE               93.0       118.0      98.0                  99.4                   103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                45.0        45.0       58.0                 34.4                    64.0
HALE                 44.0        45.0      54.0                  33.5                    71.1
FEIALE               46.0        45.0      62.0                  34.7                    56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  9.0          5.5        4.0                 38.2                    28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           55.0        47.0       39.0                 30.5                    29.4
SECONDARY                         21.0        26.0      28.0                  14.5                    26.1
ADnLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       82.0         85.4      86.0                 76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        20.0        39.0      45.0                  43.0                    84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        90.0       266.0     270.0                 245.3                   192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        37.0      54.0                  84.2                   118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 63.0       114.0      90.0                  63.3                    93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..       0.2                    ..                     5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      606.9       631.5      714.8
FEHALE (PERCENT)                  37.2        39.0      39.2                  22.2                    30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             39.0        29.0       28.0                 37.1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                25.0        26.0      17.0                  23.5                    29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               37.3        33.8       33.1                 31.5                    40.9
MALE                                48.8        42.3       41.2                 48.9                    55.9
FEMALE                              26.7        25.7       25.2                 14.0                    26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2          1.5       1.4                  1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.2/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.2/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2. 2.e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8. 2*e
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      501.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      439.0                190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      585.0                474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     509.0                 332.5                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0
Not available
Hot applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  L 1963;  /e 1958.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-27-                                                                                ANNEX I
T g e 3 7of 6
Nones:  Although the data are dranc  ee  soutce  generaYllyjugedtesa   uhrr                     eudrhul,i  shold uobenoed that they may net he inner-
eateely-     omparabl  because- of the loch of stadard.e         Ieiutoscd concept  nee  ho1 ~different   .. cotor ltesin cleno              h  dora.  The dote are, none-
thels,ueuIodesrboodtso    .aotue                     tldInn  trenAl,  ur.d chrott-         ecetanreodferene-               eteonsntfe
of one  ndtcano  eta  tie osongthe coutry 0P raeOnce Egroope.'m-r9   --   h.   hf.n .,
Toa      oa   uf oct  area  thoelln  hodaraa    nls  eaer..ican  q Aliie                                  dfo   a medicl  schoo  a th .  beinersta  leve.
d.t. for                                                    e~~onltinco  BsiniBe     roeh  once.t  andtrural- onpleth-   (totl
COPFI  CPIA  Ci)  -lO  pr  oyte  tnaenatcuren  mrkr  ries,cc-                           rhn,an  ro 're)dted   by dhi  respcien               mbredcpia bd
culanod hy  ane converLco - monb t be go -id-oh   ta  (1917-Pg   baie     ihy,          avilbl           Th ybli  an-rvt,     eea   s   peilsdhsie                    e
loRNCI9CItII  fi   APT -o  deohu -coosumptio o.f- cr        calorg   (01                  rreaenn  nldd                  Rua   hosptls, bosestli   he-lede hath. -1-sedo
endI  lignte, psrfieu   natura. ligot an ydo,nuland             d  enbro  rc-                   etrsnnpemortystfe   by, ay phanciotad (hu by                a mdcl  easl-" ieteh r,
A,,i,,I,,,:l - E-ti..te of  g'i-   "' illld -t--lsi.,nlade 1ified prnialgnra   n  sotls                                           opiasdsdma
O                  PiPIT.ATIiNfo   dli  ITl ITtINIIhoptasdoalorrra  hsit    aed med                                                                                     .icadstemn etrs
dote,                                                                               from  heepines dIvided by th  nuberof bede.J
GPoPul AtIon it Un yea  NPOl      orc  pon-i-n Pro ection   are hrieed Os  199                 anbhi-an              .Ahare   rlde  nay orsa  e   be Isnldedt in1
tnl peuetnb   g   n   eadtermraiyed  enlm    as,                                       nchueodfra    aia  purpat              I
197e nsl  an7d.d lcl   ieepcac    ebliga   P1yas    h   aa                                  dsblIrg--I reapeotd1ive dy.    twllicgs teeP-tludso-pormfahoe tstmctobad.
ant    friloytens  o             proe   ds hupoe .                                           ofttlrrbn nJ             ueldehcerepciey
l         kanieea .. p ulanof-lnaenan.i_nayd p...u..anic     I cho e in  o gowt  tintsd.R 1h,t.                                             -     di.ld   .lt             -i
saInt osnatant.  Thin in achieved nelyn after.fdrfel lop)rate ahdecline to  tA)tsted inretieestdtoilet
PPLTIeN rpaceetlvlo   nt   e   eodci    as   bmon  geuITtln                                   Pimaryd achogl of tal,d sale  e     ml     re   otl   aeedCe
Tear eta"tloaypplne i9ece      h  year. whndmiimsp opltinionesom   puilsIB ar  heT ... Ihont th  dfioti..a                                                  t sce  age.dh
tetleeoc                                                                             ussityet 1  I  17ldl  byer  ofe  ab. g o; coeepod  ee   5    5aegess
Jeir;191    1960,an  19709 .da.                                                           Pnu-ere   ai      omr.adseodr      oe   tet    noldi
populaton;  199, 19PC  aed  " 9PCPdata.           .        r.dm..tlA ...iiTlCRh.d)
1ed   et to11ts Iee byhnsand( - Asnua  dhearh  peJhuodo    i-er                         Pnaercr   prtome   oaaie       a ae   recmrs   ae
Pt IeltIyPatraulyfv-er    rgno  ig in, 1980  1f70, ond 1970                                 brod cthos Ili  enerll~ public, per thenuand      y P p   hplteseoldsa -
of -i.-c   ..c dovine  undr.. eupco   f  olae   tcl  planiocprthu.sa  In. holdet  daafoor                         ce    rant may nono.   he  nom  othl  s.ince.d mee
fog   .721     -t bit I                                          Ao-g~~~~~~~~~~en coannie  end inyaswe-ogsrn         o   Vnt   ast   te
Ineso t  sdPodcrs   peTh.a(9h-711     tdso   e   np.lraanal                                  moo  "du_i  Peota_  "Isteme   roeppso",defI edeappidclub
yfsdntilit of all t food osemodinies      h. Prdelesecoef       sdan   edan-aano    eeltedpimarly  srcriggnel  w.R   sc                                               se
teah sor    .  Isned  h. Agegt _jRedso         _o nehoiunr 11is based             on        ticket  mold  dop  g  h    ea,ictds  amsiosi  dn_:'' iv."t-ietnremasd
per day,  bailable  eupplien os... dnci  pouto,ipre  eu                          Otl1av Porve(thoaaide   -1 toosoiral   ciepres   nld
qamntnis usd t  fod prcesing,andbesti-   h on ioeoIdor   esqolth  lfinitione  to-b                     ta   iotyie   are no  lioompa s-  98,t 17ten
nthspl   ffe   e   a.Snepl  ffoo  tint tsir   as above. te-                                ae   lorrn,etrodgsepretg    lttllbrfre   91
qofrnents      d for all o ..e.s entali h.edt by . liA     ie  mreniu                        P  an_   99  ae
alloe'ndr0of 60 grems ef nhen   noei   per1 dayn end                      11 gmofanalcd Pri-lptien tote(ere   -1 nea.d sale.  ea-frda-  atiip                      1eee
ends ar  lowertime tose ofph  rm  of~t  htoialpro.tein and th5 grams of.1 .                      o        W   -   h   rit                     -t&.o  l..
Pe    nia  roensry I00   ronacma and eus-Pronlt   supyoffo.tg-o    nctn  of.-'g  ohspepulttie, endlsn ninale thild.. A . fe 6et-1
lot IM".                                                             Pri-~~~~~~~~~~~~~mtes arIho.ntonl oros
rivedt from animalst end pal hs i  grm Ton dy;rle 19 t1-85, 190 .n 19)7  ctI                I    .o.mi tereedth  aro -..a...    c  pultonfee 5ed5adee
Chld(geo-) Mid-y..lnyRatsd(peythhosadl -tAnoal_de`ne.perdbkutetd In                       no the   etal labr foens
age group 1-  pes Pe, Pno c idre  inr thIs . g ilgoup;  on 0 nonhevtelopingf            ed..eua-Ptd--b..
tenet data derived teem  hg5  iebles; 1960  1971tand71977 dataf  gftIiNt"lItTsIiffIO
isto" pecincy-t Brth(.es-)   Avragenonen o  pers o  lie onolnog                              f heneblde
at girt; -160  1970 co  197R data.      .b    frgj_  . e    -
of ag  pe   hnadlv    its                                                                 o imetd AboesPvet   om   evl(9leep   ie    nebm   nd rual 
hee.s te  op  tno  (perce         -t of  oChlatde- tonal. arhas E,  1, andki enrol   -          Abenldet  poetyb d1 incomelevlis tha  imen  level helen sio  at ti.i.
Nube tf eol  (tonal  ar.n, and Prrl)wt  remnel  ao -a topafe                          nutritionally  adeqate.. dietf plus dll semia nstit        rquiemntsisre
waerl euppl (;nin9Oludee 97 teed marl -c aeeo ntreate  bet snoostaminaned                    affordahie.. in.p,
water sach as that lees protected boreholee  sprigt, redl  sntary erle  as      itimtedclt    Poveom    ncdm leve.11ro   anl- endin   ae
perentge  ofterosenv    uuelm.   na   ra    ropbi                                             e     eltv    oet          eelvli  on-thr Tef. aver te per                . a its
notisenoGble   h ocet  sen-deimply than I th  hA-Jif  or nebet- of thehoscd                  lvl  iha)mnn.frhge   oto  living- in-dinam  areas.th
do son I hoet1 pn9      aderpminaepn   fc6                 e   oftblnteadrua ,son   of9peynlerie  (aias and eael  she ar   abena ee"
uternedn  tehLte  ulees da (       7rs    fsenale-onlubatn
ruaD    ube   fpol  (tonal,urban  ad-h rpalerve .. d ofscrie--                         OSMTO
CPposatl mylelud60  the970   ecuo e    nd198dt: dipoal   it  o  ebd   ceemctho                                             oemcnelpised  Prpojetmoescpepartmen-t.
of. Rbumacticrna Re at-ater. ..9     byro eae-b  htv cys ens :rilb use.inh lgt of'Iiebe  lBRO                                                                      ..
pierplean   Iia                   if.ealgnitin



ANNEX I
-28-                                        Page 4 of 6
JAMAICA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
JAMAICA
Population:       2.2 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,240 (1979)
Amount
(million US$ at
Indicators                    current prices)                                Actual
1979             1975      1976       1977       1978        1979     1980
PRICES
GDP deflator (1974-100)                                121.2      134.9      150.9      190.2      218.9    294.3
Exchange rate (J$ per US$)                               0.91       0.91       1.25       1.48       1.77      1.78
Share of GDP at market prices (%)        Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                (at constant 1974 prices)
a/                                        1975       1978      1980                   1975/78  1978/80
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS-
Gross Domestic Product                       2,521       100.0      100.0      100.0                     -2.9     -3.0
Agriculture                                177         7.7        9.5        8.6                     4.3      -7.8
Industry                                   953        36.4       32.6       30.9                    -6.4      -5.6
Services                                 1,264        55.9       57.9       60.5                    -1.8      -0.8
Consumption                                  2,163        84.8       83.6       90.0                     -1.3     -2.5
Gross Domestic Investment                      396        26.0       15.0       15.4                    -21.0     -0.9
Exports GNFS                                 1,169        34.6       42.1       39.0                     10.4      2.3
Imports GNFS                                 1,207        45.4       40.7       44.4                      2.7      2.6
Gross National Savings                         225        16.7       11.2        6.5                    -17.3    -29.7
As Z of GDP
1975/76              1977/78              1980/81 -t
PUBLIC FINANCE -/
Current Reven e                                                     24.5                  21.4                 22.8
Current Expenditure                                                 24.1                  27.9                 27.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                           0.4                  -6.4                 -5.1
Capital Expenditure                                                 11.7                  11.1                  9.8
Foreign Finance (net)                                                3.8                   0.7                  6.0
a/ At market prices; components are earesus  at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net
indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Fiscal year - April l/March 31.
c/ Estimated.



ANNEX I
-29-                                Page 5 of 6
1975-78              1978-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                 -3.3                -5.2
GrP per capita growth rate t%)                                      -4.5                -5.4
ICOR                                                               -15.4               -14.5
N8aginal savings rate                                               n.a.                n.a.
Import elasticity                                                    5.0                 1.6
Amount                    Annual Growth Rates (E)
(million US$ at-            (at constant  1974 prices)
current prices)                       Actual
1980         1976       1977       1978      1979        1980
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                      858           -12.8        7.2        2.3       2.2        -1.5
Traditional                            693           -18.7       12.3      -0.8       -0.6        -1.3
Nontraditional                         165            27.5      -15.3      20.1       15.2        -2.6
Merchandise imports                    1,170           -22.5      -28.6        9.8      -5.3        -4.3
Food                                    90           -35.5      -50.8      42.2      -13.6        -6.8
Fuels                                  440            -9.8        7.1     -21.8       41.1         8.0
Machinery & Equipment                  190           -35.4      -43.5      23.8      -24.6       -14.7
Other                                  450           -14.6      -30.0      21.6       16.7        -9.3
PRICES (1974=100)
Export price index                                     121.3      132.3     130.6      134.6       153.0
Import price index                                     121.0      138.7     146.3      179.1       218.1
Terms of trade index                                   100.2       95.4       89.2      75.2        70.1
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)         Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current price_)                (at constant 1974 prices)
1975         1978       1980                  1975-78    1978-80
Exports                                  100.0         100.0      100.0                  -1.5         0.3
Traditional                             87.3          82.8       80.8                  -3.2        -0.9
Nontraditional                          12.7          17.2       19.2                   9.1         5.9
Imports                                  100.0         100.0      100.0                 -15.0        -4.8
Food                                    11.6           8.6        7.7                 -23.3       -10.3
Fuel                                    19.1          22.4       37.6                 -10.8        23.5
Machinery and equipment                 30.8          22.9       16.2                 -23.3       -19.8
Other                                   38.5          46.1       38.5                 -10.1      -13.1



-30-                                   ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions at current prices)
Actual                     b'
Indicator                                                 1976      1977       1978       1979       1980-
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                                881        916        972      1159       1258
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                              617        721       728        767        858
Imports of goods and services                               1203       1016      1094       1410       1633
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                              913        747       865       1003       1170
Net transfers                                                  6         20         26        80        100
Current account balance                                     -316        -80       -96       -171       -275
Private direct investment                                     -          -         -          -          -
Public capital                                               102         -3       139         17         95
Other capital                                                -30         -5      -150          6         62
Allocation of SDRs                                            -          -          -         10         10
Change in reservesa/                                        -244        -88      -107       -138       -108
Gross International reserves (end year)                       29        39         59         62         93
Reserves as months imports                                     0.38       0.63       0.82      0.74       0.95
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                          198        118        225       227        181
Extertnal IIeot
Debt outstanding and disbursed                            880       942       1055       1183       1295
Official (end year)
O/W IBRD                                                 59        A-        112        127        171
Undisbursed debt (end year)                               252        308       385        381        387
0/W Ifl f,                                               68       101         99        139         a9
Debt service
Public service payments                                   109       151        192        208        169
Interest                                                 53        61         71         96         95
Payments as % of exports                                   12.4       16.5      19.8       17.9       1 .4
a/ Includes commercial arrears.
h/ Preliminary.
April 3, 1981



- 31-                                ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANTK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (As of March 31, 1981)
----US$ million----
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                                       (less cancellation)
No.    Year           Borrower                  Purpose            Bank    Undisbursed
10 loans fully disbursed a/                                         89.9
727    1971  Jamaica                      Education                13.5          .5
1003    1974  Jamaica                      Sites & Services         15.0         5.2
1032    1975  Jamaica                      H.ighways                13.5         1.9
1043    1975  Jamaica                      Airports                 12.5         0.1
1146    1975  The Water Commission         Sewerage/Water           15.0         4.1
12R4    1976  Jamaica                      Population                6.8         3.7
1464    1977  Jamaica                      Rural Development        15.0         9.7
1516    1978  Jamaica Public Service       Power                    20.0        10.1
Company Ltd.
1517    1978  Sugar Industry Authority   Agriculture                18.0         8.1
1609    1979  Jamaica                      Small Scale Industry    7.0           2.6
1715    1979  Jamaica                       Second Program Loan    31.5          0.9
1716    1979  Jamaica                      Forestry                 12.0         8.9
1740    1979  Jamaica                      Highways                 16.0        12.7
Total (net cancellations)                           285.7
of which has been repaid                             29.1
Total now outstanding                               256.6
Amount sold                     1.6
of which has been repaid        1.6                   0.0
Total now held by Bank                              256.6
Total undisbursed                                                68.5
a/   Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican Telephone
Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 32 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1981
Type of                      US$ million
Date           Borrower               Business                 Loan   Equity   Total
1961   Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.    Pre-mix concrete                 0.2       -      0.2
1969   Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.            Tourism                       2.2      0.7      2.9
1980   West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.            Glass containers              2.3       -       2.3
4.7     0.7      5.4
Less cancellations, terminations,
participations, sales and repayments                  1.8       -       1.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                       2.9      0.7      3.6
Total Undisbursed                                       2.3       -       2.3
C.   Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 1003-JM: Sites and Services Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 13, 1974; Effective date: September 9, 1974;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 4-1/2 years behind schedule due to
delays in establishing and staffing the project unit and problems with con-
tractors. These delays resulted in a cost overrun of the original project
of about 25%. In view of the Government's budgetary constraints the project
has therefore been restructured to allow for some reduction in the number of
lots to be developed and for a significant reduction in housing standards.
The revised project is expected to be completed by mid-1982.
Ln. No. 1032-JM: Third Highway Project: US$13.5 million
Loan of July 26, 1974; Effective date: September 27, 1974;
Closing date: September 30, 1981.
Construction has been delayed due to shortages of engineering
staff, reliable equipment, cement and asphalt. The project is now scheduled
for completion in mid 1981, about four years later than the appraisal estimate,
and the closing date has been extended to September 30, 1981.



- 33 -                               ANNEX II
Page 3 ot 4
Ln. No. 1146-JN: Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project: US$15 million
Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective date: June 24, 1976;
Closing date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is more than 3 years behind the appraisal
schedule but is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Borrower's financial
position has, however, continuously deteriorated. A 35% tariff increase will
take effect June 1, 1981 but additional measures will be required of the
Borrower in order to comply with the Loan Agreement.
Ln. No. 1284-JM:  Second Population Project:  US$6.8 million
Loan of June 12, 1976; Effective date:  August 30, 1976;
Closing date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation has progressed reasonably well. The civil
works on health center facilities are expected to be completed by mid 1981.
Disbursements are however lagging behind. Completion of other project compo-
nents is expected to be delayed until early 1982.
Ln. No. 1464-JM:  Rural Development Project:  US$15 million
Loan of June 29, 1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977;
Closing date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and the difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. The first group
of settlers have been placed and farm home construction initiated.
Ln. No. 1516-JM: Second Power Project: IJS$20 million
Loan of March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978;
Closing date: September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consider-
able delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most of
the loan proceeds have been committed. JPSC's operations have been seriously
affected by the limited availability of its most fuel efficient generating
units due to poor maintenance and operating procedures and a lack of spare
parts. The Government has requested a Bank loan for the rehabilitation of
these units, for improvements to JPSC's system and for the development of
hydro resources. Although JPSC's financial position has improved, an increase
in tariffs will be required to meet the agreed covenant.
Ln. No. 1517-J?:  Sugar Rehabilitation Project:  US$18 million
Loan of March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978;
Closing date: June 30, 1983.
Although progress in the rehabilitation of factories is satisfactory,
the financial position of the National Sugar Company, executor of the project,
remains difficult. Favorable developments of world sugar prices and the
availability of harvesting and transportation equipment to be financed from
previously unallocated loan proceeds are expected to result in an increase in
cane production and have a positive effect on NSC's financial position.



ANNEX II
- 34 -                                 Page 4 of 4
Ln. No. 1609-JM:  Small Scale Enterprise Development Project:  US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date:  December 27, 1978;
Closing date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Implementation of the program for very small scale enterprises has been
adversely affected by the uncertainty concerning the institutional arrange-
ments, but is expected to improve with the merger between two agencies into
a new institution--Small Industry Finance Company (SIFCO).
Ln. No. 1715-JM: Second Program Loan: US$31.5 million
Loan of June 8, 1979; Effective date: August 27, 1979;
Closing date: December 31, 1982.
Loan proceeds allocated to the Export Development Fund to finance
imports of raw materials and components for expansion of nontraditional
exports have been fully disbursed. Implementation of the technical assis-
tance components financed with loan proceeds is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1716-JM:  Forestry Project:  US$12 million
Loan of June 8, 1979; Effective date: December 11, 1979;
Closing date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule but is proceeding satis-
factorily. Actual planting and clearing remained below targets due to
inadequate planning, late arrival of equipment and poor weather conditions.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million
Loan of July 10, 1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979;
Closing date: March 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, shortages of
key staff and of budget resources. In view of the Government's difficult
budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project has
been restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential maintenance
work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic maintenance.
Ln. No. 1978-JM: Second Export Development Project: US$37 million
Loan of May 15, 1981; Effective date:                , 1981;
Closing date: December 31, 1983.
The loan includes an additional US$22 million for financing of
imports of raw materials and spare parts for expansion of nontraditional
exports. In addition US$10 million are allocated to provide medium-term
financing to exporters and their suppliers for capital equipment and working
capital. US$4 million are to be used for financing inputs of imports for
the banana industry and US$1 million is for technical assistance to JECIC
and JNEC. This loan is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
Jamaica
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government/Consultants
(c) Identification Mission: February 1980
(d) Appraisal Mission: January 1981
(e) Negotiations: May 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action: None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The domestic prices of petroleum products should reflect
international prices for such products (para. 50).
(b) PCJ shall maintain on a year-to-year basis, a total debt
service coverage ratio of not less than 2:1; a quick
ratio (current assets minus inventories over current
liabilities) of not less than 1:1; a term debt to equity
ratio of less than 1:1, and capitalized expenditures in
oil and gas exploration projects which shall not exceed,
at any time 70% of PCJ's equity (para. 55).
(c) the Government will not require PCJ to distribute
dividends if by doing so the above financial covenants
are breached, and to inject fresh capital in PCJ if
this proves necessary for PCJ to abide by those covenants
(para. 55).
(d) Before committing funds to equity participation or any "sole
risk" activity, PCJ will seek the Bank's prior approval
(paras. 73 and 76).
(e) The Bank will be consulted regarding the implementation
of the recommendations of the lubricating oil recovery study
(para. 75).



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page lof 12
JAMAICA
Hydrocarbon Geology and Status of Exploration
1.        The following paragraphs first discuss Jamaica's petroleum geology
for the country as a whole and then specifically that of the Pedro Bank area.
I.   Jamaica's Petroleum Geology
A.   Stratigraphy
(i) Cretaceous
2.        Rocks of this age are present across the entire island, extending
particularly from the Central Inlier to the West, and belonging to an eugeo-
synclinal facies. Effective or economic basement for hydrocarbon exploration,
both onshore Jamaica and beneath Pedro Bank, can probably be considered the
mildly metamorphosed pre-Late Campanian sediments. Silicic plutons are known
to intrude all pre-Late Campanian rocks and, on Pedro Bank and at the Above
Rocks area, possibly the post-Late Campanian sediments. Campanian and
Maestrichtian rocks are more abundant than older Cretaceous rocks, and become
less volcanic from east to west. In general, the upper Cretaceous rocks of
Jamaica show considerable variations in thicknesses and facies, with a large
portion of the section being typified by lenticular beds which pinch out or
change facies laterally. The Maestrichtian limestone beds are predominantly
patch reefs which pinch out rapidly, making correlations very difficult. The
general pattern of facies changes is a westward thickening wedge of sediments
in which deltaic conditions fluctuated with shallow, open marine conditions,
where rudistid patch reefs were formed. Recurrent uplift of the basin margins
caused influxes of marine, lagoonal, brackish and non-marine conditions with
complex interdigitating facies. The Late Maestrichtian is typified by a more
general westward regression and spread of continental red-bed deposition.
Eastern Jamaica was at the same time subject to greater instability, thick
marine deposits were alternating with extensive volcanic lava flows and
volcanic clastics.
(ii) Tertiary
3.        Onshore Jamaica, Late Paleocene to Early Eocene strata are known
from the northern flank of the Blue Mountains, the Wagwater Belt and the Saint
Ann Inlier. Partially equivalent rocks were most probably penetrated by some
of the wells drilled onshore (such as Content No. 1, West Negril No. 1 and
Negril Spots No. 1). The stratigraphic relationships of these rocks are very
complex and as yet imperfectly understood. However, it is known that several
thousand feet of unmetamorphosed sedimentary rocks of post-Cretaceous age
occur beneath the Yellow Limestone Group. These sediments include continental
red-beds, marine shales, sandstones and conglomerates, plus thick reefal
limestone masses and locally volcanic lava flows. A proper juxtaposition of
marine shales with porous reefal limestones and/or porous sandstones will make
an attractive prospect within this interval.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page Z of 12
4.        The Yellow Limestone Group has a widespread distribution onshore
Jamaica, and derives its name from the oxidized, yellow-brownish terrigenous
detrital-matter contained by the otherwise pure white limestone beds. The
Yellow Limestone Group grades vertically and laterally onto the White Lime-
stone Group, as the terrigenous matter-content decreases. It is probably that
a similar diachronous boundary will also occur in the Pedro Bank area.
Onshore, the Yellow Limestone Group has two distinct facies: (a) A shallow-
water limestone facies, that includes interbedded terrigenous clastics,
lignites and anhydrite stringers, and which may also include conglomerates and
coarse conglomeratic feldspathic sandstones, interbedded with lignite seams,
lignitic shales and calcarenites; (b) A deep-water facies, normally consisting
of an impure, argillaceous, planktonic foraminiferal marl with interbeds of
calcarenite and calcirudite (the latter formed by terrigenous debris derived
from the shallow-water facies). In outcrop areas of eastern Jamaica, the
deep-water facies of the Yellow Limestone Group is conformable with and grades
downward into the Wagwater Group of Late Paleocene - Early Eocene age.
However, away from the deep trough areas, the shallow-water facies oversteps
older rocks and lies unconformably on the Cretaceous. It is worth noting that
the Yellow Limestone Group complex of facies includes potential reservoir
rocks, both clastics and carbonates, potential gas source rocks in the form of
lignites, and potential cover rocks in its shaley and marley developments.
5.        The White Limestone Group is present over 60% to 70% of Jamaica, and
only locally is overlain by younger sediments (Coastal Group), but in several
areas has been eroded off to expose inliers of the underlying Yellow Limestone
Group and older rocks. Prior to the uplift and faulting of Jamaica during the
Caribbean Orogeny, the White Limestone Group probably extended as a continuous
cover over the entire island, and also over Pedro Bank, since Pedro Bank was
not subject to post-Middle Miocene uplift, and therefore it retained a contin-
uous cover of rocks equivalent to the White Limestone Group. However, seismic
data indicate that these rocks have considerable variations in thickness,
mainly due to progressive burrying of underlying beds caused by structural
movements rather than to post depositional uplift and erosion. The White
Limestone Group exhibits a number of different facies, ranging from shallow
water carbonate banks to deep-water limestones in the trough areas. Similar
variations can be expected on Pedro Bank, where the seismic data indicate that
there is a similar pattern of structural blocks separated by fault troughs.
On Pedro Bank, the White Limestone Group is expected to grade upwards into the
Coastal Group or equivalent beds, without a marked break as a result of
continuous deposition.
6.        The Coastal Group rocks of Jamaica are mainly thin continental
clastics and marine limestones of uppermost Miocene to Plio-Pleistocene in
age, which form a discontinuous fringe around the island. Their thickness is
not significant onshore, but almost certainly they thicken offshore. Onshore,
the Coastal Group sediments are strongly unconformable upon the older rocks
indicating that considerable uplift and faulting occurred since the Middle
Miocene. Assoicated with these tectonic movements, submarine basaltic lavas
erupted in Late Miocene-Early Pliocene times on the northeastern coast of



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 12
Jamaica. These tectonic movements constitute the so-called Caribbean Orogeny.
However, the seismic data on Pedro Bank show no clear evidence of a shallow
unconformity, and it would appear that actually little or no post-Middle
Miocene uplift or faulting occurred. A few faults do penetrate the entire
sedimentary sequence to reach the Bank surface but the majority fail to do so.
It is possible that the deformation caused by the Caribbean Orogeny was
intense only close to the Cayman Trench and that southwards there is little or
no effect. The presence of a continuous sediment cover is considered to
enhance the prospectiveness of Pedro Bank, although the shallow Pliocene-
Pleistocene limestones cannot by themselves be considered as objectives.
B.   Structure
7.        Rocks older than the Late Cretaceous which are varyingly faulted,
intruded and mildly metamorphosed, can be regarded as economic basement
for oil and gas exploration in Jamaica.
8.        Late Campanian-Maestrichtian to Paleocene rocks are considered to be
prospective in Jamaica. However, rocks of these ages are strongly deformed in
eastern Jamaica, in the Blue Mountains and Wagwater Belt, but westward, where
they form a prograding deltaic sequence they are much less deformed. The
entire section thickens from less than 1,000 m (3,280 ft) in the Central Block
to possibly 8,000 m (26,250 ft) in Western Jamaica. A similar situation may
occur beneath Pedro Bank. In the east the gravity and magnetic data, supported
by the seismic reflection data, indicate that there is relatively shallow
basement including volcanics. These may well correspond with deformed and
intruded Late Cretaceous and early Tertiary rocks of eastern Jamaica. Westward,
on Pedro Bank, there is a varying thickness of probable Late Cretaceous-Early
Tertiary rocks. These sediments, apparently little deformed, probably exceed
4,000 m (13,120 ft) in thickness in three distinct depocentres, two south of
the granodiorite stocks and one in the Central northern portion of the Bank.
It is considered probable that these are shallow marine to deltaic sediments,
similar to those found at outcrop in Central and Western Jamaica. The possi-
bility of marine shales interbedded with porous limestones and sandstones
renders this sequence of primary interest for hydrocarbon exploration.
Granodioritic intrusions were emplaced both onshore and offshore in the Late
Cretaceous-Early Tertiary, but their effect appears to have been localized and
it is not considered that they have destroyed the petroleum possibilities of
Jamaica. Locally increased heat flows may have been beneficial in the genera-
tion of hydrocarbons from the overlying and surrounding sediments.
9.        Onshore Jamaica, in the Wagwater Belt, strong deformation, especially
faulting, occurred in the Late Paleocene to Early Eocene, and was accompanied
by the outpouring of thick sequences of volcanic lava. There is no direct
evidence for a similar situation beneath Pedro Bank unless rocks of this type
are present beneath the shallow eastern portion of the bank. It is probable,
however, that important fault movements took place on Pedro Bank at this time.
The stratigraphic evidence is insufficient as yet to indicate whether the
great thicknesses variations noted on Pedro Bank below the Yellow Limestones
are due to: (a) post depositional faulting and erosion, (b) deposition



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 12
infilling existing fault-block topography, and (c) synorogenic deposition with
sedimentation accompanied by intermittent faulting. It is considered that the
latter case is the most likely, but only after a number of wells have been
drilled can the question be answered with certainty.
10.       Evidence from onshore Jamaica shows that no important volcanism or
orogeny took place during deposition of the Late Middle Eocene to Middle
Miocene Yellow and White Limestone Group rocks. On Pedro Bank, the situation
appears to be the same. The seismic data indicate that faulting progressively
decreased in intensity during this period. Many faults show a decreased throw
in the shallow section and a few penetrate to the present Bank surface. The
Late Middle Eocene to Middle Miocene epoch was one of continued subsidence of
both the present island and Pedro Bank. Onshore, the Tertiary Limestones reach
a thickness of 6,000 to 8,000 ft and similar thicknesses are probably present
beneath Pedro Bank as indicated by the seismic.
11.       The first major difference between the structural history of Jamaica
and Pedro Bank appears in the period from the Middle Miocene to the present.
Jamaica was strongly faulted and uplifted during this period leading to the
emergence of the present island. These movements are known as the Caribbean
Orogeny. Pedro Bank, in contrast shows very little deformation in the sedi-
ments deposited during that epoch. A few faults do penetrate to the Bank
surface, and locally, the boundary escarpment of the Bank may have been
modified by faulting. There is, however, no evidence of widespread uplift and
sedimentation appears to have been continuous throughout the period although
probably with a reduced rate of deposition compared to the White Limestone
Group.
12.       It appears that the effects of the Caribbean Orogeny diminish
rapidly southwards away from the Cayman Trench, the main locus of deformation.
Pedro Bank is considered generally more prospective for oil and gas than
onshore Jamaica because of its escape from the effects of uplift and faulting
during the Caribbean Orogeny which has led to the preservation of a more
continuous cover of younger sediments and besides the major positive areas are
not breached at the surface as they are onshore Jamaica.
13.       An analysis of the major fault trends both of Jamaica and Pedro Bank
indicates that faults are essentially wrench faults induced by a stress system
striking N60 E. The present interpretation supports this conclusion and most
of the faults mapped fit well with this rose-diagram. Additionally, many
faults show rapid changes in throw and even reversed directions of throw
along their length, suggesting an element of lateral movement. The general
impression gained is that the present fault pattern of Pedro Bank may have
originated as a series of steep normal faults formed in a tensional regime,
later reactivated as strike-slip faults under a compressive stress regime.
There is little evidence of folding in the sediments of Pedro Bank suggesting
that all the compressive stresses were dissipated by lateral fault movements.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 12
The rigid carbonate framework of Pedro Bank may also have been important
in accounting for the observed lack of folding. However, the absence of
folding does not preclude the presence of a number of interesting prospective
hydrocarbon traps which were formed by the tilting of fault blocks and by
variations in thicknesses within the sedimentary sequence.
II. Petroleum Geology - Pedro Bank
(i) Source Rocks
14.       The only well drilled on Pedro Bank (Signal-Oxy Pedro Bank No. 1
well) encountered a carbonate sequence lacking marine shales, which normally
are considered the best potential hydrocarbon source rocks. Therefore, with
the present stratigraphic control, the presence of source rocks beneath Pedro
Bank is speculative. However, onshore stratigraphic control indicates that
thick marine shale sections occur within the Upper Cretaceous and Lower
Tertiary sequences. As sediments of these ages are probably well developed
beneath Pedro Bank, presumably reaching local thicknesses in excess of 4,000 m,
it may be supposed that they will include marine shales with source rock
potential. Therefore, one of the early objectives of exploration on Pedro
Bank must be to ascertain the stratigraphic sequence in the deeper areas.
(ii) Reservoir Rocks
15.       Onshore stratigraphic control indicates the possible occurrence
of sandstones, conglomerates, porous calcearenites and porous bank and reefal
limestones. Similar reservoir rocks are expected to be developed beneath
Pedro Bank within the Yellow Limestone Group and within the underlying Late
Campanian-Maestrichtian and Paleocene intervals. However, more stratigraphic
control is necessary before specific intervals can be highlighted, but as in
the case of potential source rocks, the Late Cretaceous and Early Tertiary
sediments are considered to be the most prospective.
(iii) Potential Traps
16.       Potential traps have been detected with the seismic surveys beneath
Pedro Bank in the form of tilted fault blocks, as probable unconformity traps
on the flanks of major highs and as probable stratigraphic traps within the
Late Cretaceous-Early Tertiary sequence, consisting mainly of sand pinch-outs,
reefal limestones and bank limestone lenses. The single well drilled to date
cannot be considered to have evaluated the area. There is some doubt as to
the exact location of the well, since the rig is reported to have drifted off
location during anchoring operations. Indeed, the interpreted position of the
well indicates that it crossed from the low side of a fault into a basement
intrusive, testing neither the top of the intrusive body nor the deeply buried
flank. If the well is positioned as suggested, it means that it was structur-
ally misplaced and failed to penetrate the pre-Yellow Limestone sequence on
the crest of the granodionite intrusive.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 12
17.       Detailed information of the only exploratory well drilled offshore
(Pedro Bank No. I Well) is given below:
Operator:  Occidental Petroleum Co.
Owner:     Occidental Petroleum Corporation - Signal Oil Co.
Location:  Offshore Jamaica on Pedro Bank
T.D.:      6,491 feet
18.       Evidence is inconclusive as to whether the Plio-Pleistocene (Coastal
Group) was penetrated, since very few samples were recovered due to extensive
loss circulation during drilling.  No evidence for a shallow unconformity was
detected and carbonate deposition was probably continuous throughout the Late
Tertiary and into the Quaternary.
19.       In this well, some 6,135 ft (1,870 m) of the White Limestone Group
sequence was probably penetrated, but the diachronous contacts at the base and
top raise doubts as to the true equivalence of these rocks to the onshore
White Limestone Group.
20.       In the well, a Yellow Limestone Group sequence, 200 ft thick
(92 m) between 6,135 ft and 6,435 ft (1,870-1,962 m) was penetrated. The
upper 63 ft (19 m) comprised brown shaley limestones, in part vuggy and
dolomitic. Beneath were drilled 187 ft (57 m) of dense, non-porous calcareous
sandstone becoming coarser with depth. The Basal 50 ft (15 m) consisted of a
boulder conglomerate of cobbles and pebbles from the underlying granodiorite
stock in a very tight sandy matrix. There are considerable difficulties in
reconciling the well data and seismic data with its reported position.
21.       This well does not provide data on the Pre-Yellow Limestone Group
stratigraphy, since the well probably crossed a fault from the Yellow Lime-
stone into a granodiorite stock of the Cretaceous basement. There is some
doubt as to the exact location of the well as the rig is reported to have
drifted off location during anchoring operations (personal communication,
Meterhoff and Krieg, 1977, p. 111). The uncertainty of the well's location
is unfortunate in that it provides the only stratigraphic control so far
available.
22.       Harriman (1974) suggested that the Pedro Bank No. 1 Well cut a fault
with a throw of about 2,000 ft (610 m) either in the Yellow Limestone or in
the White Limestone sequence. The present interpretation supports Harriman's
contention and suggests that the fault was within the Yellow Limestone Group,
having the well crossed from the downthrown block directly into the grano-
diorite stock on the upthrown block. The reported basal conglomerate encoun-
tered between the Yellow Limestone and the granodiorite should possibly be
interpreted as a fault breccia. The seismic interpretation suggests that
there may be some 600 m (2,000 ft) of Pre-Yellow Limestone sediments beneath
the actual Yellow Limestone sequence on the top of the granodiorite stock,



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page / ot 12
which were missed by the well. If the well is positioned as suggested it
means that it has not at all evaluated the hydrocarbon potential of Pedro Bank
in that it was structurally misplaced and failed to penetrate on the crest of
the granodiorite stock the Pre-Yellow Limestone sequence, which is considered
to have the greatest exploration potential both on and offshore Jamaica.
III. Exploration to Date
23.       Only limited exploration has been undertaken since the mid-50s
(see Table I). Six exploration wells have been drilled onshore in prospective
areas located in the southwest, north and northeast of the island without
success. (One well located in the northeast found gas at 2,500 ft, but due
to mechanical problems and gas pressure it has not yet been capped.) However,
a comprehensive study of Jamaica's petroleum potential completed in 1977 by
a US consulting firm concluded that these early wells were poorly located and
recommended further exploratory drilling, after additional seismic data were
obtained. Five prospective areas onshore have been identified in the southwest
(Savanna-la-mar), northwest (Montego Bay), north (Felmouth), northeast (Ocho
Rios), and eastern-most (Manchioneal) portions of the island, and with the
assistance of the Norwegian and UK Governments new seismic data were acquired
on these areas during 1978-1979. The seismic surveys were carried out by a
British firm using vibroseis equipment and utilizing primarily existing roads,
but with a fairly adequate grid. The largest amount of work (500 km of
seismic lines) was done over the Savanna-la-mar/Lucea area, because of its
size, plus three smaller programs covering the northern prospects and two
additional ones for the northeast and eastern-most areas. These seismic
surveys had severe limitations due to surface constraints, such as: Karst
topography, extensive vegetation coverage, variable thickness of soil and of
the weathering zone. However, subsurface data thus obtained were better than
expected, but still not sufficiently adequate to yield a reliable interpreta-
tion. Several interesting, although small structures, were found as a result
of the interpretation of the seismic data, which was integrated with informa-
tion gathered previously on the stratigraphic and structural framework of the
island,. plus some data on geochemical analyses of potential source rocks. Of
these structures, five are located on the southwest area, two on Montego Bay
(one of them is very large) and one each on the other areas.
24.       The main area explored  2ffshore is locally known as the Pedro Bank,
which is a fairly large, 9,405 km  in size, shallow, steepsided submarine
bank, that lies about 80 km south-southwest of the island. Here exploration
began in the period 1967-1969, with operations conducted by a consortium
formed by Occidental Petroleum Corporation and Signal Oil Company, resulting
in the acquisition of nearly 3,000 km of seismic data, 2,600 km of seismic
lines being located on Pedro Bank, and the rest in shallower coastal waters
off Jamaica. In 1969, this consortium drilled the Pedro Bank No. 1 Well,
with T.D. at 6,491 ft, which penetrated a thick section of Tertiary White
Limestone and a thin section of Paleocene-Lower Eocene Yellow Limestone
before encountering igneous basement (granodionite) at 6,354 ft.



an -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 12
25.       Exploration was resumed by the Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica
through a grant from NORAD and seismic data were obtained in 1978 covering
Pedro Bank with 4,065 km of seismic lines acquired on a 2x4 km grid. Addi-
tional seismic data were obtained off the southwest (at Negril/Savanna-la-mar)
and northwest (Montego Bay) ends of the island, plus further reconnaissance
lines across the Walton and Grappler Banks. The seismic lines were recorded
by Prakla-Seismos of Germany, using their most modern geophysical vessel,
the Explora, under a subcontract to the Geophysical Company of Norway (GECO).
The data were processed by GECO at their computer center located in Stavanger
(Norway). Gravity and magnetic information was also recorded by the Explora
and was processed by Prakla in their computer center in Hannover (Germany).
In 1976, Exxon had also acquired in Jamaican waters three reconnaissance
lines, totalling 256 km, as part of a regional Caribbean survey.
IV. Current Plans for Exploration
26.       Present plans for onshore exploration being financed in part by IDB
call for the drilling of seven wells in at least three of the five prospective
areas defined by seismic surveys already completed, and include additional
geophysical surveys, geological studies and geochemical analyses. The purpose
of the core hole and strat well activities included in the program will be:
(1) to assess the petrographic characteristics of potential source and reser-
voir rocks present in the sedimentary section, either directly in the wells
and/or through electric log evaluation and analysis; (2) to better define the
stratigraphy of the rocks with higher hydrocarbon potential, which appear to
be mainly the Late Campanian-Maestrichtian shale, sandstone and limestone
sequence, and the Paleocene-Lower Eocene Yellow Limestone Group, which also
contains shales and sandstones that will probably make good seal and source
rocks. The potential reservoir rocks are mainly fractured reefal limestones
(similar to those found in the Campeche area of southeast Mexico), with
skeletal matter derived from rudistids, corals, molluscan and echinoid debris,
but also the possibility exists of finding reservoir rocks within the sand-
stones and conglomerates of the Tertiary section. Both the core hole program
and the stratigraphic tests will be designed to evaluate primarily the source
rocks and reservoir potential of the most promising structures mapped with the
seismic surveys already performed. The strat wells will include a deep test
of the largest structure mapped. To better define those structures showing
some degree of closure, additional seismic lines will be shot utilizing
portable seismic equipment. The remainder of the prospective areas, and
especially those covered by limestone inliers, will be evaluated in a prelim-
inary fashion with gravity and magnetic surveys, that will better define their
structural relationships, depth to basement and presence of intrusive bodies
in the subsurface. Ancient topography seems to be related to present day
structures, and structures appear to tighten up with depth, becoming smaller.
Below the Tertiary there is no continuity in seismic events and no mapping
horizon has been defined with existing surveys. Detailed stratigraphic
correlations will be made by measuring a series of outcrop sections and by
performing detailed microscopic work. Geochemical analysis will be performed
in all samples obtained from wells, core holes and surface outcrops.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 12
27.       Offshore Jamaica, and aside from the Pedro Bank area in the platform
or shelf and the deep basin between the island and Pedro Bank, the Corporation
plans to conduct seismic, gravity and magnetic surveys. The area between the
island and Pedro Bank is a deep basin known as the Walton Basin, which was
downfaulted recently to a depth between 300 to 600 m. The seismic survey
to cover this area, and the shallower coastal waters up to the 200 m of
depth, will consist of about 2,300 km of lines.
V. Geological Prospects
(i) Onshore Prospects
28.       Only six wells have been drilled onshore Jamaica and all the explo-
ration effort has been concentrated on the limestone sections making up the
Paleocene-Lower Eocene Yellow Limestone sequence and also the Middle Eocene-
Upper Miocene White Limestone Group. Three of the six wells were the only
ones to drill through the red-bed sequence. The oldest prospective rocks
known from outcrops are probably the Campanian to Maestrichtian deltaic
sediments that once covered most of the central and western portions of the
island, extending into Pedro Bank. Two stages of faulting can easily be
recognized, and probably a third one also existed, all linked to the main
events of structural deformation. Major faults have a northwest-southeast
trend and lesser faults have a radiating pattern with a northeast-southwest
prevailing trend. However, it appears that all faults have a horizontal
component. The third system is made up of probably wrench faults oriented
east-west. The overall structure consists of tilted fault-blocks, with a
southwest dip, somewhat small in size. Probably about seven to eight of these
fault blocks still have some potential for finding in them petroleum deposits.
Reservoir rocks have not been defined as yet, and most probably are the
detrital fractured limestones prevailing in the sedimentary sequence, but also
the possibility exists of finding reservoirs in sandstones and conglomerates.
There is a gas seep that geochemical analysis indicates is a legitimate gas
seep related to the base Tertiary or top Cretaceous rocks. A thick section
of marine shales within the Campanian-Maestrichtian sequence would easily have
been the source rock, and this has been corroborated by geochemical analysis.
In spite of all these good indications, it is difficult to properly assess the
petroleum producing potential of onshore Jamaica, mainly because some 34 wells
have already been drilled without success, from Jamaica to Nicaragua, along
the Honduras-Nicaragua rise.
29.       Nevertheless, based on the fact that the main elements for finding
petroleum reserves do exist, the following assessment has been made on the
basis of an overall evaluation of the geological and geophysical information
available. If the middle reflecting horizon is used for mapping the struc-
tures, these will have a size ranging from 128 to 725 acres, but if the deep
horizon is used instead, then the size of the structures increases to 175 to
800 acres. Assuming a reservoir with a thickness of 50 ft and a recovery
0   0
factor of 50 barrels per acre-foot of 30 -31 API oil, the recoverable reserves



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 12
could be between 320,000 to 3,000,000 barrels per structure, depending on
their size. An overall, average figure for all structures will be 3.7 MMB.
However, if the recovery factor is increased to 120 barrels per acre-foot,
then reserves could be increased up to 15 MMB. If gas is assumed to be the
hydrocarbon to be found, its reserves could vary from 38 million cubic feet
to 152 billion cubic feet depending on sizes used for the structures and
recovery factors. There is a large structure in Montego Bay, about 600 acres
in size, whose reserves could be in the order of 2 to 3.5 MMB of oil or up
to 20 billion cubic feet of gas, using the same parameters as above. There
is also a very large structure in the eastern-most portion of the island that
could have as much as 20 to 40 billion cubic feet of gas. The likelihood
of a gas discovery is greater than any oil.
(ii) Offshore Prospects
30.       An evaluation of the petroleum prospects existing offshore Jamaica,
primarily those located on Pedro Bank, can be made on the basis of an inter-
pretation of the seismic, gravity and magnetic data obtained over Pedro Bank,
in conjunction with geological data projected from onshore Jamaica. Depth of
water, over most of the bank, is less than 100 m.  Pedro Bank is probably
a basement high, formed during Late Cretaceous times, possibly on the down-
thrown side of a major fault. The present form of Pedro Bank is somewhat
problematic, since the very steep bank margins appear to be controlled by
faulting, especially on the north side, where the Walton Basin is located;
however, some seismic events are continuous beneath the bank's edge and slope
suggesting that the bank has grown in-situ by carbonate accretion. There is
some evidence that Pedro Bank has a long standing reef margin, mainly to the
west and northeast. These possible reefal limestones may form a valid objec-
tive, if they can be found beneath sufficient sedimentary cover. It is
interpreted that Pedro Bank had a geologic history similar to that of Jamaica,
except in the Late Tertiary, when the island was subject to considerable
faulting and uplift. Pedro Bank shows little evidence of compressive folding,
but there are numerous faults, which are mainly normal faults that have in
many cases been reactivated as transcurrent faults. The most important faults
are those trending northeast-southwest, although some east-west transcurrent
faults are also present. It is noticeable that many faults die out upwards
suggesting decreased stress in the Late Tertiary, which resulted in that the
shallow rocks are not extensively fractured. In escaping the most recent
Caribbean tectonism, since major faults do not seem to break the Tertiary
cover, Pedro Bank has preserved a more continuous sedimentary cover and the
major structural highs are not breached and eroded as they are onshore.
31.       It appears that a thick sedimentary cover exists over the entire
area of Pedro Bank, with thicknesses varying between 4,500 m (14,800 ft)
to locally more than 6,100 m (20,100 ft). Thinner sequences of sediments,
probably no more than 1,100 m (3,600 ft) in thickness, are located in
the eastern portion of the bank (Block E) and over two structurally high
areas, both probably having a core of Late Cretaceous granodicrite intrusions.
Available data indicate, however, that intrusive bodies and volcanic rocks are



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 12
not widespread beneath Pedro Bank, and are only present in three well defined
areas. Thick sequences of sediments are found mainly in the central, western
and northern parts of the bank (Blocks D, B and A, respectively), which are
interpreted as consisting of nearly 2,000 m (6,600 ft) of Tertiary
carbonates overlying up to 4,000 m (13,200 ft) of Late Cretaceous and
Early Tertiary limestones and clastics. The latter sequence, outcropping in
Jamaica, comprises potential source, reservoir and cap rocks. Potential
entrapment mechanisms are provided by tilted fault blocks, by pinch out and
by reefal and lensoid limestone developments.  A good number of very large
structures, in some with important closures, mainly due to faulting, have
been Iefined with the seismic and some of these structures are more than
80 km in size. Several of the seismic lines contain indications of reefal
build-ups, although none has been pinpointed in detail.
32.       In conclusion, it can be said on the data now available that a large
area of Pedro Bank has a fair to good potential for hydrocarbon exploration.
An estimate of potential recoverable reserves has been made, assuming the
existence of only 12 prospective structures. All those structures too small
in size, and also those two with granodiorite intrusive bodies at the core,
were eliminated. The largest structure mapped was subdivided in three parts,
more or less equal in size. A limestone reservoir with a thickness of 50
feet was assumed and, with a recovery factor of 50 barrels per acre-foot for
oil with a gravity of 30 -31  API, the recoverable reserves could be 590
million barrels, subject to a risk factor of 1/40. Making the reservoir 100
feet thick, the reserves will increase to 1,200 million barrels, and the
largest structure could have 375 million barrels of reserves with a 50 foot
reservoir.



T.D.            ELEV.,K.B.       SPUD               COMPLETION        OLDEST UNIT
WELL            OPERATOR          FT          M      FT        H        DATE               DATE              PENETRATED
Negril Spots-i    Canadian Base   6 ,314    1,925    42          13        4-IV-55            10-IV-55          Unnamed unit below Calton
Metals                                                                                      Hill Limestone (siddle
Maestrichtian)
Santa Cruz-1       Pan Jamaican    8,732    2,662 2,576    786             3-VI-56            2-III-57          Bullhead Fm. (early to
(Amoco)                                                                                     middle Canpanian). or
Arthur's Seat Fm.
(Coniacian), or Early
Cretaceous
Cockpit-I           Pan Jamaican    5,525    1,684 2,373    723            10-IV-57            14-V-57          Bullhead F-. (early tomiddle
(Amoco)                                                                                     Campanian). or Arthur's
Seat Fu (Coniacian), or
Early Cretaceous
West Negril-l       Pan Jamaican    9,244    2,818   398        121         10-VI-51           22-VIII-57       Pre-Jerusalem    Mountain   I
(Amoco)                                                                                     part of Summerfield Fm .
(latest Maestrichtian)    '
Pedro Bank-1        Occidental-      6 491    1 979    81        25        12-I-71            13-IV-70           Granodiorite   48.6. 57.4 *. y-
Signal
Portland Ridge-I  Occidental-        7 420    2 ,262   656    200          22-1-71            2-IV-71           Bullhead Fu. (Early to middle
Signal                                                                                      Campanian) or Arthur's
Seat Fm. (Coniacian)
Content-i           Kirby, Weaver   7,608    2,320 2,070    631            14-X-72             31-1-73          Upper part of Summerfield Fm.
et al.                                                                                       (Paleoc-ne or early
boeesn?)
EXPLORATORY TESTS DRILLED IN JAKAICA, 1955-1974
0



- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
JAMAICA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
THE PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF JAMAICA (PCJ)
Establishment and Scope of Activities
l.       The Petroleum Corporation of Jamaica was created by the Petroleum Act
of June 14, 1979, as a fully Government-owned, but autonomous and financially
accountable body. It drew its initial assets from the dismantled Petroleum
Company of Jamaica Limited (PETROJAM). Its purpose under the law is to act as
the Government's operational arm in all matters concerning petroleum and
energy in general and specifically to promote the orderly and rational devel-
opment of Jamaica's petroleum resources. Under the Petroleum Act, the Corpora-
tion has the exclusive right to explore for, and develop, petroleum resources
in Jamaica, but it can do so in association with contractors. It can also,
alone or in cooperation with contractors, refine, store, buy and sell crude
oil and petroleum products.
Management, organization and staff
2.        The Corporation is administered by a Board of between 5 and 12
directors, including the Chairman, who are appointed by the Minister of
Mining and Energy for renewable 2-year terms. The current Board is composed of
eleven members, mostly drawn from the private financial sector. It includes
three representatives of the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Governor of
the Bank of Jamaica. The board appoints the chief executive officer (Managing
Director) who in turn is responsible for the appointment and training of the
corporation's staff. The current managing director, who is also a Board member,
has headed the corporation since its inception. He is a fully competent
engineer who developed a broad technical and managerial experience during
a 20-year career mostly in private industry. He is assisted by a Management
Committee consisting of PCJ's senior department heads.
3.        PCJ's organization, job descriptions, and procedures have been
developed following a thorough study by outside consultants. They are satis-
factory, and well adapted to PCJ's objectives. The organization currently
comprises six departments:  Finance and Accounting, Legal, Administration,
Economics and Planning Operations Development, and Exploration. The Corpora-
tion's staff numbers 55 permanent employees, including 37 professionals with
college-level education. They are generally well qualified and competent to
carry out PCJ's on-going activities, though many of them have only limitez.
experience in the petroleum sector. Training, both on-the-job and through
courses abroad, is given priority by PCJ's management. PCJ's technical
staff, however, would need considerable strengthening if the exploration
activities now underway are successful, especially for purposes of effec-
tively monitoring the activities of the foreign partners.



- 49 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
4.        More than half of PCJ's professional staff is concentrated in the
Exploration Department, the key technical and operational unit within the
organization. The Department is headed by a US-trained Jamaican geologist.
He is assisted by two expatriate engineers both with long experience with
Exxon, who occupy the posts of Operations Manager and are financed under the
IDB loan for the on-shore oil exploration project. The department also
includes a Special Projects Unit which is in charge of the preparation of a
hydro electric and peat development project and employs about 20 people on a
fixed-term basis.
5.        The Corporation's financial management, including internal auditing
arrangements, is adequate. PCJ's books are audited by Touche Ross Thornburn
and Co., who issued unqualified opinions on PCJ's 1979 accounts.
Operations
6.        Crude oil and petroleum products trading.  Since its inception to
date, the main activity of PCJ (and, before it, of PETROJAM) has consisted
of purchasing crude oil under an agreement between Jamaica and Nigeria
(15,000 barrels/day), having it processed off-shore at the Shell refinery
in Curacao and trading the resulting products to obtain high sulphur fuel oil
to sell to the bauxite companies in Jamaica. The price differential between
the light products obtained from the high-quality Nigerian crude and the
low-grade fuel needed by the bauxite industry has permitted PCJ to reap
sizeable profits from this intermediation activity, which is expected to
continue in the foreseeable future. The Nigerian agreement is of indefinite
duration, but can be repealed at the option of either party with a 90-day
notice. Even if it came to an end, it would have to be replaced by another
long-term crude supply agreement from other sources, and PCJ would continue
to benefit from this type of activity as long as it remains the Jamaican
Government's agent for intermediation in petroleum trading.
7.        PCJ will also act as the Government's agent in the execution of
the 1980 agreements with Mexico and Venezuela, according to which Jamaica
is guaranteed the supply of its domestic needs of crude oil (excluding the
bauxite industry consumption). PCJ will provide to the local refinery,
operated by an Exxon subsidiary, that portion of the Venezuelan and Mexican
crude which the refinery can technically handle, and will have the remainder
processed off-shore for further allocation of the products to local distributors.
So far, the Exxon refinery procured its crude requirements directly from the
open market; since from now on PCJ will be supplying the refinery with the
bulk of its crude needs, Exxon has agreed, in exchange, to furnish PCJ refined
products, which PCJ would then market to Jamaican bulk consumers, such as the
utility companies. PCJ has already been active in this area, through a joint
agreement with Shell to supply fuel to the Jamaica Public Service Corporation.
PCJ intends to expand its wholesale marketing of finished products taking
advantage of the competitive payment terms (30 days after delivery) which it
can offer its customers, thanks to the comfortable liquidity situation which
PCJ enjoys (para. 12).



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 7
8.     Exploration activities.  Although up until now PCJ's activities have
mostly consisted of trading crude oil and petroleum products, PCJ's long run
objective is to shift from trading to the development of the country's energy
resources. The proposed project would provide it with the long-term funding
and technical assistance it needs. Its first major development activity has
been petroleum exploration. PCJ is the executing agency for a major on-
shore exploration project which IDB is financing. The project will be carried
out in two phases: during the first phase, which has already started and
which is expected to be completed by year-end, PCJ plans to drill at least
three wells, for a total of 30,000 feet, at an estimated investment cost of
US$12.5 million. The second phase of the project would be launched only if
the results obtained during the first phase prove the continuation of the
project to be technically, financially, and economically viable. In that
case, PCJ would drill at least another four wells for a total of 40,000 feet
at an estimated cost of a further US$17.0 million. IDB's financing is pro-
vided in the form of a loan to the Government at soft terms (para 15, foot-
note), which the Government passes on to PCJ. The loan, which was signed in
March, 1981, would cover 75.1% of total project cost, the balance to be
provided by PCJ from its own resources.
9.        As regards off-shore explorations, apart from seismic surveys which
it carried out for the purpose of attracting foreign investment, PCJ has
relied exclusively on contracts with multinational oil firms, without invest-
ing any funds of its own, so far. As explained in the main body of this
report, a production sharing contract, in which PCJ has a 10% carried interest,
has been awarded in May 1980 to a group headed by Union Oil of Texas for one
of the blocks (Block C) into which the Pedro Bank area is subdivided. Another
contract on either block A or D is expected to be signed with the same group
by mid-1981. Subsequently PCJ expects to conclude negotiations with other
groups for block not selected by the Union of Texas group. PCJ will also
require future contracts to contain carried interest clauses; as a result, it
would begin investing in exploration activities as a fully fledged member of
the consortia only once it is proven that a commercial discovery has been
made. Also, PCJ does not exclude the possibility of investing in offshore
exploration at its sole risk and expense in the future if the results of
on-going exploration work so warrants, but only relatively small investments
of this sort are envisaged at this stage.
10.    Other investment activities.  PCJ is also assisting the Government in
the identification and preparation of a number of other energy-related
projects. These include a peat recovery project, an experimental Ocean Thermal
Energy Conversion (OTEC) project (possibly to be financed by the Swedish
Government), and a plant to reconstitute used lubricating oils (for which the
feasibility study would be financed with the proceeds of the proposed loan).
All these projects are in the early stages of conception; PCJ's role has been
limited, so far, to the preparation of pre-feasibility studies, and it has
not been decided, yet, whether PCJ will invest in them, and if so in what
proportion, or whether PCJ will directly take part in their execution and in
their maragement.



- 51 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
PCJ's financial situation and prospects
II.       Current financial situation.  PCJ's balance sheets and income
statements for the fiscal years closed September 30, 1979 (audited) and 1980
(actual but unaudited) are shown in attachments 1 and 2. They indicate that
PCJ has a solid financial position, with a sizeable net working capital, a
current ratio of 1:3:1 in 1979 and of 1.5:1 in 1980, and a term debt/equity
ratio of 5/95 in 1980. As of December 1980, PCJ's total assets amounted to
the equivalent of US$51.2 million, of which 98% represented current assets.
Current and tax liabilities amounted to US$ 34.1 million. The only outstand-
ing long-term liability consisted of the disbursed portion of an IDB pre-
investment loan (US$0.9 million) which has been consolidated in 1981 with
IDB's long-term loan at soft term for the on-shore exploration project.
Equity, amounting to US$16.2 million, was entirely accounted for by retained
earnings.
12.       PCJ's net income after tax amounted to the equivalent of US$9.6
million and 6.6 million in fiscal 1979 and 1980, respectively, representing
over 51% of average equity in 1980. Earnings from the sale of products
derived from the Nigerian crude (5.4 million barrels/year on average) accounted
for 91% and 47% of PCJ's total gross earnings in 1979 and 1980, respectively.
PCJ's average profit margin on its trading of crude oil and petroleum products
was a high US$4.40 per barrel in 1979 (due to the abnormally high differential
between long-term contract prices of crude and spot prices of refined products
recorded that year), and a more normal US$1.15 per barrel in 1980. Other
income earned by PCJ in the first two years of operations consisted essentially
of (i) interest earned on cash surpluses mostly invested in treasury bills,
accounting for the equivalent of US$1.8 million and 6.0 million in 1979 and
1980, respectively; such cash surpluses derive largely from the difference
between payment terms for the Nigerian crude (90 days) and those on PCJ's
sales (30 to 60 days) which, during 1980, allowed PCJ the use, at all times,
of about US$50 million on average; (ii) PCJ's profits on the joint Shell/PCJ
intermediation contract to supply fuel to the Jamaica Public Service Corpora-
tion, which accounted for the equivalent of US$700,000 in 1980; and (iii) the
sale of geo-physical data to foreign oil companies, accounting for US$500,000
in 1979 and US$50,000 in 1980.
13.       PCJ's administrative expenses were reasonable:  about US$1.1 million
or 2.3% of average assets, in 1980. Other expenses included the cost of
surveys and prefeasibility studies for a number of energy-related projects
(para. 10) as well as the preparatory expenditures for the on-shore explora-
tion projects (stratigraphic investigations and data interpretations).  The
extraordinary expense of US$5.9 million labeled as "management fees" in the
1979 accounts represents a compensatory payment made by PCJ to the Jamaica
National Investment Corporation, previously the main shareholder of PETROJAM,
to compensate it for PETROJAM's assets (including 2900 acres of valuable land)
following the transfer to PCJ of the ownership of PETROJAM's shares. 1/
1/   PETROJAM's assets are not listed in the 1980 unaudited balance sheet because
of delays in the legal transfer of the title. This problem has since been
resolved and the value of PETROJAM's land assets will be reflected in
PCJ's consolidated balance sheet for 1981.



- 52 -                           ANNEX V
Page 5 of 7
14.       Financial Prospects.  The projected financial data shown in the
attachments which are expressed in constant 1981 Jamaican dollars (J$1.75 =
US$1.00) have been prepared on the basis of the following conservative
assumptions: (i) no oil or gas would be discovered either on-shore or off-
shore; (ii) the second phase of the on-shore oil exploration project would
be abandoned, and PCJ therefore would limit its borrowing from IDB through
the Government to $10 million (the IDB-financed portion of the $12.5 million
investment estimated to be needed in the first phase of the project); 1/
(iii) PCJ would draw down the proposed World Bank loan in full between 1981
and 1984, investing the exploration component either in the consortium equity
or in a sole risk operation, but without deriving any income from such invest-
ment; (iv) PCJ would start investing in other energy related projects (peat
development, lubricating oil recovery, OTEC power plant, etc.) only in 1983,
after accumulating sufficient cash surpluses to finance these investments
without resorting to external borrowings; and (v) PCJ's income from its
trading of crude oil and petroleum products would stabilize at the level of
5.4 million barrels/year, and to yield an average profit margin of US$1.42/
barrel, i.e., 27 cents more than in 1980 (this increase is due to the fact
that the ex-refinery prices set by the Government for the Exxon refinery
production, which also apply to PCJ's sales in the local market, have been
renegotiated upwards in 1981); (vi) PCJ's income from marketing petroleum
products to large consumers in Jamaica is expected to double from the
US$700,000 level in 1980 to US$1.4 million by 1983; (vii) PCJ would continue
to earn interest income from cash surpluses averaging about US$50 million at
all times; such income is thus projected to stabilize around US$4.8 million/
year; and, (viii) administrative expenses would stabilize around US$1.2
million/year, not counting additional staffing costs and other overheads due
to PCJ's expanding activities in oil and gas exploration (such costs being
accounted for in the projected income statement as part of exploration
expenses).
15.       The assumptions are all deliberately pessimistic, because the
purpose of these projections is to demonstrate that PCJ would remain credit-
worthy even in the worst circumstances. In fact, PCJ's performance during
the next five years is expected to be considerably better. Firstly, the
volume of PCJ's trading of crude oil and petroleum products is likely to
exceed the average level of 1979/80 (which has been assumed to remain constant
in the projections). The Corporation's handling of the Venezuelan and Mexican
agreements, in addition to the Nigerian one, would most likely permit PCJ
1/   The Loan Agreement with IDB foresees that, if the first phase of the
project is unsuccessful, the balance of IDB's loan would be cancelled.
Conversely, if the results of the first phase warrant the continuation of
the project, an additional $17 million investment is estimated to be
required for the second phase, of which $12.5 million would be financed
by IDB. The Loan Agreement, furthermore, foresees that, if a commercial
discovery of oil or gas is made, the loan conditions would be automatic-
ally converted from the current soft terms (35 years, including 8 years
of grace; interest rate of 2.5% p.a.) to IDB's regular terms (15 years
including 4 years of grace, at the going interest rate of IDB, which
is 8.5% p.a. at present).



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
to make a profit on sales of at least an additional 2 million barrels a year,
since the local refinery cannot technically handle the entire Mexican and
Venezuelan supply, part of which PCJ would have processed offshore, to
re-sell the products to local distributors. Secondly, PCJ is likely to
increase its share of the local petroleum products market. One possibility
now being explored, fo_ instance, is the local marketing of LPG obtained from
the offshore processing of Mexican crude.  Thirdly, the discovery of oil or
gas either onshore or offshore, is not to be ruled out.  If there were a
discovery, clearly PCJ's financial position would be much stronger although it
would have to borrow large additional amounts of capital and consequently
increase its leverage. Barnk lending to PCJ now would facilitate for PCJ the
future borrowings from other financial sources by enhancing its creditworthiness.
16.       Even under the assumptions used for the financial projections, these
show clearly that PCJ would remain a creditworthy institution, capable of
servicing its debt to IDB and the World Bank, as long as the Government
continues to permit PCJ to operate in the petroleum trading business and
provided that it does not require PCJ to pay out exorbitant dividends.
According to the projections, PCJ's total assets would increase from US$51
million in 1980 to US$80 million in 1985; its net working capital would range
from US$20 million to US$25 million through 1985, with the current ratio
remaining above 1.5:1 and the quick ratio remaining at about 1.0:1. The term
debt/equity ratio is projected to remain at all times below 35/65. PCJ's
gross earnings are projected to stabilize around US$14 million/year, against
administrative expenses of US$1.2 million/year. After expensing all explora-
tion costs and other project preparation expenses which the law permits to
depreciate within the same year that they are incurred, net profits before
taxes are expected to range between the equivalent of US$5 and US$8 million.
PCJ is taxed at the rate of 50%, so net income after tax would range between
the equivalent of US$2.5 and US$5 million. Net income before tax would
represent between 20% and 35% of average equity, and between 8% and 12%
of average total assets in 1981-85.
17.       The projected source and application of funds statement shows
and IDB's loans will be drawn down), which would be used up from 1983 onwards
to finance energy related projects, other than oil and gas exploration.
Throughout the period, the debt service coverage ratio would remain higher
than 10:1. No distribution of dividends is projected, because PCJ intends to
only start paying dividends to the Government after hydrocarbons are discovered
in commercial quantities and their production begins.  The Government has
indicated its intention to convert automatically into a capital subscription
any dividend declared by PCJ's board before the discovery of oil or gas: this
would amount to simply changing the accounting label of PCJ's reserves from
retained income to equity.
Conclusions and Recommendations
18.       PCJ is a well-managed and well organized institution, which is
competently carrying out its function. The technical expertise of its staff
will need some strengthening in connection with the on-going off-shore explo-
ration activities, to improve PCJ's ability to monitor the activities of the



- 54 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 7
(_onsortia in which it participates, and possibly to permit PCJ to undertake
o,  -l.ore explorations at its sole risk and expense if the circumstances
warrant it. The technical assistance component of the proposed loan is
intended to help PCJ resolve this problem, of which its management is fully
aware.
19.       PCJ is profitable and creditworthy; it is projected to remain so
even in the event that no oil or gas discovery results from the exploration
activities in which it is engaged, both on-shore and off-shore. However, to
ensure the continuing creditworthiness of the institution, which depends to a
large extent on it being allowed to maintain its current business and finan-
cial practices, the following financial covenants are included in the Loan
Agreemnt between PCJ and the Bank: (a) PCJ shall maintain on a year-to-year
basis, a total debt service coverage ratio of not less than 2:1; (b) PCJ shall
maintain at all times a quick ratio (current assets minus inventories over
current liabilities) of not less than 1:1; (c) PCJ's term debt to equity ratio
shall not be allowed to rise above 50/50; and (d) the investments in oil and
gas exploration projects which PCJ will carry as assets in its balance sheet
shall not exceed, at any time, 70% of PCJ's equity. For purposes of calculat-
ing the debt service coverage ratio and the debt /equity ratio, the following
adjustments will be made to PCJ's official accounting data: (a) exploration
costs, which PCJ fully charges as expenses the year they are incurred in com-
pliance with Jamaica's tax laws, will be treated as investments and capitalized
according to accounting practices generally accepted in the oil industry; and
(b) in the case of a commercial discovery, PCJ's equity will be adjusted
upward to include the net present value of proven recoverable oil reserves, to
the extent that this is not reflected in the balance sheet. Furthermore, a
covenant in the Cuarantee Agreement would commit the Government not to require
"CJ to distribute dividends if by doing so the above financial covenants are
breached, and to inject fresh capital in PCJ if this proves necessary for PCJ
to abide by those covenants.



- 55 -                         ATTACHMENT I
JAMAICA
PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF JAMAICA
INCOME STATEMENT
(J$ million)
1979   1980      1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
(audited)  (actual)- …----(projected) -----------
Volume of crude and products
traded (millions of barrels/year)   (5.4)   (5.4)   (5.4)  (5.4)  (5.4)  (5.4)  (5.4)
Profit margin (US$ per barrel)           (7.69)  (2.02)  (2.53) (2.53) (2.53) (2.53) (2.53)
Income
Earnings from crude and products
trading                                41.5    10.9    13.7   13.7   13.7   13.7   13.7
Earnings from product marketing
to bulk consumers                        -       1.3      1.3    1.8    2.5    2.5    2.5
Interest Income                           3.2    10.4       8.4    8.4    8.4    8.4    8.4
Sale of geophysical data, and
other income                            0.9      0.2     -       -       -       -      -
IDB Technical Assistance grant             -       0.3      -      -       -       -      -
45.6    23.3   23.4   23.9   24.6   24.6   24.6
Expenses
Administrative expenses                   0.7      1.9    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1
Management fees 1/                       10.4        -      -       -      -       -       -
Expenses for onshore explora-
tion and  development                   0.9      1.1   10.9    3.5       -      -       -
Expenses for offshore explora-
tion and development                     -        -      -      2.1    2.8    2.8    2.8
Expenses for other projects               0.7      0.5    1.1    2.5    2.5    3.5    3.5
Depreciation                              0.1      0.2    0.2    1.1    1.6    2.6    3.5
Taxes                                    15.9      7.9    4.3    5.9    7.2    6.0    5.4
28.7    11.6   18.6   17.2   16.2   17.0   17.3
Operating Revenue                        16.9    11.7    4.8    6.7    8.4    7.6    7.3
Financial expenses                        0.1      0.1    0.5    0.7    1.1    1.9    1.9
Net Profit                               16.8    11.6    4.3    6.0    7.3    6.0    5.4
Ratios:
Profit before tax, as % of
- average equity                 -     86.2   28.1   33.3   34.2   24.5   19.7
- average assets                -      23.4    9.1   11.2   12.1    9.2    7.8
Profit after tax, as % of
- average equity                 -     51.3   14.1   16.8   17.2   12.2    9.9
Administrative expenses, as % of
- average assets                -       2.3    2.2    2.0    1.8    1.6    1.5
1/   Compensatory payment to Jamaica National Investment Corporation (para. 13).



- 56 -
ATTACHMENT 2
JAMAICA
PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF JAMAICA
BALANCE SHEET
(J$ million)
1979        1980
(audited)   (actual)   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Assets
,ash and short-term investments    27.5         27.7     28.9   34.2   30.5   31.2   28.8
Accounts receivable                 11.7        60.3     24.9   29.1   35.7   27.8   26.2
Goods in transit                   37.1           -      35.0   35.0   35.0   35.0   35.0
Total Current Assets          76.3         88.0     88.8   98.3  101.2  94.0  90.0
',ixed Assets (net)                 0.5          1.3      7.0    8.1    8.8   10.5   11.4
Investments in Exploration (net)     -           0.3      2.9    6.2    5.9    8.9    9.4
i[nvestments in other projects (net)  -           -        -     1.6    9.5   22.8   29.8
TOTAL ASSETS                        76.8        89.6     98.7  114.2  125.4  136.2  140.6
-I,iabilities
liank overdraft                     7.0           -        -      -      -       -      -
Accounts payable                    37.2        46.2     50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0
"ax liabilities                    15.8         13.6      4.3    5.9    7.2    6.0    5.4
Total Current Liabilities    60.0         59.8     54.3   55.9   57.2   56.0   55.4
Borrowings at long-term              -           1.4     11.7   19.6   22.2   28.2   27.8
I'etained earnings (equity)         16.8        28.4     32.7   38.7   46.0  52.0   57.4
Q70TAL LIABILITIES                 76.8        89.6      98.7  114.2  125.4  136.2  140.6
1.emo Item:  Net working capital    16.3        28.2     34.5   42.4   44.0  38.0  34.6
Ratios:
Iong-term debt/equity              -           5/95    26/74   34/66  33/67  38/62  34/66
Ouick ratio                       0.7:1        1.5:1    1.0:1   1.1:1  1.2:1  1.1:1  1.1:1
Current ratio                      1.3:1       1.5:1    1.6:1   1.8:1  1.8:1  1.7:1  1.7:1
:.nvestments in exploration
as % of equity                    -           1.1      8.9    16.0   12.8   17.1   16.4



- 57 -
ATTACHMENT 3
JAMAICA
PETROLEUM CORPORATION OF JAMAICA
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
(J$ million)
Sources                                1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Profits before financial expenses   32.8   19.6    9.1   12.6   15.6   13.6   12.7
Depreciation                            0.1    0.1    0.2    1.1    1.6    2.6    3.5
Internal cash generation               32.9   19.7    9.3   13.7   17.2   16.2   16.2
Borrowings from IDB                      -     1.4   10.3    5.6       -       -      -
Borrowings from WB                       -      -       -     2.3    2.6    6.0       -
Total cash generation                  32.9   21.1   19.6   21.6   19.8   22.2   16.2
Applications
Investments in fixed assets             0.5    1.0    6.0    1.6    1.6    1.8    1.8
Investments in exploration               -     0.3    2.5    3.9    0.2    3.7    1.2
Investments in other projects            -      -       -     1.6    8.1   15.1    8.9
Interest repayments                     0.1    0.1    0.5    0.7    1.1    1.6    1.9
Principal repayments                     -      -       -       -      -       -     0.4
Tax payments                           15.0   13.6    4.3    5.9    7.2    6.0    5.4
16.5   15.0   13.3   13.7   18.2   28.2   19.6
Increase (Decrease) in Net
Working Capital                      16.4    6.1    6.3    7.9    1.6   (6.0)  (3.4)
Total debt service coverage
ratio                                 -             19:1   20:1   16:1   10:1   10:1






IBRD 15576
rj      00~~~~~~1~~~                           MARCH 1981
Q)             c~~~~0) U
o  E
. 0 0
QQ .2D
z                    0 
0                                                              -0  0.a
OU   00   -0 -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u-
0~~~~~~~~~~~' 0 0
0                          000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~ 0
-o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o*
LU                                                              '~~~~~~~~  0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ct~~~~~~~~'
0
0)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0      u  0
z
0
4)~~~~~~~~0)
z~~~~~~~~~~~
&                                    ~~~~~~~~~00
CZ~~~~~~
Z                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
00~~~~~~~~~
4-C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
4                                                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
~~~ K)                                        0~~~~~~



