Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4796-HU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
May 27, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Forint (Ft)
Average Exchange Rates
(Forints per US$)
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987      1988 (Jan.)
US$1.00 =      Ft. 42.7    48.0      50.1      45.8     47.0          47.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA      Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DRC       Domestic Resource Cost
NBH       National Bank of Hungary
NPO       National Planning Office
R&D       Research and Development
TFP       Total Factor Productivity
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Summary                                                      i-ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY                                                 1
A.  Recent Economic Developments                                     1
B.  Prospects for 1988 and Beyond                                    4
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY                           6
A.   The Bank's Lending Strategy                                     6
B.   Status of Bank Group Operations                                 8
PART III - THE FRAMEWORK FOR INDUSTRIAL POLICY REFORM                8
A.  Structure and Performance of Industry                            8
B.   Strategic Issues in the Industrial Sector                      10
C.   The Economic Stabilization and Structural Reform Program    11
D.   Industrial Policy Reforms                                      12
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN                                         21
A.   Loan Features and Implementation                               21
B.   Monitoring and Tranche Release                                 22
C.   Coordination with the IMF                                      23
D.  Social Costs                                                    24
E.  Risks                                                           24
PART V - RECOMMENDATION                                             25
Annexes
1.   Social Indicator Data Sheet                                    26
2.   Key Macroeconomic Indicators                                   30
3.   Balance of Payments in Convertible Currencies                  31
4.   Status of Bank Group Operations                                32
5.   Macroeconomic Program, 1988-90                                 34
6.   Letter of Sector Development Policies                          35
7.   Supplementary Loan Data Sheet                                  56
Map  IBRD 17361R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by re-  . only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosef withow World Bank authorization.



- i -
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:            Hungarian People's Republic.
Amount:               US$200 million equivalent.
Terr                  15 years, including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
ObJectives and
Description:          The  loan  would  support  the  Government's  program  of
economic   stabilization   and   structural   reform   with
industrial sector policies being a central part of the
policy  reforms.   The  objective  of  the program  is  to
increase the efficiency and international competitiveness
of the industrial sector to enable increased Hungarian
exports  to  the  convertible  currency  markets.   Policy
objectives being supported by the loan cover:
(i) increasing domestic and external competition in the
economy, (ii) tightening financial discipline in the
enterprise sector, and (iii) facilitating the mobility of
capital and labor to enable restructuring of industry.
These reforms are an integral part of the 1988-90
economic program approved by the Government in September
1987 and being supported by a Standby Arrangement of
SDR265 million with  the  IMF.   The  loan would provide
US$200 million equivalent to finance general imports of
goods.
Benefits and Risks:  Industrial  policy  reforms  are  expected  to  lead  to
efficient restructuring and growth.  While the focus of
the reforms is on the industrial sector, many of the
reforms are systemic in nature and would have an
economy-wide  impact.   Successful  implementation  of  the
reform would lead the economy to a path of sustainable
growth by improving the efficiency, flexibility and
market-responsiveness of the structure of production.
The main risk of the policy reform program is the
possiblity   of   inadequate   implementation   of   the
macroeconomic stabilization policies which would provide
the  conditions  for  a  strong  supply  response  from
industrial policy reforms. The strong commitment by the



-i i-
Hungarian authorities to implement the stabilization
program while accelerating the industrial restructuring
program reduces the risk. The feasibility of the program
is anhanced by the fact that a new leadership, committed
to  the  reform,   has  been  put  in  place   for   its
implementation.   Overall,  while there are risks in the
implementation of a reform program in a climate of
austerity, the level of risk is acceptable.  Nonetheless,
implementation  of  the  program  will  require  intensive
monitoring by Bank staff.
Estimated
Disbursements:        The loan will be disbursed in two tranches.   The first
tranche   of   $100   million   would  be  available   for
disbursement at the time of loan effectiveness, and the
second tranche is expected to be released in early 1989,
on the basis of : (i) satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the 1988 economic program, and the
adoption of a 1989 Annual Plan and Central State budget,
including   a   public   investment   plan,   which   would
(a) reduce the budget deficit further and facilitate
halting the growth of external debt by 1990; and
(b) reduce producer and consumer subsidies and financial
support by at least l0X annually from the 1988 level; and
(ii) satisfactory  progress  in  the  implementation  of
critical  measures   which  form  part  of  the  agreed
industrial sector policy reform measures.
Economic Rate
of Return:            Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:    None.
M P:                  IBRD 17361R1



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
1.        I submit  the  following  report and  recommendation on a  proposed
Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan of US$200 million equivalent to the
Hungarian People's Republic. The Loan would be amortized over a period of 15
years,  including a grace period of five years.   The Loan would be at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5951-HU) was circulated to
the Executive Directors in 1986. A mission to update the Country Economic
Memorandum visited Hungary in July 1987. The findings of the mission were
discussed with the Government in October 1987 and January 1988. The following
assessment is based on the findings of the mission. The report of the mission
is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly.  Country
data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A.        Recent Economic Developments
3.        Following an economic crisis in the late 1970s and early 1980s,
Hungary had stabilized its economy by the end of 1984 with the help of two IMF
Standby Arrangements which enabled the country to avert a liquidity crisis.
The current account was in surplus, as was the Central Government budget. The
stabilization  was  mainly  due  to  tight  demand  management,   including
administrative restrictions on imports, which however had created pent up
demand. In 1985 the Government initiated a vigorous renewal of the economic
reform program, which had been begun in 1968. Reforms to further the goals of
decentralization and reliance on "indirect regulators", or market-based
signals, to guide economic actions were instituted.
4.        The macroeconomic environment in which the reforms were implemented
was, however, not supportive.   The authorities judged  that,  following  the
stabilization period, a more expansionary demand management policy was
justified. This led to a rapid growth of monetary and credit aggregates due
to the expansionary fiscal stance, which increased Government expenditures
(Figure 1) and fiscal deficits.  Part of the reason for the growing fiscal
deficits was the increase in State financial support to enterprises.
Increased support to enterprises reduced financial discipline and insulated
enterprises from the effects of the reforms, and rest%lted in poor performance
in the enterprise sector.  Consequently, economic performance was poor:  real
GDP declined by 0.32 in 1985 and grew by only 1.5% in 1986. Nonruble exports
fell by 6.62 and 3.82 respectively (Annex 2).



- 2 -
Figure 1
Central Govt. Revenue and Expenditures
so             (pert of crent puce GM
'57 
66                                          A
a s -              e                  
56
54-
62 -     s          lla            
1061    1062    1063    1904      1966    1066    1967
5.        Nonruble exports suffered from the contraction of export markets in
the Middle East and some developing country markets, and the effects of poor
weather on agricultural production, especially of grain.   In addition,  the
profitability of sales to the convertible currency area compared with the
domestic market declined in 1985 and 1986. Nonruble import volume increased
by an average of 1.7% per year in 1985-86. There was also a cumulative 8.2%
deterioration in the terms of trade. The deterioration was due to the heavy
concentration of raw materials and semi-finished goods and bulk agricultural
products,  where  world  prices  were  declining,  in  Hungary's  exports.   In
addition, since a significantly higher proportion of Hungary's exports are
denominated in US dollars compared with imports, the depreciation of the
dollar against other major currencies worsened the deterioration. As a result
of these forces, the trade and current account balances deteriorated sharply.
6.         Starting from a surplus of US$329 million in 1984 (Annex 3), the
convertible currency current account deficit reached US$1,419 million in 1986
(6.02 of GDP). The growing current account deficits were financed by higher
foreign  debt.   In  addition,  however,  the  resulting  increase  in external
indebtedness was exacerbated by the sharp movements in the cross-currency
exchange rates that began in 1985 and the shift in the composition of new
borrowings into currencies that subsequently appreciated against the US
dollar.   As  a  result  of  the  increase  in debt and  the poor supply side
performance, three key creditworthiness indicators - the net debt to GDP
ratio, the net debt to exports ratio, and the debt service ratio - all
deteriorated in 1985-86 (Figure 2).



- 3 -
Figure 2
CoedItworthInoss Indlcators
1.4-
1.3-
1.2 
0.91
1.0
0.4-
0.41
0.2-                                         md , fu
-0.1
1081    1982    1089    1984      1s86    1986     1087
7.        A major part of the problem in 1985-86 was the unsatisfactory supply
response in the industrial sector.  Industrial value added fell by 1.31 per
year in those years, and relatively strong growth was recorded only in the
service sectors, partly because of the continued dynamism of the private
sector.   The poor overall performance, especially of industry, may be related
to the protracted decline in fixed investment, which began in 1979.  That
decline exposed deficiencies in the composition of investment, which were less
noticeable when investment was growing more rapidly. Inefficient investments,
particularly those in the coal mining and heavy engineering industries, have
been a burden on the economy in the 1980s.
8.        Corrective Measures.  Throughout the 1985-86 period, the authorities
attempted to improve macroeconomic management and implement the economic
reform. The maintenance of a sound macroeconomic environment was emphasized
in the first Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan No. 2700-HU), which became
effective in mid-1986.  As the seriousness of  the macroeconomic  situation
became evident by mid-1987, the authorities decided, with Bank advice, on a
quantitative target for reducing the fiscal deficit in conjunction with the
second  Industrial  Restructuring  Project  (Loan  No.  2834-HU).   Corrective
measures were taken in mid-1987 to reduce the budget deficit to Ft35 billion
(2.9% of GDP) from the planned level of Ft44 billion, to tighten financial
conditions for enterprises, to reduce domestic demand and thus improve the
convertible currency current account balance.  In March 1987, consumer price
subsidies were reduced to contain the fiscal deficit, and the Forint was



- 4 -
devalued by 8%.  Punitive taxation of wage increases in excess of productivity
gains was applied. Further reductions in consumer subsidies were implemented
in July 1987 and the Forint was devalued by a further 5% in November. These
measures were effective in reversing the deterioration in internal and
external balance, though the extent of the improvement was somewhat less than
the authorities' expectations, partly due to a continued increase in household
consumption.
9.        Real household consumption in 1987 grew by 2.8% compared to the
planned reduction of 0.5-1.0%.  Part of the reason for the unplanned increase
in consumption was anticipatory buying before the introduction of a
value-added tax in January 1988 which, when announced in mid-1987, was
expected to raise consumer prices by an average of 15% in 1988.  In sharp
contrast to 1985-86, however, strong domestic dem.land did not result in a
decrease in nonruble exports, which are estimated to have grown by 5% in 1987
as compared to a fall of 6.6% and 3.8% in 1985 and 1986. A major reason for
the better  export  performance was  an improvement  in the profitability of
nonruble exports. The active exchange rate policy that began in 1986, and the
change in the domestic pricing system in March 1987 to permit nominal
devaluations to increase the profitability of nonruble exports compared with
domestic sales, contributed to the improvement in export performance.
10.       The  turnaround  in  the  performance  of  nonruble  exports  was  a
principal cause of the improvement in the convertible currency trade balance
from a deficit of US$539 million in 1986 to a US$3 million surplus in 1987.
The trend has continued in 1988. The improvement in the trade balance led to
an almost equal improvement in the convertible currency current account, which
ended the year with a deficit of US$847 million - a reduction of US$572
million (40%) from the 1986 level. Despite these improvements, there was a
further large increase in gross and net external indebtedness, mainly arising
from continued valuation losses caused by the depreciation of the US dollar.
11.       The supply side of the economy also improved in 1987 as GDP growth
.ccelerated to 3.4%.  Industrial production grew by 4.1%, reversing the trend
of the previous two years.  In addition, the service sectors continued to grow
faster than the economy-wide average for the same reasons as in 1985-86.
Wheat production was again adversely affected by the third consecutive year of
drought, but higher meat production kept value-added in the agriculture sector
as a whole from falling.
B.        Prospects for 1988 and Beyond
12.       In  order  to  strengthen  and  sustain  the  turnaround  in economic
performance in 1987, the Government developed a medium term Economic
Stabilization and Structural Reform Program for the 1988-90 period described
below (paras. 36-38). The main goal of the program is to stop the growth of
external debt by the end of 1990. The central feature of the program is a
sharp contraction in domestic demand in order to bring about a significant
improvement in the convertible currency current account. The main instruments
for achieving the objectives of the program are: a strict limit on nominal



- 5 -
wage increases, further reduction of the budget deficit, ceilings on the
growth of credit aggregates, an active exchange rate policy, and an active
interest rate policy to raise household and enterprise savings rates.
13.       Medium   term  macroeconomic   projections   on  the  basis  of  the
implementation of the medium term program are attached as Annex 2.  Projected
changes in key macroeconomic indicators are depicted in Figure 3, showing the
turnaround achieved by the economy in 1987, ai  the targeted stabilization in
1988.  The program is expected to lead to a steady improvement in the current
account balance until a near balance is reached in 1990. The Government's net
financial position is expected to continue to improve, due partly to
reductions in support to enterprises. The continued improvement would support
the stabilization of the economy, and improve its responsiveness to the
reforms.   Gross  capital  inflows  are  projected  to  average  US$2.0  billion
annually in 1988-90,  down sharply form tuie 1985-87  levels.   Lower capital
inflows and the improved supply side performance are expected to lead to
improvements in the creditworthiness indicators. Overall, the implementation
of the economic reform, including measures to improve the efficiency of
investment (see below) is expected to lead to a sustainable growth path.
Figure 3
Projection of Key Indicators
(Percent of current prce ODP)
16-
14 -
12-                 svwo
10   1                                                 ,
p4
-2 -                    
0S
-4Aoun aaxP
-s
1982 1983 1964 1985 1986 1987 1066 1069 1990 1991 1992
14.       The Public  Investment Program.   The public investment program for
1988-90  calls   for   increased   allocation   of   investment   favoring   the
manufacturing  industries where Hungary is potentially competitive.   In 1986
there  was  a  shift  in  investment  composition  toward  the  manufacturing
industries and away from the basic materials and electric energy subsectors.



- 6 -
Estimated 1987 results indicate that the favorable trends observed in 1986
continued.  Fixed investment increased by 5.52.  The share of mining continued
to decline, but the share of electric energy, reflecting the large expenditure
on the construction of the Paks nuclear power plant, grew.
15.       The  Government  has agreed  to carry out a review of  the 1989-90
public inivestment plan, under terms of reference agreed with the Bank by the
end of  1988.   The  result  of  the review will be reflected  in the public
investment plan for 1989.  The authorities' efforts to improve the structure
of investment include reducing investments financed by the Central Government
budget from 44% in 1981 to 31% in 1988 and increasing the share of investment
financed by enterprises, which should result in better investment choices as a
consequence of tightened financial discipline.   In 1987 there were 8 large
Central Government projects each exceeding Ft500 million, down from 13 in
1984. The authorities envision no new large projects for the remainder of the
Plan, and have reduced and stretched out expenditures on some of the existing
projects.  In 1988, expenditure on large projects is projected to fall by 15
percent in nominal terms, which would imply a cut of nearly 50 percent since
1983.  Expenditure on Central Target investments, which are mainly for coal
mining, development of the electricity network, rail and road transport, and
the communications system has fallen slightly since 1983.  The Plan for 1988
shows  total target investment spending rising slightly.   A third group of
public investments are concentrated in services such as public health, social
services, education,  culture and others.   Spending on this group has also
fallen sharply since the early part of the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY
A.        Bank Lending Strategy
16.       Since  lending  to Hungary began  in 1983, the Bank's strategy of
assistance has focussed on supporting Hungary's program of structural
adjustment in the economy to make it more efficient, flexible, market
responsive  and  competitive  in  external  markets,   particularly   in  the
convertible currency area. Until 1985, this strategy was reflected in lending
operations focussed on selected sectors, i.e. agriculture, industry, energy
and transport.   Institution building measures, such as the establishment of
project analysis capacity, studies and analysis of road user charges,
strengthening of capacity to analyze relative efficiency of industrial
subsectors, relative prices in agriculture, development of least cost
investment programs and application of long-term marginal cost pricing in the
power subsector were implemented.
17.       Extensive  economic  and  sector  work  in  the  agriculture,  energy
industry, financial and transportation sectors provided the analytical basis
for the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government.  Apart from such sector
specific reviews,  a  review of  public investment1' and the 1984/86 Country
1/ Hungary - Investment Issues and Options
(Report No. 5585-HU, dated August 25, 1986).



- 7 -
Economic Reports and memoranda have focussed on economic policy issues. These
studies have been the basis for the gradual deepening of the ?ank's dialogue
on management of the economy and the design of the economic aId industrial
policy reforms.  A study1' of the policies,  performance and constraints  in
the industrial sector carried out jointly with the Government was particularly
instrumental in this respect.
18.       The 1985-90 industrial policy reforms, which form the cornerstone of
the Bank's lending to Hungary, were designed in close collaboration with the
Bank.  The main vehicle of Bank support to  the  reform  has been  the  two
industrial restructuring projects, with a "hybrid" design which combined
subsector and enterprise restructuring with support to policy changes to
encourage competition, tighten financial discipline and enhance resource
mobility in the economy. As the economy deteriorated during 1985-86, the Bank
advised the Government to accelerate the reform process while further
strengthening  the  macroeconomic  and  sector  policy  content  of  lending
operations.   The proposed loan with its explicit coupling of the economic
stabilization and structural reform objectives is an evolution of this process
in response to the current economic situation.
19.       The close collaboration between Hungary and the Bank in the design
of the economic reform program has resulted in close correspondence between
Hungary's development strategy and the Bank's program of assistance. Future
lending operations will support  the goals of the economic reform.   During
1988-90, the Bank's program of assistance will focus on adjustment,
particularly in industry but also of broader aspects of the economy such as
the incentive  system and the regulatory framework for trade.   There is a
strong complementarit; between adjustment lending and investment lending in
Hungary.  Investment operations in the industry sector are planned to: promote
needed   restructuring   of   enterprises   and   subsectors   toward   improved
international competitiveness; foste- growth of small and medium enterprises
as  well  as  feeder  industries  required  to  deepen  Hungary's  industrial
structure;   strengthen   technological   development   capacities;   and   more
important, support development of the evolving financial institutions.
Systemic reform supported by adjustment operations will provide a supportive
policy and institutional environment and increase the likelihood of success of
inves ::.ent operations.
20.       Investment operations in agriculture, energy and infrastructure have
been designed to further restructuring in those sectors, while the knowledge
and experience gained from the implementation of investment lending operations
has been an important input into the development of the reform program and the
proposed  loan.   Improvements  in  the  capital  stock  resulting  from  the
investment operations in the productive sectors of the economy are also needed
to establish a sustainable supply response.
21.       The  Bank also plays a role through the catalytic effect of its
assistance  program  on  other  international  lenders.    This  will  be  a
particularly  crucial  role  in  1988-90  when  Hungary  needs  access  to
international capital markets. Successful stabilization combined with the
1/ Hungary - Industrial Policy, Performance and Prospects for Adjustment
(Report No. 6124-HU, dated September 30, 1986.)



-
vigorous and consistent implementation of the economic reform will improve
Hungary's creditworthiness and its standing among international lenders.  The
Bank s role as a catalyst for other lenders will gradually decrease, and after
1990 the overall level of lending to Hungary is expected to be at a level
consistent with continued support for economic reform and structuring, which
is  a medium-term  process.   The  Bank's  exposure  in Hungary  is  relatively
modest. The Bank's share of the disbursed and outstanding debt of Hungary is
projected to be 10.7% in 1993, and its share in debt service will reach 8.7%.
Measured by the exposure indicators, the risk to the Bank will remain
manageable.
B.        Status of Bank Group Operations
22.       The Bank, as of March 31, 1988, had provided 19 loans for a total of
US$1,312.5 million (Annex 4). These include six B-loans with a Bank share of
US$136  million.   Of  the total Bank commitment,  43% was  in the  industrial
sector, 32% in the agricultural sector, 16% in the energy sector, and 8% in
the transport sector.
23.       The  Bank was successful  in mobilizing  six commercial  cofinancing
syndications for the Bank-assisted operations in FY83 to FY85. They helped to
mobilize nearly US$1.2 billion, including the Bank's contribution of US$136
million.  In all these cofinancing operations,  the Bank was able to improve
the terms over the most recent Hungarian borrowings and to introduce the
country to commercial banks from which it had not borrcwed previously.   The
Bank's participation in B-loans was discontinued in 1985 after Hungary had
regained adequate access to financial markets on favorable terms.
24.       Project   implementation   in   general   has   been   satisfactory.
Disbursement performance has been good.  Total disbursements at the end of
March 1988 amounted to US$820.4 million.   The disbursement ratio (calculated
as total disbursements in a fiscal year divided by the undisbursed amount at
the end of the previous fiscal year) has been good at about 40%.
25.       Since Hungary joined IFC in April 1985, IFC's activities focussed on
promotion of direct foreign investment through joint ventures and in the
cooperative sector.  IFC participated in the establishment of a private joint
venture bank and in financing two industrial ventures. IFC's total commitment
in these operations amounts to US$19.3 million.   It is actively seeking  to
participate   in   other   projects,   especially   those   requiring   technical
collaboration with foreign  partners.   IFC's  participation  would  also  help
develop new financial instruments and activities such as leasing.
PART III - THE FRAMEWORK FOR INDUSTRIAL POLICY REFORM
A.        Structure and Performance of Industry
26.       Industry is the largest sector  in the economy.   It accounts  for
about one third of GDP, employment, and fixed investment and for about 75% of



- 9 -
total exports (Table below).  The sector can be divided into the energy (coal,
gas and oil) and basic materials subsectors, which represent 20-252 of
industrial value added, and the manufacturing subsectors.  The former group
includes the "smokestack" industries of Hungary, coal-mining and ferrous
metallurgy.  The poor performance of these industries has been a drain on the
economy.  The authorities  have recognized the need for restructuring  these
subsectors, and a restructuring plan for metallurgy that will eliminate the
need for Government subsidies after 1990 is being implemented.  Restructuring
the coal-mining subsector is more difficult, principally because of ti  Larger
number  of  workers  involved  and  the  potential  localized  area  impact.
Nevertheless, the authorities recognize the need to close unprofitable pits
and are developing a restructuring plan for the coal-mining subsector which
will be finalized by the end of 1988 (para. 49).
Selected Data on the Industrial Sector (1986)
(Ft billion and Percentages)
GDP             Investment      Nonruble Exports
Amount     %        Amount     X        Amount       X
Mining                 49.1    15.5        16.6    22.9         1.2       0.8
Electric Energy        28.5     9.0        13.6    18.8         0.0       0.0
Metallurgy              9.8     3.1         4.1     5.6        20.7      13.2
Engineering           110.2    34.9         8.7    12.0        40.9      26.0
Building Materials    46.2    14.6          2.2     3.0        24.0      15.3
Chemicals              42.5    13.4        12.5    17.3        36.3      23.1
Light Industry         14.8     4.7         5.7     7.9         2.8       1.8
Food Processing        10.3     3.3         8.8    12.2        30.5      19.4
Other                   4.6     1.5         0.2     0.3         0.7       0.4
Total                 316.0   100.0        72.4   100.0       157.1    100.0
27.       A study of the policies, performance and constraints affecting the
industrial sector was carried out collaboratively by the Government and the
Bank (para. 49) to analyze the international competitiveness of Hungarian
industry.  Most of the manufacturing industries were found to be potentially
competitive as measured by a domestic resource cost (DRC) below 1.1.  Hungary
is also competitive in construction materials, chemicals and light industry.
Total factor productivity growth during 1980-85 was positive in these
subsectors, a marked contrast to the energy and basic materials subsectors.
The study also concluded, however, that growth in productivity in the
manufacturing subsectors, especially in capital productivity, was below
international norms.
28.       Industrial production grew by 4.12 in 198?, a marked  improvement
over 1985-86.  Within the industrial sector, the chemicals, electric energy,
engineering and machinery, and construction materials subsectors recorded
better than average growth.  Part of the improvement is attributable to the



- 10 -
estimated 6.0% growth in nonruble exports by units in these subsectors, with a
particularly strong growth in the chemical and light industry subsectors.
This export performance indicates improvements in the competitiver.ess of the
sector.
29.       Improved performance  of  the  industrial  sector  is  a key  to  the
success of the program in the medium term. There is evidence that performance
of industry is improving following two disappointing years in 1985-86.  While
some of the improvement was due to strong domestic demand, nonruble exports
also increased by an estimated 5%, a change from earlier years when domestic
demand had the effect of crowding-out nonruble exports.  The improvement in
incentives for nonruble exports compared with either domestic sales or ruble
exports accounts for some of the  improvement.   The  Government  intends  to
maintain the incentives for nonruble exports through an active exchange rate
policy.
B.        Strategic Issues in the Industrial Sector
30.       One of the primary reasons for the poor performance of industry has
been  the  policy  environment  within  which  the  sector  has  operated.   The
economic reform replaced the physical planning system with a new system of
economic  planning and  management  linked to markets.   While this  important
achievement enhanced economic efficiency in industry, some strategic issues
remain.   These  are:  (a)  limited  domestic  and  international  competition,
(b) limited resource mobility, and (c) the lack of financial discipline and
weak autonomy of enterprises. These issues are discussed below.
31.       Competition.   Limited  domestic  and  international  competition  has
sharply curtailed incentives for improved performance and productivity
resulting  in  an  adverse   impact  on   technological,   quality  and  cost
competitiveness. The regulatory, financial, and other barriers to free entry
and exit of enterprises created a highly concentrated industrial structure and
limited the degree of domestic competition and resource mobility.  Legal forms
of enterprises acceptable to social ownership were limited. Credit allocation
preference was given to large state enterprises, crowding out small and medium
enterprises. Liquidation of state enterprises was traditionally considered to
be incompatible with the principle of the indivisibility of social property
and with the guarantee of full employment.  Failing enterprises were either
subsidized or merged with other enterprises.
32.       The   most   important   instrument   that   limited   international
competition,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  was  the  state  regulation  of
international trade until  1986.   Competition among the state foreign trade
organizations was weak. Regulatory barriers to entry included restrictions on
product categories of the trading organizations, and severely limited trading
rights granted to other enterprises.   Increased competition in international
trade activity was therefore one of the earliest reform measures under which
producing enterprises were given the right to engage in export trade without
going through a  foreign  trade  organization.   Quantitative  restrictions  on
imports, which severely limited import competition, were reversed in 1985.
33.       Resource  Mobility.   Structural  adjustment  in  industry  has  been
impeded by institutional and policy constraints on the reallocation of



- 11 -
resources away from uneconomic activities and towards activities where Hungary
has  a  dynamic  comparative  advantage  and  the  potential  for  increased
convertible currency exports.   The capital market as such had not existed
during most of the post-war period and securities as instruments for resource
mobilization  and investment were  introduced only recently.   Competition  in
banking began to develop with the banking reform of 1987, when independent
commercial banks were set up to take over credit activities of the National
Bank of Hungary (NBH) but is still modest. These conditions have in general
limited efficient mobility of capital in the economy. Among important factors
that limited resource mobility, particularly out of uneconomic activities,
were the barriers to exit of enterprises.
34.       Since 1981, most industrial products have been placed under pricing
rules designed to align them with world market prices, reflecting the actual
or potential import or export prices of the convertible currency area.  From
1987, the only pricing rule that exists is the limitation that domestic prices
should not exceed the cost of comparable imports plus tariffs. These pricing
rules represent a major departure from the preceding regime, where most prices
were set administratively on the basis of production costs.   Wage policy,
implemented historically through wage level guidelines and heavy taxation on
wage increases, resulted in small wage differentials which reduced labor
mobility.
35.       Enterprise Discipline and Autonomy.  The above constraints combined
with the framework in which state enterprises were managed, including no
bankruptcy risk until 1986 and limited managerial autonomy, molded enterprise
behavior away from attention to market demand, profits, and cost and quality
performance.   Instead,  enterprises  focussed  on bargaining  with  the  State,
which was reflected in their organization, planning, marketing and financial
management capability.  A high tax incidence on profits further reduced the
profit orientation of industrial enterprises. This past environment resulted
in  little  premium  being  attached  to  profitability,  financial  prudence,
innovation and productivity improvement.
C.        The Economic Stabilization and Structural Reform Program
36.       The Government has recognized that an industrial policy reform could
proceed and result in the required supply response only under the framework of
supportive macroeconomic  policies.   It was  evident  from  the disappointing
performance of the industrial sector during 1985-86 that the macroeconomic
policies  needed  to  be  tightened  to  support   industrial  policy  reform.
Recognizing the shortcomings of past macroeconomic policies and the need to
contain and eventually halt the increase in convertible currency debt, the
authorities developed an Economic Stabilization and Structural Reform Program
in mid-1987 that shifted the focus of the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90)
toward a greater emphasis on stabilization and acceleration of structural
reform. The main goal of the program, which is summarized in Annex 5, is to
stop the growth of external debt by the end of 1990.  The central feature of
the   program  is  a  sharp contraction  in domestic demand to brir.g about a
significant improvement  in  the  convertible  currency  current  account.   The
authorities acknowledge that past stabilization efforts have set back the
economic reform and are determined to avoid a repetition of a similar
occurrence by pursuing accelerated implementation of structural reforms in
parallel with the economic stabilization program.



- 12 -
37.       The Macroeconomic Program.  The Parliament approved the Government's
program in September 1987.   The program for 1988 requires a  reduction  in
domestic absorption of 1.25%.  Real wages are to decline by 9%, and household
consumption by 2.0-2.5%. The program's acceptance of real cuts in household
consumption is a major policy shift, as household consumption has not fallen
in over thirty years.  There is political consensus that these developments
are unavoidable if economic stabilization and recovery is to be achieved.
38.       In September  1987,  the  Government  requested  IMF  support  to its
program.   Agreement  was  reached  in January  1988  on a  one  year  Standby
Arrangement of SDR265.35 million (about US$365 million), which was approved by
the IMF board on May 16, 1988.  The Government has agreed to implement  (a) a
reduction in real wages, household consumption, and domestic absorption to
bring down the budgetary and current account deficits to FtlO.4 billion (0.8%
of GDP) and US$500 million (1.9% of GDP) respectively in 1988;  (b) strict
limits on credit expansion; and (c) use of an active etchange policy.   In
addition to these macroeconomic stabilization features, the agreement supports
a number of broader medium term structural reform measures.  These include: a
ceiling on support to loss-making enterprises; tax, wage and price reforms;
liberalization of export trade; a flexible interest rate policy, banking
reform, and capital market and corporate legislation reform.
D.        Industrial Policy Reforms
39.       Within  the  overall  economic  stabilization  and  structural  reform
program, the three issues of strategic importance for the industrial sector
(paras. 31-35) have been formulated into comprehensive industrial policy
reforms by addressing them through both the factor and product markets in
which industrial enterprises operate. This approach has been supplemented by
strengthening the basic building blocks of competitive and efficient markets
-- liberal entry, free exit, and freedom of production and exchange by
autonomous economic entities.  The industrial policy reform consists of the
following eleven components which are central to the reform of the Hungarian
economic  system:   entry  of enterprises;  liquidation;  international  trade;
pricing; taxation; wage differentiation and worker mobility; capital market
development; the banking system; enterprise management system; direct foreign
investment; and technology development.
40.       The objectives,  major elements and the medium term timetable for
industrial policy reforms were developed by the Government jointly with the
Bank and are outlined in the Letters of Intent submitted to the Bank by the
Hungarian authorities in May 1986 and 1987, which formed the basis for the
first two industrial restructuring projects.  Details were presented in the
Staff Appraisal Report for the First Industrial Restructuring Project (Report
No. 6069-HU, dated May 7, 1986), and updated in the Staff Appraisal Report for
the Second Industrial Restructuring Project (Report No. 6643-HU, dated May 15,
1987).
41.       Progress since 1985.  The industrial policy reforms across all the
11 areas form an integrated package of structural changes in the industrial
sector. While coordinated action on all areas is essential for the reform to
produce its full effect,  the emphasis given to individual areas has changed



- 13 -
from year to year according to evolving circumstances.   During 1985-87, the
highest priority was given to: (a) reform of the enterprise management system,
(b) enactment of the liquidation framework, (c) increased competition in
international trade activity, (d) setting up a two tier banking system,
(e) reform of the system of enterprise accounting and information disclosure
practices, and (f) preparation of the tax reform.   A Restructuring  Council
headed by the Deputy President of NPO and including representatives of various
Government  agencies  and  NBH  was  set  up  under  the  First  Industrial
Restructuring Project to monitor the timely introduction of the agreed reform
measures.   The Council  is supported by a Policy Task Force.   Since  1985,
measures have been implemented in all of these areas according to the
commitments agreed under the first two projects.
42.       Assessment  of  the  Reforms.   The  reforms  as  reflected  in  the
Government's Letters of Intent are intrinsically sound and remain adequate in
the current economic environment.   The implementation of  the  reforms,  and
consequently,  their  results  have  clearly  fallen  short  especially  during
1985-86.  However, the Hungarian reform process has surmounted, in the last
two years, some major ideological and political barriers that appeared
insurmountable only a short time ago, and which remain serious obstacles to
reform in some neighboring socialist countries.  These include 'hr rtsistance
to recognizing the possibility of open unemployment and of liquidation of
state enterprises; existence of wage differentials; legalizing private
entrepreneurship and ownership of means of production; taxation of private
incomes; and even to considering mixed ownership of enterprises. Widespread
systemic reforms such as those underway in Hungary will take several years to
produce the desired changes in managerial attitudes and behavior, and
ultimately, stronger economic growth. The focus of the proposed operation is
to ensure that the necessary framework of incentives and supportive measures
is put in place in an accelerated and consistent manner to increase the
prospect of success.
43.       The   1988-90  Industrial   Policy  Reforms.   As  in  the  earlier
operations, the industrial policy reforms to be implemented during 1988-90
will address all 11 policy areas.  The objectives continue to be to tighten
financial  discipline  in  the enterprise  sector,  increase  competition   and
improve resource mobility.  Unlike in the 1985-86 period, industrial policy
reforms will proceed under a much more supportive macroeconomic policy
framework.   The highest priority will be accorded to those areas which are
likely to have immediate impact on Hungary's macroeconomic problems.   These
are: (a) further reduction in budgetary support to inefficient enterprises and
subsectors   and   stringent   application   of   the   liquidation   framework;
(b) strengthened incentives for convertible currency exports, with necessary
changes in regulations; (c) facilitation of entry of new enterprises and
private entrepreneurship; (d) further reform of taxation, pricing and wage
systems; and (e) reduction in producer and consumer subsidies.   The policy
industrial reforms for 1988-90 agreed with the Government are contained in the
Government's Letter of Sector Development Policies, dated May 26, 1988
attached as Annex 6 and discussed below.
1.   Entry of Enterprises
44.       Increased competition is one of the most important facets of the
reform.  The Government will therefore  liberalize regulations  to facilitate



- 14 -
the establishment of different forms of economic associations and conversion
to other forms.   Currently,  legislation is being finalized permitting:  (i)
state enterprises to convert themselves into joint-stock companies, (ii)
individuals  to  own  negotiable  and  transferable  shares  in  joint-stock
companies, and (iii) individuals to form limited liability and joint-stock
companies. The draft legislation will be approved by the Council of Ministers
in mid-1988, and the Law of Association introduced in Parliament in its autumn
session.   Following Parliament's  approval,  the  legislation  is expected  to
become effective from January 1, 1989.
45.       The  Government  will  continue  to  encourage  the  small  scale,
essentially private,  sector which has proved  to be dynamic.   The  maximum
number of employees permitted in private businesses has been doubled from 15
to  30.   Amendments  have been made  to  the current  legislation  to  permit
individuals to form limited liability associations together with legal
entities.   Incentives  are  being  continued  for  enterprises  to  set  up
subsidiaries or autonomous profit centers, and to promote small and medium
enterprises.   Building  on  significant  past  progress  in  this  direction,  a
further 24 new enterprises have been established by breaking up State
enterprises. This process is planned to continue during 1988-90.
2.   Liquidation and Restructuring of Inefficient Enterprises
46.       The Government has recognized the critical importance of tightening
financial discipline among enterprises to bring about greater efficiency and
market  orientation.   Accordingly,  bankruptcy  legislation  was  given  high
priority  and  enacted  in  1986.   The  legislation  has  generally  deterred
companies from taking imprudent financial decisions, though the number of
actual liquidations of State enterprises has been limited.  The Government
will implement the bankruptcy legislation more forcefully in 1988, including
initiation by the State of liquidation proceedings against enterprises in
arrears of Government dues.   Commercial banks are now required to  set  up
additional provisions for doubtful debts in addition to normal risk reserves.
These provisions will be equivalent to 201 of those debts classified as
non-performing according to the criteria established by the Bank Supervisory
Board.  This, together with strict credit policies, will tighten financial
discipline in the economy.
47.       Along  with  the  enactment  of  the  bankruptcy  legislation,  a
Refloatation Organization was set up to coordinate and monitor financial
workouts of enterprises in financial difficulty.  The Government has decided
to limit enterprise and subsector specific financial support designed to
alleviate financial difficulties of enterprises to that provided under the
liquidation/refloatation  framework,  with  the  exception  of  coal  mining
(para. 49), and of a Ft600 million Government guarantee for bank loans to
enterprises that are unable to "gross up" their wage bills in 1988 following
the  tax  reform.   To  prevent  excessive  recourse  to  the  Refloatation
Organization, the 1988 budget allocation to the Refloatation Fund was reduced
to Ftl.5 billion, 251 below 1987 nominal levels. State guarantees for the
issue of bonds to finance the Refloatation Fund have been eliminated.
Further, the Government is developing programs for the resolution of problems
in crisis subsectors  (coal mining and ferrous metallurgy),  and some major



- 15 -
enterprises known to be in chronic financial difficulties.  Major among these
is Ganz-Mavag, one of the largest engineering units in Hungary.  Some of these
programs are now being implemented, while the others are being reviewed prior
to a final decision.   The programs aim at restructuring of enterprises  in
these subsectors, closure of non-viable units, reductions in labor force, and
shifting production to more profitable and competitive activities permitting
the reduction and elimination of Government support.
48.       In the ferrous metallurgy subsector, current subsidies other than
CMEA Price Equalization (Ft5 billion in 1988), have been eliminated. Plans to
reduce capacity and rationalize the product mix across two of the three steel
plants, which are loss-making, to enable the units to become financially
self-sufficient  have  been  approved.   As  part of  these  plans,  Government
investment support will be limited to restructuring existing capacities and
will not exceed Ft2.0 billion during 1988-90.
49.       In  the  coal  mining  subsector,  the  Government  is  developing  a
restructuring plan, which will be reviewed by the Bank and then finalized by
the end of 1988. The plan will include: a substantial reduction in the level
of coal production from underground mines; review of the feasibility of import
of energy to substitute coal from underground mines; identification of pits
whose coal production cost are higher than those for comparable energy source
imports, a timetable for closure of uneconomic pits and implementing
concurrent reductions in labor, especially administrative staff.   The  plan
will be implemented from 1989 to progressively reduce subsidies to coal mining
starting with a substantial reduction from the 1988 budget allocation of
FtlO.6 billion.
3.   International Trade
50.       The Government recognizes  that external competition and a liberal
import policy is an essential ingredient of the policy to increase competitive
pressure  on  domestic  enterprises  to  improve  efficiency.   The  Government
intends to maintain the incentives currently provided to investments for
export to convertible currency areas under the export promotion program
introduced in 1986. The Government is taking steps to increase the relative
profitability of exports to convertible currency markets by eliminating the
guaranteed profitability of exports to CMEA. The Government is streamlining
the procedures for import licensing to ensure that licenses are issued to
exporters in an expeditious way to avoid export constraints.
51.       To achieve the needed improvement in the convertible currency trade
balance, the Government will rely on market based instruments and tight demand
management.   The  Government  will  maintain  the  import  regime  free  of
quantitative restrictions in line with Hungary's protocol with the GATT. The
average level of import tariffs was reduced from 23% in 1980 to 16% in 1987 in
eight annual steps as agreed by the Government with the GATT in 1980.  To
foster  greater  impcrt  competition,  the  Government  will  encourage  more
widespread use of international competitive bidding for goods and services in
invest.nents financed from the Government budget or from the commercial banks.
52.       The Government has already liberalized access to foreign  trading
rights, thus promoting a closer link between production and trade, and



- 16 -
increased competition in foreign trading activities.  As of January 1, 1988
all legal entities may register automatically to conduct foreign trade in
convertible currencies subject only to prescribed criteria of staff capability
and financial viability.  350 enterprises have already been registered, while
a further 83 applications are being processed.
53.       Finally, with the establishment of the new Ministry of Trade,  the
Government has reorganized the responsibilities related to foreign trade.  In
this context, the Government has agreed to review the regulatory framework
influencing convertible currency foreign trade, particularly imports, under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank, by the end of 1988. In light of the
outcome of the review, the Government will identify necessary changes to make
the framework more efficient in line with the Government's policy objectives.
Thereafter the Government w-ll develop a timetable for implementing the
necessary changes beginning in 1989.
4.   Pricing
54.       The Government recognizes that prices should respond to demand and
supply and changes in the structure of relative prices are crucial for
efficient  resource  allocation.   The  Government  will  increasingly  replace
administrative price determination by market mechanisms which will help
develop a flexible and dynamic economy integrated more effectively into world
markets.   For  inflation  control,  the Government  will  rely on appropriate
monetary and fiscal policies. The system of price determination has been very
considerably  simplified  and  liberalized  since  1985.   In  1986,  the Export
Pricing Rule, which set prices for domestic sales in line with those of export
sales was abolished.  The basic limitation of prices in the domestic market is
now the remaining rule that such prices should not exceed the landed cost of
comparable imports (The Import Pricing Rule).  In order to monitor expected
price developments, the Government can require advance reporting of price
increases  by  producers.   In cases where markets are dominated by a small
number of firms or where other major market imperfections exist, there is a
mechanism for the price authorities to arrange consultations regarding price
levels  between  producers  and  consumers.   This  is  supplemented  by  the
provisions of the Law of Unfair Economic Practices, which is basically
legislation designed to prevernt speculative and exploitative behavior by
producers operating in imperfect markets.
55.       In the context of the introduction of the VAT, the Government found
it necessary to impose temporary administrative control of price movements
from August 1987, requiring prior reporting of all intended price increases to
the Government.  This requirement was abolished on April 1, 1988, after which
enterprises are free to change most prices.
56.       Since January 1, 1988, administratively determined consumer prices
are limited mainly to energy, passenger and city transport, milk and some
items of basic foods and pharmaceuticals, which amount to no more than 202 of
consumer goods.  Prices of the remaining 80% of consumer goods are classified
as belonging to the free pricing category, of which 22% are subject to advance
reporting of price increases to the Government, 5b to procedures under which
producers and buyers can be brought together for consultations, and the



- 17 -
remaining 53% are subject only to the Import Pricing Rule and the Law of
Unfair Economic Practices.   The Government has agreed to increase the last
proportion to at least 62.5% by January 1, 1989.
57.       Prices  of  257  of  the  value  of  producer  goods  turnover  remain
administratively set, mainly for energy, transport, some agricultural products
and chemicals. Out of the remaining 75%, price increases have to be reported
in advance to the Government in respect of 15% of turnover, and consultations
can be required in respect of another 3%.  Prices of the remaining 57% of the
value of producer goods turnover are subject only to the general pricing rule.
58.       The Government has agreed to carry out a study, by end of 1988,
under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, of the scope of administrative
price setting, advance reporting requirements and consultation procedures with
a view to limiting their coverage and improving the effectiveness of market
forces  in  the  economy.   The  Government  plans  to  review  the  level  of
administratively determined consumer and producer prices and the process for
setting them to identify possible improvements and reductions in their scope.
The Government intends to implement the results of the review during 1989
after consultations with the Bank.  In 1989 and 1990 The Government intends to
reduce the number of goods covered by advance reporting requirements. Where
advance reporting requirements are designed to enable monitoring of expected
price developments, the Government will replace them by ex-post reporting of
price levels.
59.       The Government is taking steps to develop legislation to prevent
monopolistic  behavior  for  enactment  in  1989.   Meanwhile,   the  pricing
authorities will limit their consultations with producers and consumers to
markets dominated by a small number of firms or where other major market
imperfections  exist.   The Government will review the experience with these
consultations, and also consider the use of imports to enforce market
discipline   in   cases   of   unfair   market   practices,   or   other  market
imperfections. Based on such reviews, the Government expects to be able to
increase the share of consumer prices subject only to the Import Pricing Rule
and the Law of Unfair Economic Practices to about 70% by January 1, 1990, with
this percentage being determined finally after the reviews have been completed.
5.   Taxation and Subsidies
60.       A major achievement of the Government in 1987 was the enactment of
the tax reform, comprising the introduction of a value added tax and personal
income tax, and the elimination of a large number of existing taxes on
enterprises. The tax reform was implemented effective from January 1, 1988.
The tax reform eliminated many distortions to enterprise decision-making and
will enable efficient enterprises to retain a greater proportion of their
profits which should lead to long-run efficiency gains. Aggregate corporate
profit taxes are projected to decrease by Ft44 billion and indirect taxes to
increase by FtllO billion (8% of GDP).
61.       The Government intends to make further reforms in the tax system to
make it neutral with respect to form of association. By January 1, 1989, the
Countervalue Tax (which is a tax applied to turnover of private enterprises)



- 18 -
will be eliminated and the Entrepreneurial Tax (which is a tax equal to 20% of
the profit of a private entrepreneur) will be integrated into the personal and
corporate profit taxes including a provision for the deduction of the cost of
he  entrepreneur's  labor  income  for  tax  purposes.   The  Government  will
undertake a further streamlining of the legal framework of enterprise taxation
and introduce a new unified law for the taxation of business profits not later
than January 1, 1990.
62.       In view of the need  for  strict  demand management  in  1988,  the
Government will initially rebate only 20% of the value added tax paid on goods
used for investment. The proportion will increase to 40% from 1989, 60% from
1990, 80% from 1991, and 100% from 1992.
63.       In addition to the tax reform, a subsidy reduction program will
further restructure the role of the Government budget in the economy.  In 1988
total current producer and consumer subsidies from the State budget, the
budget of the Local Councils and Extrabudgetary Funds were reduced by about
15%, i.e. by Ft37.1 billion to Ft204.9 billion.  This represents a reduction
of about 25-30% in real terms as the inflation rate is expected to be about
15% in 1988.  The Government is committed to continue reducing subsidies and
financial support. The Government will develop a program by October 1988 to
reduce these subsidies and financial support from the 1988 Plan level of
Ft204.9 billion by at least 10% per year in 1989 and 1990, which will be a
much larger reduction in real terms, given the expected inflation rate.
6.   Wage Differentiation and Worker Mobility
64.       The  Government  supports  the principle  of  free  determination  of
individual earnings based on performance.   However,  given the necessity of
very tight demand management policies in 1988, the Government fourd it
necessary to enforce a general ceiling on increases in enterprises' wage
bill. During 1988, enterprises will be subject to a 2.5% nominal ceiling on
the  growth  of  their  total  wage  bill.   Within  the  aggregate  ceiling,
enterprises could generate savings by releasing excess labor and apply such
savings to increase wages for the remaining work force by more than 2.5%. The
mandatory upper limits of wage scales have been removed from 1988 to enlarge
the scope for such wage differentiation.  The only exception to the general
ceiling on wage increases will be in respect of a small group of enterprises
(employing at present 6% of the labor force) meeting stringent objective
criteria of profitability, creditworthiness, and non-reliance on budgetary
subsidies.
65.       The Government  intends to elaborate a reform of the wage system
during 1988,  to be implemented beginning from January 1, 1989.  The reform
will enable enterprises, in the productive sectors (i.e., only excluding
services) to determine individual worker's earnings freely, subject to an
overall ceiling on the wage bill of the enterprise related to performance,
permitting sufficieilt scope for wage differentiation.   This  is designed to
address the need for major shifts in employment patterns likely to arise over
the next few years as a result of industrial restructuring.
66.       A significant step has been taken in 1988 with the establishment of
the Employment Fund with a budget of Ftl.2 billion to strengthen measures for



- 19 -
retraining and facilitate labor mobility.   The Government will continue to
modify the conditions for use of the Fund based on experience.
7. Capital Markets
67.       Further   development   of   the   capital   markets   for   efficient
mobilization  and  allocation  of  capital  will  continue.   The  new  Law  of
Association,  the  conversion  of  some  state  enterprises  into  joint-stock
companies, and proposals for establishment of securities market regulation,
will help to develop the capital market. As a first step, the Government has
already enabled introduction of "capital tickets", which are a redeemable,
non-voting, profit sharing instrument to be issued to employees by their
enterprises in 1988.  The enterprise and household bond markets have been
integrated with the removal of the requirement of a State guarantee for bonds
sold to the population.   The Government will further modify the regulatory
environment to promote development of insurance, and develop plans to operate
the social security system on a self-sustaining basis. These measures should
also help to strengthen the development of the capital market.
68.       To ensure adequate recognition of profits and equity capital as well
as the availability of timely and reliable information about the financial
position of enterprises and potential borrowers to the banks and investors,
new accounting standards, auditing and di3closure requirements were introduced
in January 1988.
69.       During  1987,  several  financial  institutions,  including  insurance
companies, commercial and specialized banks, joined together to develop a
credit information system and to share information on bond issues and
trading.   The Government will  support  this initiative to develop a stock
exchange that can serve the needs of an active and diversified financial
market.
8. Banking System
70.       In 1987, credit functions of NBH were separated from its central
banking functions and entrusted to competitive, full service domestic
commercial  banks  set up  for  the purpose.   As  a  further step to promote
competition among banks,   enterprises  will  be  permitted  to  open  current
accounts with more than one commercial bank of their choice from January 1,
1989. A study of the policies and measures needed for the development and
reform of the financial sector was carried out collaboratively by the Bank and
the Government in 1987.  The study concluded that the most important step to
be taken is to integrate the interest rates for enterprises and households in
order to unify the flow of savings among all sources and uses through the
banking system. The main obstacle to this integration has been the system of
subsidized housing loans financed out of low interest rate household
deposits.   To rectify this siluation,  the Government has agreed to develop
comprehensive proposals for a new housing finance system and review the
proposals with the Bank by the end of 1988.
71.       As a preliminary step towards the integration of banking services,
commercial banks have been permitted during 1988 to issue bonds to households
to mobilize resources and to provide banking services to entrepreneurs.



- 20 -
Concurrently with the development and introduction of the new system of
housing finance, the Government would be able to gradually integrate interest
rates in the two banking systems and integrate the banking system fully.  By
January 1, 1989 the Government will initiate implementation of the integration
of banking services for households and enterprises and continue the process,
with full integration planned in 1989-90.
72.       New instruments such as treasury bills were introduced in 1988 to
strengthen the effectiveness  of monetary policy.   Graduated  interest  rates
have been introduced to improve the refinancing mechanism to reduce excess
liquidity in the banking system and facilitate better management of monetary
policy. The Government will continue to review the interest rate structure,
refinancing criteria and reserve requirements to improve the effectiveness of
monetary policy, resource mobilization and allocation.
73.       By June 1988, the newly established commercial banks will carry out
a portfolio review by independent auditors to determine the extent of
non-performing loans and set up provisions as necessary in accordance with the
regulations issued by the State Bank Supervision Board. Steps will be taken to
strengthen and  systematize  the  inter-bank market.   A  clearing  center for
checks and payments is being established with Bank funding and technical
assistance.
74.       The Government intends to introduce foreign exchange operations by
commercial banks gradually, commencing in 1988. For the time being, borrowing
in international financial markets will be carried out exclusively by NBH in
view of the need for very careful management of the country's external debt.
9.   Enterprise Management System
75.       The Government intends to extend the system of autonomous enterprise
management, which is currently based on management by partly elected
enterprise councils or by enterprise assemblies.  While the experience with
the present system is too short to draw any definite conclusions at present,
modifications will be made as required in the light of experience in the next
two years, especially as deregulation of prices and wages is progressively
implemented.
76.       As mentioned earlier (para. 44), the new Law of Association will
permit State enterprises to convert themselves into joint stock companies.
The Government believes that the decision for such conversion should be taken
at the initiative of the enterprise managements themselves.  To encourage the
conversion process, the Government will identify an initial group of
enterprises and facilitate their conversion commencing in l989.
10. Direct Foreign Investment
77.       The Government recognizes the contribution direct foreign investment
could make to improving the structure and performance of the Hungarian economy
by enabling infusion of foreign capital, technology and management know-how.
Besides intensifying promotional campaigns to attract foreign capital and
continuing to enter into investment protection agreements with other
countries, the Government will continue to assess the effectiveness of the
incentives framework, rules, regulations and operating environment for direct



- 21 -
foreign investment and implement modifications as necessary in the context of
the newly introduced tax reform and the proposed law of association. Hungary
deposited its instruments of ratification of the Convention establishing the
Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency on April 21, 1988.
11. Technology Development
78.       Technology  development  is  one  of  the  major  objectives  of  the
program. The reform of the tax system and other policy areas radically
improves  the  prospects  for  technology  development.   The  Government  also
introduced measures  for  improving  the  accounting  treatment  of  intangible
assets sucb as intellectual property, e.g. patents and copyrights, and is
continuing to develop measures  for the accounting treatment of disembodied
technology, which will provide necessary incentives for R&D. The Government
intends to review the 12 national R&D programs with a view to concentrating
resources on a few selected priority areas, instead of diffusing them thinly
and widely.   The Government will streamline  the procedure for approval  of
licensing, leading to a registration mechanism instead of individual approvals
by January 1, 1989. Finally, the Government will continue the effort to make
R&D by enterprises more market oriented, and increase the proportion of R&D
resources available to enterprises for market oriented R&D activities.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.        Loan Features and Implementation
79.       Loan Design.  The proposed sector adjustment loan would support the
Government's  Economic  Stabilization  and  Structural  Reform  Program.   The
program will ensure a supportive macroeconomic environment for consistent
implementation of industrial  policy  reforms.   The  industrial  reforms  will
address all the eleven industrial policy reform areas (para. 39). However, at
the present stage, the highest priority must be accorded to those areas which
are most likely to have an immediate macroeconomic impact and on the
realization of the main reform objectives (financial discipline, enhancement
of  competition,  and  resource mobility).   The agreed  program,  as  well  as
conditionality for the release of the second tranche of the loan, is designed
to address these areas in particular.
80.       Loan Amount and Borrower.  The loan in the amount of US$200 million
will be made to the Government of Hungary, which will  make  the  proceeds
available to NBH, which will administer and disburse the funds. NBH will:
(a) maintain separate accounts to record and monitor disbursements and
repayments; and (b) arrange for an audit of such accounts by auditors
acceptable to the Bank and submit certified copies of the relevant accounts to
the Bank within six months of the loan's effectiveness and then on an annual
basis. The auditor's report will include an opinion on whether satisfactory
procedures are in operation at NBH regarding the use of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE).
81.       Utilization.  The proposed loan would finance about 52 of Hungary's
convertible currency imports over the disbursement period (July 1988-June
1989). The proposed loan would finance all goods to be imported into Hungary



- 22 -
except those financed by other sources and a specific list of excluded goods
such as military or para-military items, luxury goods, nuclear reactors and
parts, and uranium. The foreign exchange made available would be finally used
mostly by enterprises.   They would raise  the local currency equivalent of
their  foreign  currency  needs  either  out  of  their own  resources,  or  by
borrowing from commercial banks.  The banks would certify the availability of
local currency to NBH after satisfying themselves of the financial viability
of the enterprises in cases where the local currency resources are being
provided  through  additional  credits.   NBH would  then  open  the  letter  of
credit, and on delivery of the imported goods, make the necessary payment in
foreign currency and debit the enterprise's account.
82.       Procurement.   Procurement of goods costing more than US$5 million
will be through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.  Certain commonly traded commodities may be
purchased through price quotations from organized international commodity
markets.   All  contracts  of  lesser  value  would  be awarded  through  normal
channels on the basis of normal procurement procedures of the agencies
concerned, which are judged to be satisfactory.
83.       Disbursement.   The loan will be disbursed  in two equal tranches.
The first tranche of US$100 million will be available on effectiveness, while
the second tranche of US$100 million will be released on fulfillment of
tranche  release  conditions  (para.  86).   To  simplify  disbursement,  only
invoices  with  a  minimum   value  of  US$50,000  will  be  eligible  for
disbursement. The loan would be disbursed only against foreign expenditures.
In order to ensure that Hungary will have ready access to foreign exchange, a
special account would be established in NBH to which the Bank would make an
initial deposit of up to US$40 million, which would approximately equal
estimated disbursements  for three months.   Payment requests  would  be  made
against full documentation except for contracts valued up to US$3 million
equivalent, where SOEs would be autnorized.   The special account would be
replenished against withdrawal requests at monthly intervals or as appropriate
when the undisbursed balance of the account falls below US$25 million and
until only US$40 million of the loan remains undisbursed.  The closing date
for disbursements will be June 30, 1990.
84.       Implementation.   Impleraentation arrangements set up during the two
industrial  restructuring projects will remain in force.   The Restructuring
Council set up to monitor the implementation of the reform actions will
continue to be responsible for the development and implementation of the
industrial policy reforms. NBH and NPO will be responsible for monitoring and
overal. coordination.
B.        Monitoring and Tranche Release
85.       Monitoring of performance  involves essentially three complementary
activities.   The  first  is  the  monitoring  of  the  implementation  of  the
Government's macroeconomic  program which is an ongoing activity as part of
the Bank's economic dialogue and reporting arrangements to be agreed during
loan negotiations. The second activity is monitoring of the implementation of
agreed industrial policy reform actions on a semiannual basis by the Bank.
Progress in carrying out agreed studies of (a) the investment program
(para. 15), (b) the regulatory framework of convertible currency foreign trade



- 23 -
(para. 53) and (c) the price setting system (para. 58) under agreed terms of
reference ill be reviewed. The third activity will be monitoring of progress
on specific reform actions and meeting macroeconomic targets as a condition
for the release of the second tranche of the loan.
86.       Conditions for Tranche Release.  The release of the second tranche
of the loan will be based on completion, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
of the following actions:
(i)    Adoption of the 1989 Annual Plan and Central State Budget, inc'luding
a public investment plan, which: (a) further reduces the Central
State Budget deficit and results in halting the growth of Hungary's
external debt in convertible currency by the end of 1990 (para. 36);
and,  (b) further reduces the total producer and consumer subsidies
and other financial support from the 1988 plan level of Ft2O4.9
billion by at least 102 (para. 63).
(ii)    Enactment of a Law of Association and  related  legislation which
would permit: (a) State enterprises to convert themselves into joint
stock companies; (b) individuals to hold negotiable shares in joint
stock companies; and (c) individuals to form limited liability and
joint stock companies (para. 44).
(iii)    Adoption  and  commencement  of   implementation  of  programs   to
restructure the ferrous metallurgy and coal mining suosectors
(para. 48-49).
iv)    Enactment of legislation which would eliminate the Countervalue Tax
and integrate the Entrepreneurial Tax as part of the corporate
profit and personal income taxes (para. 61).
(v)    Enactment of legislation which would allow enterprises to determine
independently the level and scope of compensation for individual
workers, within overall ceilings on the wage bill of the enterprise
based on performance (para. 65).
(vi)    Integration of banking services for enterprises and households, with
full  integration  of  the  two  barXing  systems  planned  for  1990
(para. 71).
C.        Coordination with the IMF
87.       The Hungarian authorities reached agreement on most issues regarding
the Standby Arrangement, as mentioned earlier, with the IMF in January 1988.
The appraisal of the proposed loan was underway at about the same time.   Bank
staff assigned to the proposed loan have coordinated their work with that of
IMF staff, and the two institutions have taken mutually consistent positions
on the 1988 plan and on critical areas of the program.  Bank and IMF staff
will continue to work together in providing advice to the Government in
managing the stabilization/reform effort. The staffs of the two institutions
will coordinate actions and recommendations during the period of the loan.



- 24 -
D.        Social Costs
88.       There will be social costs to implementation of the program.  The
most significant will be the appearance of open unemployment, previously
unseen in Hungary. Most of the displaced workers are expected to be able to
find new jobs within a short period.  Unemployment compensation is available
for one year (up to six months at full pay, followed by three months at 75%
pay and another three months at 60% pay).   Retraining programs  are  being
expanded, a nationwide network of more than 400 employment offices has been
set up, and a program of public works has been launched to give temporary
employment  to  workers  while  they  wait  for  other  prospective  jobs.   An
Employment Policy Fund, with an initial allocation of Ftl.2 billion (US$25
million) has been included in the 1988 fiscal budget to finance employment
related central assistance in a coordinated manner.   In addition to covering
the costs for unemployment compensation and the retraining program, the fund
will provide grants to help finance employment-creating investments and
relocation assistance (mainly for housing), and will provide seed capital to
unemployed workers wishing to start their own small businesses.   To date,
instances of labor redundancy as a result of enterprise restructuring have
been readily resolved in most cases by the transfer of workers to other firms,
by retraining within the original firm, or by early retirement.
89.       The condition of pensioners and families with small children also is
a matter of concern, particularly because of the price increases that will
accompany the introduction of the Value Added Tax. A Social Benefits Package
has been introduced in January 1988 to compensate partially for the planned
reduction in real wages, while simultaneously decreasing the budget deficit.
The package aims at shifting from price subsidies to targetted assistance
which should have a net positive resource allocation effect.   The package
includes a 10% increase in pensions (Ftl2.1 billion). To compensate families
partially for the removal of price subsidies on food, children's clothing, and
construction materials used in housing construction, the Social Benefit
Package also includes a 40% increase in family allowances, an increase in the
size and duration of child support payments, and an increase in family grants
for housing purchase estimated to amount to Ftl4 billion.
E.        Risks
90.       The  principal  risk associated with  the loan and the program it
supports is its far reaching nature, and the difficult economic environment in
which it is being implemented. Despite the turnaround in the economy in 1987,
the high level of debt has left Hungary with little potential for further
borrowing.   In this situation,  tight financial discipline will have to be
enforced on the enterprise sector, which has not always acted with sufficient
financial prudence in its investment choices.  The Government would need to
implement its macroeconomic program, which calls for severe austerity after
thirty years of rising consumption, with determination until a supply response
emerges, necessarily  after a  time-lag.   Finally,  Hungary,  being  a highly
trade-dependent country, is subject to adverse external changes.
91.       On  the  other  hand,  there  is a broad consensus  in Hungary that
adjustment in the domestic economy can no longer be postponed by resort to
continued external borrowing, even if it means a decline in living standards



- 25 -
in the short term, to return to a sustainable growth path.  The need for the
proposed  steps has been openly  debated  in  the  media.   Trade  unions  were
consulted before the stabilization program was presented to the Parliament.
The maintenance of the consensus dLring the implementation of the program,
which does change the existing social compact, will be a challenge, but the
risk is reduced by the fact that a new leadership, committed to the reform,
has been put in place.
92.       Finally, Bank support coupled with an agreement with the IMF would
reduce  the  overall  risk,  as  it  would  ease  the  country's  access   to
international financial markets to roll over maturing debt until at least
1990, when Hungary is expected to reach current account balance.  Overall, the
assessment  is  that  while  the  risks   are  considerable,  the  Government's
commitment, the openness of its approach, and the relatively open conditions
of Hungarian society make the risks manageable.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
93.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directers approve
the loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 27, 1988



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
HUNGARY
ROforenco Greuo, 4.wPE)
Qocent      Joeor mid    t"dustr'al
'96o       1973    Estimate       InCOmO        Kt econ
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Total land aroa (tnou so AM)       93.0        93.0        93.0
AgrlcuItural (%. of total)         74 8        73.5        70.9
W  PER CAPIrA (current USS)              *          *       2.020       1.830       '.20
PaPuwtaw AaI  VITAL STATISTICS
Total ocoulation (tnmu)           '0.153     10,436      t0.633
Urbom 000. (% of total)               43         49          55          Go
Populatton growth ratel%).
Total                                         0.3         0.2         2.'         0.7
Urion                                         2.2         1 5         3.6         .5
Life 0xpQct. at 0irtn (yr9)           '0         70          71          66          76
Population projoctions:
Poo. in 2000 (tmou)                                    10.506
stationary ooo. (thou)                                 t2.000
Pooulatton donfoty per Sq kM
of agricultural land                 146         tS3        162         230         534
Por. ago structuro (%):
0-i4 yr$                            23         21          22          36          21
iS-64 yrs                          so          67          s6          59          67
69 and aoovo                        '0         12 13                    0          i2
Crudo aortn roto (por trou)           '3          1s          12         20          13
Crude oeatm rato (per thou)            I          1t2         14          8           9
Total fortiity rate                  1.8        2.0          1.7        3.?         1.8
infant mort. rato (per thou)          39         34          20          s2           9
Child death rate (par trou)            3           2                      4           0
Family olanning:
Acceptors. annual (trou)            ..        149         712
Users (% of iarr'oa woman)         67          ?4
FOOD  FaALrTN A9kD riQITIaN
Inmex of face orroductiof  per
capita (1979-51 a 100)                ..         90          104        106         '02
Per caDita 9u0ply of:
calorlo  (per day)             3.116       3.371       3.544       2.90?       341t?
Protoins (grams oar day)           66          91          94          7S          92
Pop. oor physician (thou)             ..        0.9         0.4         2.4         1.5
Poe. por nurse (thou)               0.3         0.2         0.2         0.7         0.;
Poe. oar hoSeitat oad (thou)          ..        O.1         0.1         0.4         0.1
AeQss to avfo wa2tor
(% of population):  Total           ..         3.
Uroen         ..         6S          84
Rural         .11                    43
Population Growth              Infant Mortality        Primary School Enroilmont
4                           ZN2011                          -    >-O^   G-
to Ifulles                                  -
na  age,ov'.'i                                           I



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
1987 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
HUNGARY
Rofoerorco Groupn (URI)
Recant      Uooor MI Csd   tnusetrial
1996        1973    Estimteo        incomo         mkt ocon.
LABOR FORCE
'otal tabor Forco (tneu)            1.138        5.464        5.227
Fomalo (%)                            38          41           44           34          37
Agriculture  (M%)                     32          23           18           29           7
tucTry  (                            40           44           44          31 3%
Paret'cipOtion rate (%):
Total                                g1           52           49          38           47
ma0o                                  es          62           of          so           60
Formal(                              37           42           42          26           35
Ago OGPondonCy ratio                  0.5          O.5          O.S         0.7          O.5
H4OUSING
Avorago SiO Of MouQofol@t:
Totalt                                             3            3
Uroan                                               3           3
Rural                                              3            3
Pereontage of etwolltgg wstr
eloctricity:
Total                                 ..          94           98
Rural                                 ..          91           97
EDUCAT IO4
Enroalmonrt ratee:
Primary: Total                       IQI          99           90 soo                  102
Maio                      102           99           98         103          102
penalso                    oo          9g            99         101          10t
Soconcary: Total                      ..          63           73           63          90
ato1                     ..           67          73           44           al
Fomalo                   ..           58          73           61          9t
Pl,pil-Teacmar ratio:
Primary                               23           16         1            28          20
Soconcteey                            21          20           ..           19           14
upitls roecning raOO 6 (%)              ..           93          96           a9
IPCWIE. CO4SU4PTIC6, AK9 POVERTY
Erorgy consumot oI  oar Cap.
(kg of oil oquivalor"t)              1.825       2.259        2.a74        1,9f0       4.083
Preermiago of private Inmeom
raco* va  Oy:
mignestt 10% of nouso'olod            ..           ...
-"gnost 20%                           33          34           32Ja
Louast 20%                            10          10           11 8
L0foiat 40%                           25          29           26 a
Est. aOboluto oovorty iecome
level (US$ par capita):
Q_.ral                                .            ..                        ..
Est. ooo. oblOouw    oluto
Povoety Income level (%)
Rural
0assoinger cars/triou poo.            10.0        39.1        07.2        SO.4        323.7
Nowsoaoor cirCulatIon
(por tnousgand ooDulatlnl)          178.2        225.7        249.8        80.0        300.0
:ECS9 Augtt i957
Not avale-lb   "*te tost rosoetti BOIImBIO of Po"141I* and GtMP Ot tBo'B ate Igi *0 ieIGu eothalmte A."
Groms avoaresdoo atB 0"agt.4n ,Oeptea Ce,v"e cevo.Bg, isBasd a*n data OveBl*jistI Bito ekes Aolftdotm UA'OBO gt"0B  fot@tooe
*109 010fGl to say year ootbowo IO *03 BI. 1913 botwoi 1970s IoME 106 0*10 'oU tuout oOtiuAto ooofi l an3^eiE Iwo
B i071



28 -
ANNEX I
Definitions of Social Indicators                       e 3 of 4
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Total teruhlzt rate- A%erage number of children that
vary among countines or within one country over   would be born aJlve to a woman dunng her lifetime.
time. For instance. different countnes define "urban    if during her childbearing sears she were to bear
Area or -safe water" in different ways. For more    children at each  ge in Accordance with pre%ailing
detailed definitions. see the tec'hnical notes to the  age-specific fertilitv rates.
World Development Indicators.                     Infant 'ugedfI-l, mortality rate - Number of infants
per thousand itve births. in a gven year. who die
AREA (thousand square kilometers)                 before reaching one year of age.
Total. Total surface area compnsing land area And  ClitId laged 1-4: mortalit' ratu  - Number of deaths
inland waters.                                    of children. aged 1-4. per thousand children in the
.4rtwultutal 'percentage of total, - Estimate of agn-    same age group. in a given vear.
cultural area used for crops. pastures. market and  FamiY planning  utce'ptors. thousands, - Annual
kitchen prdens or lying fallow. as a percentage of    number of acceptors of birth-control measures re-
total.                                            ceived under the auspices of a national family plan.
ning program.
GNP PER CAPITA (USS) - 1986 GNP per capita        Famd l planntng. users 'percentage of married stom-
estimates at current market pnces. calculated by the  enl X Percentage of mamed women of child-bearing
conversion method used for the World Bank .4tlas.  age who are practicing. or whose husbands are
practicing. any form of contraception. Child-bearing
POPt;LATION AND VITAL STATITICS                   age is generally IS to 44. although for some coun-
Total population - mid-year (millions). 1986 data.  tries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
.'rhan population (percentage ot total, - Difrerent    groups.
countnes follow different definitions of urban pop-
ulation which may affect comparability of data    FOOD. HEALTH AND INUTRITION
4mong countries.                                  Index offood production per capita ( 1979 - 81 - 100)
A'pulaton grouwth rate ipercent) - total and urban -    - Index of per capita annual production of all food
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    commodities. Production excludes animal feed and
tions.                                            seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pn-
Liti. expectancY at birth t'rearsi - Number of years a  mary commodities I for exampl. suprcane instead
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of    of sugar) which are edible and which contain nu-
mortality at the time of its birth were to stay the    tnents (for example. tea and coffee are excluded).
same throughout its life.                         They include nuts. fruits. pulses. cereals. vegetables.
Population projections                            oil seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
Population mn 2000 - Projections of population    lhvestock products. Aggregate production of each
given total population by age and sex. fertility and  countrv is based on national average producer pnce
the demographic parameters of mortality rates. and  weight,.
migration in the base year 1980.                  Per capitasup7,v of calories Computed from energy
Stationary population - Projected population level    equivalent of net food supplies available in a coun-
when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.. the    try. per capita, per day. Available supplies compnse
birth rat is constant and is equal to the death rate.    domestic production. imports less exports. and
the age structure is stable. and the growth rate is    changes in stock. Net supplies exclude animal feed.
zero.                                             seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in food
Population density. agricultural land - Population per    processing. and losses in distnbution.
square kilometer (100 hectares) of agricultural area.  Per capita supply at protein  grams per dayi - Protein
Population age structure 'percent / - Children 0-14  content of per canica net supply ot food per day. Net
years. working age group 15-64 years. and people of    supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
65 years and over as percentages of population.   all countnes. established by United States Depart.
Crude birth rate- Annual live births per ti ousand  ment of Agriculture. provide for minimum allow-
population.                                       ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
Crude death rate - Annual deaths per thousand     grams of animal or pulse protein.
population.                                        Pbpulation per physician - Population divided by the



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
number of practicing physicans qualified from a    and rural- Conventional dwellings with electricity In
medical school at university level.              living quarters. as a percentage of all dwellings.
Population per nin peson- Population divided by
the number of practcing graduate nurses. aistant    EDUCATION
nurses, practical nurses and numng auxilianes.   Enrollment rates
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by  Przwari school enrollment- total. male andfemale
the number of hospital beds available in public and  - Gross enrollment of all ages at pnmarv level as a
pnvate. general and specialized hospitals. and reha-    percentage of school-age children as defined by each
bilication centers. Hospitals are establishments per-    country. and reported to Unexo. While many coun-
manently staffed by at least one physician.      tcres consider primary school age to be 6-1 1 years.
Access to safe water (percentage of population} -    othes use different age groups. For some countnes
total. urban. and mral - People (total. urban. and  with universal education. gross enrollment may ex-
rural) with reasonable access to safe water supply    ceed 100 percent since some pupils are younger
(includes treated surface waters or untreated but    or older than the country's own standard pnmary
uncontaminated water such as that from sprngs.    school age.
sanitary wells. and protected boreholesl. In an urban  Secondary school nrollmnt - total. male andfem.
area this may be a public fountain or standpost    ale  Computed in a similar manner. but including
located not more than 200 meters away. In rural    pupils enrolled in vocational. or teacher tramining
areas this imr"ies that members of the household do  secondary schools. The age group is usually 12 to 17.
not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - T otal
fetching water.                                  students enrolied in school divided by the total
number of teachen.
LABOR FORCE                                        Percentage puils reachig gade six - The percent.
Total labor force (millionsj - Economically active.    age of children starting prinmary school. that contin-
including armed forces and unemployed but exciud-    ue until gade six.
ing houswives and students.
Femae (percent) - Female labor force as a percent-    INCOME, CONSUMPTION, AND POVERTY
age of total labor force.                        Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil
Agriulture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    eqiwvlent - Annual conswnption of commercial
forestry. hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    primary enery (coal lignte, petroleum. natural gas.
labor force.                                     and hydro, nuclear and gothemal electricity).
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc.    Incomw distribution - Income (both in cash and kind)
tion. manufacturing and electarity. water and gas as    accnuing to percentile groups of households ranked
a percentape of total labor force.               by total household income.
Participation rate (percent) . total. male. andfemae  Passnger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
- Participation rates are the paentage of population  motor can seating fewer than eight persons.
of all ages in the labor force. These are based on ILO  Newspapr circulation (per thosand population-
data on the age-sex structure of the population.  Average circulation of a 'daily, general interest
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under IS,    newspaper." defined as a news periodical published
and 65 and over, to the working age population (ape    at least four times a week.
5-64).                                           Estimated absolute poverty income level  USS per
capita) - urban and rural- Absolute poverty income
HOUSING                                          level is that below which a minimal nutitionally
Average sit of hoehold (persons per household) -    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
total, urban, and ruwal A household consists of a    are not affordable.
group of individuals who share living quarters and  Estimated population below absolute poverty income
main meals.                                      lvel  percent) - Pervzntage of urban and rural pop-
Percentage of dwellings with electrcn s. total, urban.    ulations who live in "absolute poverty."



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
6Et EMIWC     IC IkICAtORS
._ _-._-.--------Proiected.--.------'-------------- -.--
1982    1983    194       1785     IIt  19D7/p    lt8        1989    10      1991     199?    199       194    1995
60P 6ro th Rate                                           2.8n     o.n     2.tl   -o.n       1.5t    i.4%      I. 4    I.7t    2.n        .i s.2      3.37      3.n         i.5 s.5
6UP 6roth Rate                                            t.n1   -0.1      2.61    -0. n     1.51     3.42    1.61     1.a1    2.1       3.12    3.3      3.41     3.5      1.51
609rapith 6ro*th Rate                                     1.81   -0.52      I.6t    -0.7t    0.lt    3.t      l.t2     I.U      2.n      3.11     3.31    3.41     3.52     3.51
Private tConsoaptin/Capita Iroath Rate                    1.31    0.51     1.22     1.41     2.02    2.81   -2.31      1.01    2.11      3.01    3.31    3.41      3.42    3.52
Total 008 lin fuil. USti I/                              7715    8250    88rA    11760   15086    17739   11878   '8250   18369    1853    18483   18704   18920   19075
I8IRD8OD 1/                                              O.02     o.ot    0.02      2.9t    3.52     4.21    6.62      8.U%    10.t   12.6U    (3.7t   I(.5       15.02    15.51
D00/165 1/                                              120.02   132.61   143.12   191.41  227.n   246.92   237.01  23.81   21(.62   206.11   196.62   10.51   180.61  172.52
P0at8GO  1/                                              33.32    39.32    43.42    57.0t   63.51    t8.01   65.71    t3.81    60.52    56.6    53.4    50.51   47.72    44.92
Debt Srvire (to  ill. USS) 13/                           1995     190    2580    3155    375    3416    3107    294            3210    3705    4066    4258    4140    4438
Debt Swevic*/IS I/ 2/131                                 31.01    32.01   41.81    51.32   56.41   47.51   41.22    37.02    38.01    41.61    43.22    42.91    39.51   40.11
Debt Service 6W  1/ /                                     8.62     9.5t   12.n    15.3t    5.7n    13.12t   (1.42   1O.3    1O.t    11.41   1i.n    11.51   1o.41    10.5t
IIRD Det Service/Debt Sevtce 1/ 3/                        0.01    0.0     0.02     0.1n     1.11    2.22     3.82    6.3       8.7n    9.Ot    9.4t    9.n 8     I.1t   11.42
Gross Investanta/6P                                      28.52    26.52    25.72   25.02    26.n    26.82    26.8    26.31   26.52    26.82    26.n1   27.1t   2.It   27.22
Doetsc SavianIS'If                                       27.72    26.n    26.71    24.n    22.92    23.n    26.52    26.8    27.22    27.22    27.32    27.42   27.42    27.52
11ational Saviaqs'49                                     274.2    26.62    27.11    24.7n    21.5S    24.6U    26.11    26.61   27.31    27.4t   27.81   27.52 28.02   28.3t
Rarpolal aitsonal Zavaop Rate                            38.0t   17.41    21.81   -17.31   -38.n9   49.91   35.61    30.81    34.02   29.22    32.52    27.4n    30.02    31.41
Public Ioveatnt/SDP 41                                   25.22    22.92    22.0t   21.22    21.51   22.22    22.22    21.81    21.92    21.9t   22.81    21.n    2t.2    21.52
Household Savingo/SP                                      3.52    4.02     4.3      4.31    4.62     3.7%    3.22      3.52    4.11    4.72      5.22     5. 6     5.92    6.11
Ratio nof Pnblic/ibuehold Savtns 41                       6.8      5.7     5.3      4.7      3.7     5.7      7.2      6.6      5.7     4.8      4.3      4.0      3.8      3.6
Governent RimenolGPt 5t                                  63.52   65.22    65,      64.91    71.32    65.92    4.2      4.02t   61.7n    6.42    61.O0    6O.72   6O.32.   6o.o
6overfnest ExpendituroelW  5/                            67.52    68.91   66.42    67.U    74.42    68.21   64.21   63.12   6O.92    60.61   60.21   59.92    59.Ul   59.32
Deficit 1-) or Surplus (+ 5                              -4.01   -3a.6    -0.81    -2.n1   -3.12   -2.n       0.1t    0.81      0.1      0        .71     o.8      o.m      o.7
Export Voloe Grokth Rate                                  7.2     9.62     5.91   -0.81   -0.81    3.52    3.92        2.92    2.82      2.81    3.12     3.11    S.3t    3.12
Ruble                                                   3.31    7.71     7.02     8.31    -0.11    2.52     2.01     0.41    0.52      1.62    2.52     2.5t    2.51      2.52
Nooroble                                               10.61    10.82     4.72   -6.61   -3.82      5.0      5.     5.02     4.62     3.72    3.62     3.52     3.51     3.52
Exports/60P                                              37.92    40.22    41.12   42.22   39.61   37.n    37.42   38.02    38.11   38.02    38.01    37.82    37.     U17.61
lepart Voluav 6rovthb Rate                                0.6     5.62     1.11     1.82     1.57    4.02   -1.61      1.61    2.42     3.32    3.52      3. 3     3.3S    1.31
Rubl1                                                   2.81     1.St   -O.52    -o.42     3.n      3.7n    3.82     2.2      3.41     3.5.    3.0      i.61     3.0o     3.0t
Konruble                                               -2.32     6.41    0.42    2.U       0.82     2.62   -6. Ot    1.0      1.51     3.22    3.5      3.52     3.52     3.52
laports/60P                                              37.11   38.3n    37.9n    40.1t   41.12   38.42   35.61   35.72   35.62 35.2    3S81    35.72   35.72    35.63
Current kIcont lit sil. USt1                             -313      37      270      -56   -1286    -573    -(66         89      229     209      290      312      335     438
of  hich, Convertible Currency                          -92     27'      329    -457   -1419    -847    -504    -252         -52        38      78       87      122      191
Cov. Currency Current kcount/lOP                         -0.41     1.42    1.62   -2.21   -6.02   -3.22   -1.9    -o.91   -0.1t    0.11    0.21           0.22     0.32    0.51
p Preliinary
Sources: Central Statistical 0ffIco, National lank of unary,  ational Plenaing Office,
Goveroment Fivnacial Statistics (varios issusl, nd lkrld Oak staff itiitss.
1/ Coovertable currency.
2/ Exports of goods and wrvice  are adjasthd to inclide rstble  spor  correspondimg to ruble aipwrts
of energy and raw materials, and to  suclde estisted re-aports.
3/ taurtatatian includes prepayet of eedaue- end lon-tare debt. The ainuts are U457 million to ISS,
s523 millio  an 1986, and approximately $420 allion t 1987. Kta further prepayets ae projected.
If prepymsnts are eoclude, the Debt Srvice ltit tni thou  tears becom  43.9, 48.5t, and 42.42.
4/ Public sectov includa the mOCilst enterprise sector.
5/ Data on the Public Sector refer to the C lte Indated Central and Local Sowrsats.   ference  in the test
ire to the Central Boverseant in the State Bu40t format.



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTNENT LOAN
MAW  OF P69837  1i ct9f16  UIW
(11S  llstims it cvrmut prncsl
- ----PrjKctod------ --~- -  ~---------~ - ---
2m2       93      1984     2935     196   19737p        M988    1989     IM0       99      1992      1993     1994      9
*         -     _4    _4              ... . .    .,,.  ...                 . ...           *.*.        .      .
A. Expots of S" I t5 S516                                            514      529      48        453      3692     5997     6454     6929      73       782      O0        8        425
1. brehandta  (FOB)                                       81       484?     4965     4475     4136  u078    539          5803      6243      65      170       52        014    8o5r
2. If4ct@r Srvinc                                          29       298      332      3        416      614       U18     651        8      722      n59       798      840      8
8. Isports of Scad  & IF5                                   4447     427      4053     4547     510       5629     5447     50       5l    62          64        1131     7622     8145
1. Nerchdwdnae 1708)                                     4110      3970  1729        41BO44676         5075      474      5013     5212     5           5      625      6669     7107
2.  oma-Factor Srvic                                       37       308      324      367      45       554        72      617      669      no       799         4      9       1037
C. RnQus     Sleac                                           722      867     1244      2       -577        S3      551      824     108      1142    1137       118      1231     1276
O. Net Factor I..                                           -97      -62      -744     -25    -429       -92      -1072    -109     -1104    -2131    -1128    -138    -1150    -1124
1. Factor gcipts                                           125      112      153      220      256      206      224       226      Va       222      229      241       255      269
2. Factor P    hwte                                       1101      n        8S9      94      1085    J110       1296     1321     133      1353     1357      137      1405     139I
E. et Carrat Traonsas                                        2t2       92    -171       -20      -13        14       17       20       23       27       31        36       41      4k
1. Carrat  i te                                           550       492      449      443      644      722      758       795      833       72      912      953      995      1039
2. Carrat Paynts                                           388      400      620      463      t57      708       741      m        81o      o4       Got       917     9n4       99
F. Cwrrat kccout blance                                      -92      297      329    -457    -I419    -847        -504     -252      -32        8        78       87      122     I"
s. Long-Tor Capital toflo                                    174       t0      964     199      1152      82        229      m        119      -27      10        222      215      155
1.  t LT Los"                                              174       60      644    I90       1152      822       13       372      119        7      140      222       215      155
a. Disaour    ts                                         1068     1276     2645     4119     SS02     3108      1950     2000     2000     2325     2850      3100     2950    ro00
i.  epayeofts                                            804      1216     1681     2210     2t50     228       1811     1628     1.2      2352     2710      2878     2735    3045
M. total other itas (at)                                   -1236        9     -9       -551      121   -I225       -200     -I10     -170     -170     -170      -I70     -10     -170
I. Rwt Sht-Twa Coital                                    -1044      154    -864      -267      432   -1156      -150     -120      -120     -120     -120     -120     -120     -120
2. Capital Flm  EI                                      -192       -5      -125     -284     -311      -97       -50      -50      -50      -50      -5       -50       -50     -50
1. Chapn to Mt bR sv                                      -1154      446       304      90      -246    -1278     -566      -49       -82     -158       49      138      247      183
1. Mat Credit fOro tke 11                                  237      336      38        la       68     -300        5       In       268      -30     -300     -300     -300     -120
2. Other Rewre OhM"                                     -1391       110      -76     M88      -20      -978     -571     -228      -350     -108      349      435      47       103
Sham of SOP
1. Reorce Balnce                                          3.11      4.21     6.1      1.41    -2.41     0.2n     2.02     2.91      3.51     3.51     3.41     3.21     3.1      3.01
2. Total latest Payuent                                   4.8       32       4.41     4.u      4.62     4.32     4.81     4.6       4.41     4.21     3.92     3.72     3.51     3.n
3. Cerat   at Balance                                    -0.41      1.42     1.62    -9 a2   -6.0e    -3.22    -1.92    -0.92    -9.12       0.12     0.2a     0.2      0.32     0.51
4. LT Capital bnfo                                         4.6     6tt    1 3.02    20.01    16.02    21.92      7.22     7.0       6.62    .7.2t     8.21     8.42     7.41     7.57
. bt Credit fro  the 1iF                                   1.01     1.61     1.91     0.12     0.32    -1.22     0.01     0.        0.92    -o.2a   -4.9n    -0.6    -0.81    -o0.n
Mard   Itn:i
SOP (laltian  of arreat U5$)                              23159    21005    20345    20625    2357    26085    21227    28603    30370   323          341t7    37o42     958    4246l
Fuaidg  Erch&W  RBwe  (10S3 call.)
1. tat'l. Rsrv                                            767     1222      1805     2792     2088     1953     1387     1338      2255     1097     1146     1284     2451     1634
2.6014                                                    4          40      71       751      m1       sa       525      525      5         525      525      52S      525      525
S3  srs k  rsninCl. BoId                                  1233     162      255      3543     3639     2478     1912     286       1780     1622     2671     280      1976    :159
Br. Rrny   is Naths Iports                                   3.3      5.2      7.6      9.4      8.5      5.3      4.2      4.0       3.6      3.1      3.0      3.0      3.1      3.2
Eznqe Riata
1. Ios. off. I-Rate                                        36.6    42.7    48.0    50.1    45.8    47.0    52.3    55.5             57.4     58.2     58.5     5.8    59.0    59.3
2. R"l (i4. i-ate 8       9n80 I/                          78.7     84.7      84.0     85.6    101.2    121.2   135.0   143.2    148.1    150.2   ISI.0   2S5.7    152.4   153.l
P Preltiaarv
Sorcnl Cutra  Statistical Office, btirlel Btk of Reoery, ktional Plaanani  014ico ed   1ld BNO  staff astoastas.
I/  tie  idicate  a Eprciatia.



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Status of Bank Group Operations in Hungary
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
(As of March 31, 1988)
US$ Million
Loan  Fiscal                                                 (Less Cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower           Purpose                      Loan   Undisbursed
One loan and six B-loans loans fully disbursed         266.5         -
2317  1983     HPR  /b  Industrial Energy Conservation    109.0            20.3
2397  1984     NBH  /c  Indus. Exports & Restructuring    110.0            16.2
2398  1984     OKGT /d  Petroleum                             90.0          7.8
2510  1985     NBH       Integrated Livestock                 80.0         60.5
2511  1985     NBH       Fine Chemicals                       73.0         25.9
2557  1985     HPR       Transport (Rail/Road)                75.0         27.2
2697  1986     HPR       Power                                64.0         58.5
2700  1986     NBH       Industrial Restructuring            100.0         50.0
2709  1986     NBH       Industrial Energy Conservation II  25.0           18.9
2738  1987     NBH       Crop Production Improvement         100.0        43.6
2834  1987     NBH       Industrial Restructuring II         150.0         99.8
2847  1987     NBH       Telecommunications                   70.0        63.4
Total                            1,312.5
Of which Repaid                    28.3
Total Now Held by the Bank       1,284.2
Total Undisbursed                               492.1
/a The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Execative Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Hungarian People's Republic.
/c National Bank of Hungary.
/d National Oil and Gas Trust.
2673G



- 33 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1988)
Fiscal                                   Type of              US$ Million
Year         Obligor                    Business        Loan    Equity    Total
1988  Salgotarjan Glass Wool      Glasswool              3.44       1.39     4.83
1987  UNIC Bank                   Banking                -          3.21     3.21
1987  Huni Fermentation Limited  Lysine Manufacturing  8.55         2.70    11.25
Total Gross Commitments                11.99       7.30    19.29
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                -          -        -
Total Commitments now held by IFC      11.99       7.30    19.29
Total Undisbursed                      11.29       0.33    11.62
2673G



34
ANNEX 5
HUNGARY
Macro-EconomiC Prooram  198a-1990
Policy area/Actions
Pre Board Presentations            Mid 1988 - end 1988                       1989                           1990
1. FIscal lTeficitt
Adopt 1988 Central State         Formul-ate 1989 Central State      Implement 1990 State budget  Implement 1989 State
Budget with deficit not           budget to further reduce           in accordance with agreed    budget in accordance with
exceeding FT10.4 billion.        budget deficit in order to         targets. Formulate 1990        agreed targets.
reduce current account            Central State budget to
deficit and reach current         further reduce budget
account balance in 1990.          deficit in order to reduce
current account deficit and
achieve near balance in
the current account in 1990.
2. Current Account Deficit
Adopt demand management          Develop current account            Develop current account        Achieve near balance in
measures to limit current         deficit target consistent         deficit target consistent    the current Account
account deficit in               with budget deficit.               with budget deficit. Adopt   balance in convertible
convertible currencies to                                           demand management measures   currencies.
$500 million                                                        to limit current account
deficit to target.
3. Ex_anston of Credit
Adopt measures to restrict       Oevelop credit expansion           Continue to implement          Continue to implement
expansion of credit of           target consistent with the         monetary program con           monetary program con
monetary institutions to the    budget deficit, subsidy              sistent with maintenance      sistent with maintenance
State and the State              reduction program and              of macroeconomic               of macroeconomic
Development Institute            mainterince of macro-              equilibrium.                   equilibrium.
to Ft390.6 billion.              economic equilibrium.
4. Household Savinos
Implement flexible interest      Review household interest          Implement interest rate        Implement interest rate
rate polic) to stimulate         rates in light of                  changes as nec  sary.          changes as necessary.
savings and prevent              developments in the savings        Review household interest    Review household
disintermediation.               rate in 1988. For wilate           rates in light of              interest rates in light
Raise interest rates              interest rate changes             developments in the savings  of developments in the
on long term savings to          necessary.                         rate in 1989. Formulate        savings rate in 1990.
positive levels in real                                             interest rate changes          Formulate interest rate
terms.                                                              as necessary.                  changes as necessary.
S. Exchanae Rate Policy
Continue active exchange rate policy to promote external equilibrium, curb domestic demand. and increase relative
profitability of convertible currency exports to promote such exports.
6. Public Investment Prooram
Reduce       State               Peview 1989-9V public              Implement revised public investment plan.
investm,.   by 15X from plan    investment to plan to tmprove
1987 level. Reduce financial    efficiency of investment.
support from SDI for             Assess the role and scope of
preferred activities of          SDI to improve its efficiency
enterprises from Ftl6.4           and its integration into the
billion to FtlS.4 billion in    financial system.
1988.
061Tf



- 35 -
ANNEX 6
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUTrMENT LOAN
Letter of Sector Development Policies
Budapest, Dated,
May 26, 1983.
Mr. Barber B. Conable,
President,
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable,
I am writing this letter in reference to the proposed Industrial
Sector Adjustment Loan. This letter and its attachment update the Hungarian
Government's Letters of Intent on the Development of Economic Conditions
Concerning Industrial Restructuring in Hungary of May 6, 1986, and May 8, 1987
submitted in connection with the First and Second Industrial Restructuring
Projects, respectively.
Background
As you are aware, Hungary has a highly trade dependent economy with
over  40  percent  of  GDP  being  internationally  traded.   Such  high  trade
dependence requires continuous increases in the efficiency and international
competitiveness of Hungary's industry, especially as over half of our trade is
with convertible currency markets. Accordingly, it has been the Government's
endeavour to reform the economy and to make it more efficient and
internationally competitive.  The Government is continuously taking steps to
enlarge the role of market forces in the economy, introduce entrepreneurial
attitudes in enterprises, and expand the role of market-based instruments for
macro-economic  management.   The Government  has  already  taken  a number of
actions to advance the reform supported by the two World Bank-financed
Industrial Restructuring Projects. These include among others: (i) reform of
the enterprise management system in 1985; (ii) enactment of a bankruptcy law
in 1986; (iii) the liberalization of international trading activity, following
the removal of quantitative import restrictions in 1984; (iv) introduction of
a two-tier competitive banking system in 1987; and (v) a comprehensive tax
reform, comprising the introduction of a personal income tax and a value added
tax from January 1, 1988.
The supply response to these actions is beginning to emerge, but has
not met our expectations, partly because of external factors, and also because
the full range of reform measures has not yet been introduced. In addition,
during the last two years, the macroeconomic environment created more domestic



- 36 -
demand than anticipated, reducing incentives for enterprises to increase
efficiency and compete more effectively in export markets.  Even when all the
reform elements are introduced, it will take considerable time fo, the
structural change in the economy to produce the changes in attitudes and
behavior necessary for the full impact to be felt.
After a particularly disappointing performance in 1985-86, the
economy continued to deteriorate at the beginning of 1987.   The Government
therefore took corrective measures to reduce the budget deficit by reducing
subsidies and increasing administered prices of some commodities.  The Forint
was devalued by 5% in November 1987 in addition to a devaluation of 8% in
March 1987.  The budget deficit was reduced from Ft46.9  billion in 1986 to
Ft34.8 billion, and the current account deficit in convertible currency
decreased from US$1.4 billion in 1986 to US$846 million in 1987. At the same
time, there was evidence of the initial emergence of a supply response to the
policy measures introduced  in 1985-87.   In 1987,  industrial growth reached
3.7%, and the volume of nonruble exports rose by 5%. Exports to the highly
competitive western markets grew much faster (12%). In 1987, GDP grew by 3.4%.
The economy achieved a partial turnaround in 1987, establishing that
the design of the reform program remains fundamentally sound, and will produce
the desired results if implemented consistently and forcefully within a
sufficiently tight macroeconomic environment.
The Government's Medium Term Program
The Government is aware that the recovery has to be strengthened and
sustained.  Accordingly, we have prepared a three year (1988-90) program of
economic stabilization and structural reform, which incorporates the ongoing
industrial sector policy reform program.   The overriding  objective  of  the
program is initially to restrain, and then to halt the growth of external debt
by the end of 1990 by progressively reducing the convertible currency current
account deficit. Through the program, we expect to restore sustainable growth
of the economy allowing long term improvement in the living standards of the
people.  The program promotes structural change through accelerated systemic
reforms, along with stabilization, to raise productivity and international
competitiveness.
The Government intends to implement the program in a consistent
manner over the 1988-90 period. The targets for 1988 are outlined below.
The current account deficit in convertible currencies will not be
allowed  to exceed  US$500  million.   The  targeted reduction in the current
account deficit will be achieved by implementing a restrictive demand
management policy, including a reduction in the budget deficit and tight
credit policy; an active exchange rate policy; and measures to enhance supply,
especially exports.
The budget deficit will not be allowed to exceed FtlO.4 billion.
The reduction in the deficit will occur, despite a lower overall tax burden in



- 37 -
relation to GDP, largely through a substantial reduction in producer and
consumer subsidies.  Household consumption will be reduced by 2-2.5% in real
terms through a 9-10% reduction in real wages.
Credit  of  monetary  institutions  to  the  State  budget  and  the
refinancing of the State Development Institute will together be limited to
Ft390.6 billion.  Credit expansion will be restrained through higher interest
rates and lower limits on the refinancing of commercial banks by the National
Bank of  Hungary.   Besides  the  increase  in  interest  rates  on  short-term
refinancing credits from 11% to 16% at the beginning of the year, the interest
rate on installment credit, which was raised by three percentage points in
November, were raised further by one percentage point to reach 14% by
April 30, 1988. Use of such credit has been restricted and interest rates on
personal loans have been raised by an additional two percentage points to
15-17%.  Interest charges on nonpreferential bank loans for housing have also
been raised to 12-15%.
Further significant measures to stimulate household savings and to
prevent disintermediation have been decided.  Interest rates on term deposits
of households will be raised to 13.5-15% from June 1, 1988. Interest rates on
long term savings notes will also be raised to 14.0-16.5% from the same date.
With  these  increases,  interest  rates  on  long  term household  savings  are
expected to be positive in  real  terms.   The Government  will  continue  to
monitor household savings and take measures to maintain the attractiveness of
savings instruments if necessary to generate the required volume of savings.
Net domestic assets of monetary institutions will not be allowed to increase
beyond Ftl,284.8 billion.
We will continue to pursue an active exchange rate policy to promote
external equilibrium. The cumulative devaluation of the forint by 25% between
1986-1987 has had some impact in promoting exports and reducing the trade
deficit.  The stabilization program should provide a significant incentive to
increase exports by curbing domestic demand. We will continue to take actions
to increase the relative profitability of exports to convertible currency
markets, and continue to provide incentives to stimulate exports.   External
borrowings  in  1988  will  be  limited  to  ensure  that  the  total  external
liabilities  in  convertible  currencies  will  not  exceed  US$16  billion,
(excluding net purchases from IMF), including short-term liabilities of no
more than US$2.3 billion during 1988.
Over  the  past  3  years,  we  have  attempted  to  improve  the
effectiveness of the investment program by enco::raging a shift of investment
resources  out  of  energy  and  basic  materials  into  the  manufacturing
subsectors.   Tight resource constraints anticipated during the program period
have led us to intensify this effort. As a result of an intensive review of
Plan priorities undertaken last year, expenditures on large State investments
will be reduced by 15% in 1988. In 1988, no new large central projects will be
started, and resources will be concentrated on completing ongoing projects.



- 38 -
We intend to reduce investment in coal mining, electric energy and metallurgy,
and  increase  investment  in manufacturing  industry.   Investments  by  Local
Councils, which had exceeded planned levels in recent years, will be reduced
by at least 20% to a level that permits them to provide for essential health
and education investments.  Equity allocations (a form of low-cost credit) and
other forms of financial support from the State Development Institute (SDI)
for preferred investment activities of enterprises will be reduced from Ftl6.4
billion in 1987 to Ftl5.4 billion in 1988.  Most of the structural measures
outlined below, combined with tight monetary policy, will increase enterprise
financial discipline and improve the quality of enterprise investment, which
forms the largest single share of socialist sector investment (62%) as well as
of  investment  in industry  (78%).  We are also taking steps  to facilitate
investment financing for the rapidly growing small business sector, which we
expect will expand vigorously following the implementation of the new Law of
Association  in January  1989.   Finally,  before  the end  of  1988,  we  will
undertake a further review of the investment plans for 1989-90 in an effort to
ensure the greatest possible returns from the scarce resources available. We
will also assess the role and size of the SDI to determine the scope for
improving its efficiency and its integration into the financial system.
The reduction in household real incomes which the program implies
will  have  social  costs.   The  Government  has  taken  steps  to protect  the
vulnerable sections of the society.  The budget for 1988  includes a Ft26.1
billion social benefits package containing increases in pensions and family
allowances to compensate partially for the removal of subsidies on food,
children's clothing, and construction materials used in housing. Increases in
the size and duration of child support payments, and an increase in family
grants for housing purchase are also included. Unemployment compensation and
retraining opportunities are being expanded for those who might be temporarily
displaced as a result of the closing down of inefficient productive
activities. Measures to promote growth of new small businesses will provide
increased  opportunities  to  such  workers.   An  Employment  Fund  has  been
established with an initial allocation of Ftl.2 billion to finance and
coordinate employment-related assistance. These additional programs have been
funded out of savings in Government expenditure, while reducing the budget
deficit at the same time.
We will monitor the performance of the economy closely, and if it
appears that the actions already taken are inadequate to reach the targets,
the Government will undertake additional measures promptly.
The Government also reached agreement with the IMF on a Standby
Arrangement for SDR265 million to support the implementation of the economic
stabilization and structrual reform program.
Structural Reforms
We are strongly committed to accelerate systemic reform and promote
the needed structural changes in the economy. While implementation of reforms
and achievement of structural change is difficult at any time, it is more so



- 39 -
during  a  stabilization  period.   The  high  level  of  Hungary's  convertible
currency debt and the high proportion of debt service to exports limits the
room for resorting to further commercial borrowing in support of the reform
program.   Our problem is further compounded by the uncertain prospects for
world economic growth and trade.  We are nevertheless determined to press
ahead with the policy reform program, as we firmly believe it is the only way
to achieve sustainable growth and the longer-term goal of improved living
standards.
Industry is the single largest sector in the Hungarian economy,
contributing about a third of GDP, employment and gross domestic fixed
investment.   It  accounts  for  75-802  of  the  total  imports  and  exports.
Industrial sector policy reform is therefore the centerpiece of our economic
reform.   In  1985,  the  Government  undertook,  jointly  with  the  Bank,  an
extensive analysis of the structure, performance, constraints and potential of
the industrial sector and of the sector policy and institutional framework.
The principal constraints on improved industrial performance were identified
as the lack of financial discipline and weak autonomy of enterprises, the lack
of domestic and international competition, and the low mobility of resources.
Drawing upon this analysis, the Government launched a five-year
industrial sector restructuring program in 1985 to address these constraints.
The program aims at increasing reliance on competitive market mechanisms and
signals in order to promote efficiency, innovation, and financial discipline
at the enterprise level.   The program consists of reform actions covering
eleven policy areas, which are central to the objectives of the reform. These
areas are: entry of enterprises; liquidation and restructuring of inefficient
enterprises;  international  trade;  pricing;  taxation  and  subsidies;  wage
differentiation and worker mobility; capital markets; the banking system; the
enterprise management system; direct foreign investment; and technology
development. As mentioned above, between 1985-87 we have taken a number of
significant actions in support of the program, fully in line with our earlier
agreements.   The policy actions the Government is committed to take during
1988-90 in respect of the eleven policy areas are elaborated in the following
paragraphs.   A  policy matrix  is annexed  indicating  the  specific  actions
recently taken and those planned to be taken. We recognize the importance of
providing a stable environment for enterprise decision-making as quickly as
possible.  We will therefore accelerate the implementation of the program so
that all major systemic changes are implemented during 1988-89.
1. Entry of Enterprises
Increase in competition is one of the most important facets of the
reform.  The Government will therefore liberalize regulations  to facilitate
the establishment of different forms of economic associations and conversion
to other forms.



- 40 -
We  are  currently  drafting  legislation  permitting:    (i)  State
enterprises to convert themselves into joint-stock companies, (ii) individuals
to  own  negotiable  and  transferable   shares   in  joint-stock  companies,
(iii) individuals   to  form  limited  liability  companies  and  joint-stock
companies. The draft legislation will be approved by the Council of Ministers
in mid-1988, and the Law of Association introduced in Parliament in its autumn
session. Following Parliament's approval, the legislation will be implemented
from January 1, 1989.
The  Government  will  continue  to  encourage  the  small  scale,
essentially private,  sector which has proved  to be  dynamic.   The maximum
number of employees permitted in private businesses has been doubled from 15
to 30.   Amendments  have  been made  to the  current  legislation  to  permit
individuals  to  form  limited  liability  associations  together  with  legal
entities.
We have already designed incentives for enterprises to set up
subsidiaries or autonomous profit centers, and to promote small and medium
enterprises.  During the last year 24 new enterprises have been established by
breaking up  large  State  enterprises.   We expect this process to continue
during 1988-90.
2. Liquidation and Restructuring of Inefficient Enterprises.
The Government has recognized the critical importance of tightening
financial discipline among enterprises to bring about greater efficiency and
market  orientation.   Accordingly,  bankruptcy  legislation  was  given  high
priority  and  enacted  in  1986.   The  legislation  has  generally  deterred
companies from taking imprudent financial decisions, though the number of
actual liquidations of State enterprises has been limited.  The Government
will implement the bankruptcy legislation more forcefully in 1988.   It has
been decided  that  the State  itself will  initiate  liquidation proceedings
against enterprises in arrears of Government dues.  Commercial banks are now
required to set up additional provisions for doubtful debts in addition to
normal risk reserves.  These provisions will be equivalent to 20% of those
debts classified as non-performing according to the criteria established by
the  Bank  Supervisory  Board.   This,  together  with  tight  credit  monetary
policies, will tighten financial discipline in the economy.
We will limit enterprise and subsector specific financial support
designed to alleviate financial difficulties of enterprises to that provided
under the liquidation/refloatation framework, with the exception of coal
mining (discussed below), and a Ft600 million Government guarantee for bank
loans to enterprises that are unable to gross up their wage bills in 1988
following the tax reform. The 1988 budget allocation to the Refloatation Fund
was reduced to Ftl.5 billion, 25% below 1987 nominal levels. State guarantees
for issue of bonds to finance the Refloatation Fund have been eliminated.
Further, the Government has elaborated programs for the resolution of problems
in crisis sub-sectors, and some major enterprises known to be in chronic



- 41 -
financial difficulties.   Some of  these programs are now being implemented,
while the others are being reviewed.  The programs aim at restructuring of
enterprises in these subsectors, closure of non-viable units, reductions in
labor force, and shifting production to more profitable and competitive
activities permitting the reductioii and elimination of governmental support.
In the ferrous metallurgy subsector, we have eliminated current
subsidies other than CMEA Price Equalization (Ft5 billion in 1988), and intend
to continue this limitation. We have developed plans to restructure capacity
to enable the units to operate with financial self-sufficiency.   As part of
these plans, further investments are limited to those for restructuring
existing capacities, support to which during 1988-90, will not exceed Ft2.0
billion.
We are currently developing a restructuring plan for the coal mining
subsector.  The plan, which we will review with the Bank and finalize by
November 1988, will include: a substantial reduction in the level of coal
production from underground mines; a review of the feasibility of import of
energy  to  substitute  coal  from  underground  mines;  the  identification  of
uneconomic pits (pits whose coal production costs are higher than those for
comparable energy source imports) and a timetable for taking necessary
measures, including closure of the uneconomic pits and a concurrent reduction
in the labor force, especially administrative staff.  We will implement the
plan from 1989 and progressively reduce subsidies to coal mining commencing
with a substantial reduction from the 1988 budget allocation of FtlO.6 billion
(including those for grossing-up of wage bills of coal mining enterprises
which were provided in 1988).
3. International Trade
The Government recognizes that external competition through export
promotion and a liberal import policy is an essential ingredient of our policy
to increase the pressure on domestic enterprises to improve efficiency.  We
intend to maintain the incentives currently provided to export related
investments under the export promotion program introduced in 1986.  We are
continuously taking steps to increase the relative profitability of exports to
convertible currency markets.  We are streamlining the procedures for import
licensing to ensure licenses are issued to exporters in an expeditious way to
avoid export constraints.
To achieve the needed improvement in the convertible currency trade
balance, the Government will rely on market based instruments and tight demand
management.    The  Government  will  maintain  the  import  regime  free  of
quantitative restrictions in line with Hungary's protocol with the GATT.  We
recognize the need to foster greater import competition.  Toward this end, we
will encourage more widespread use of international competitive bidding for
goods and services  in investments  financed from the Government budget.  We
will also encourage the commercial banks to promote the increased use of
international competitive bidding by their borrowers.



- 42 -
We have already liberalized access to foreign trading rights, thus
promoting  greater  links  between  production  and   trade,   and   increased
competition in foreign trading activities. As of January 1, 1988 all legal
entities may register automatically to conduct foreign trade in convertible
currencies subject only to prescribed criteria of staff capability and
financial viability.
Finally, with the establishment of the new Ministry of Trade, we
have  reorganized  the  responsibilities  related  to  foreign  trade.   In this
context, we will review the regulatory framework influencing convertible
currency  foreign  trade.  In  light  of  the  outcome  of  the review, we will
identify necessary changes to make the framework more efficient in line with
the Government's policy objectives.   Thereafter, by the end of 1988, we will
develop a timetable for implementing necessary changes and implement them
beginning in 1989.
4. Pricing
The Government recognizes thaL prices should respond to demand and
supply, and changes in the structure of relative prices are crucial to
efficient resource allocation.   We will  increasingly replace administrative
price determination by market mechanisms which will help develop a flexible
and  dynamic  economy  integrated  more  effectively  into world  markets.   For
inflation control, the Government will rely on appropriate monetary and fiscal
policies.
In the context of the introduction of the VAT, we found it necessary
to impose a temporary administrative control of price movements from August
1987, requiring prior reporting of all intended price increases to the
Government.  This requirement was abolished on April 1, 1988.  Enterprises are
now free to change most prices.  Prices of 25% of the value of producer goods
turnover remain administratively set, mainly for energy, transport, some
agricultural products and chemicals.
Since January 1, 1988, price of at least 80% of consumer goods are
classified as belonging to the  free  pricing  category.   Of  this,  22%  are
subject to advance reporting, 5% to price consultation procedures, and the
remaining 53% are subject only to the Import Pricing Rule and the Law of
Unfair Economic Practices.   This proportion will be increased to at  least
62.5%  by  January  1,  1989.   Beginning  April  1,  1988,  administratively
determined maximum consumer prices have been limited mainly to energy,
passenger  and  city  transport,  milk  and  some  items  of  basic  foods,
pharmaceuticals, amounting to no more than 20% of consumer goods.
We will examine the scope of administrative price setting,
consultations and advance reporting by the end of 1988 with a view to limiting
their coverage and improving the effectiveness of market forces in the
economy. We plan to review tne level of administratively determined maximum
consumer and producer prices and the process for setting them to identify
possible improvements and reductions in their scope.  We intend to implement
the results of the review during 1989.  In 1989 and 1990 we intend to reduce



- 43 -
the number of goods covered by advance reporting. Where advance reporting is
designed to permit monitoring of expected price developments, we will replace
it by by ex-post reporting.
We are taking steps to develop legislation to prevent monopolistic
behavior for enactment in 1989. Meanwhile, the pricing authorities will limit
their consultations with producers and coisumers to markets dominated by a
small number of firms or where other major market imperfections exist.  We
will continuously review our experience with these consultations, and we will
also consider the use of imports to enforce market discipline in cases of
unfair  market  practices,  or  other  market  imperfections.   Based  on  such
reviews, we expect to be able to increase the share of consumer prices subject
only to the Import Pricing Rule and the Law of Unfair Economic Practices to
about 70% by January 1, 1990, though this percentage can only be determined
finally after the reviews have been completed.
5. Taxation and Subsidies
A major achievement of the Government in 1987 was the enactment of
the tax ref rm, comprising the introduction of a value added tax and personal
income-tax. and the elimination of a large number of the existing taxes on
enterprise .  The tax reform has been implemented effective from January 1,
1988.   -    tax  reform eliminated  a  great many  distortions  to  enterprise
decision-making  and will  enable efficient enterprises  to retain a greater
proportion of their profits which will lead to long-run efficiency gains.
Aggregate corporate profit taxes are projected to decrease by Ft44 billion and
indirect taxes to increase by FtllO billion (8% of GDP).
By January 1, 1989, the Countervalue Tax will be eliminated and the
Entrepreneurial Tax will be integrated into the personal and corporate profit
taxes  including  a  provision  for  the  deduction  of  the  cost  of  the
entrepreneur's labor income for tax purposes.
We will undertake a further streamlining of the legal framework of
enterprise taxation and introduce a new unified law for the taxation of
business profits not later than January 1, 1990.  The new system will aim to
make the tax system neutral with reference to form of association.
In view of the need for strict demand management in 1988, the
Government will rebate only 20% of the value added tax paid on goods used for
investment.  This is a purely transitory measure:   40% will be rebated from
1989, 60% f:om 1990, 80% from 1991, and full rebates are planned from 1992.
In addition to the tax reform, a subsidy reduction program will
further restructure the role of the State budget in the economy.   The  1988
annual plan contains a reduction in the total current producer and consumer
support  from  the  State  budget,   the  budget  of  Local   Councils,   and
Extrabudgetary Funds of Ft37.1 billion to Ft204.9 billion.  The Government is
strongly committed to taking the needed measures to meet the 1988 plan target



- 44 -
for  reducing  subsidies.   We will  endeavor  to  continue  the  phase-out  of
subsidies as rapidly as possible to improve fiscal balance, tighten financial
discipline and promote structural adjustment at both the macroeconomic and
enterprise  levels.   Toward this end, by October 1988 we will develop and
thereafter review with the Bank, a program to reduce subsidies and financial
support from the 1988 Plan level of Ft2O4.9 billion by at least 10% per year
in 1989 and 1990.
6. Wage Differentiation and Worker Mobility
The Government supports the principle of free determination of
individual earnings based on performance.   However,  given the necessity of
very strict demand management policies in 1988, the Government has been
obliged to enforce a general ceiling on increases in enterprises wage bill.
During 1988, enterprises will be subject to a 2.5% ceiling on the growth of
titeir total earnings bill.  Within the aggregate ceiling, enterprises could
generate savings by releasing excess labor and apply such savings to increase
wages for the remaining work force by more than 2.5X.  The mandatory upper
limits of wage scales have been removed from 1988 to enlarge the scope for
such wage differentiation. The only exception to the general ceiling on wage
increases will be made in respect of a small group of enterprises (employing
at present 6% of the labor force) meeting objective criteria of profitability,
creditworthiness, and non-reliance on budgetary subsidies.
The Government intends to elaborate a reform of the wage system
during 1988,  to be implemented beginning from January 1, 1989.  The reform
will enable productive enterprises freely to determine individual earnings,
subject to an overall ceiling on their wage bill related to performance,
permitting sufficient scope for wage differentiation.  This will address the
need for major shifts in employment patterns likely to arise over the next few
years as a result of industrial restructuring.
A significant step has been taken in 1988 with the establishment of
the Employment Fund with a budget of Ftl.2 billion, to strengthen measures for
retraining and facilitate labor mobility.   We will continue  to modify the
conditions for use of the Fund based on experience.
7.  Capital Markets
Further   development   of   the   capital   markets   for   efficient
mobilization and allocation of capital will be continued.   The new Law of
Association, the conversion of some state enterprises into joint-stock
companies, and proposals for establishment of securities market regulation,
will help to develop the capital market. As a first step, we have already
introduced "capital tickets", which are a redeemable, non-voting profit
sharing instrument to be issued to employees by their enterprises in 1988.
The enterprise and household bond markets have been integrated with the
removal of requirement of a State guarantee for bonds sold to the population.
We will further modify the regulatory environment to promote development of
insurance, and develop plans to operate the social security system on a
self-sustaining basis.   These  measures   will  also help  to strengthen  the
development of the capital market.



- 45 -
To ensure the availability of timely and reliable information about
the financial position of enterprises and potential borrowers to the banks and
investors, new accounting standards, auditing and disclosure requirements have
been introduced in January 1988.
From mid-1987, several financial institutions, including insurance
companies, commercial and specialized banks, have joined together to develop a
credit information system and to share information on bond issues and
trading.   The  Government  will  support  an  initiative  to  develop  a  stock
exchange that can serve the needs of an active and diversified financial
market.
8. Banking System
The most important step to be taken is to integrate the interest
rates for enterprises and households in order to unify the flow of savings
among all sources and uses through the banking system. The main obstacle to
this integration has been the system of subsidized housing loans financed out
of  low  interest  rate household  deposits.   During  1988,  we  will  develop
comprehensive proposals for a new housing finance system.
As a preliminary step towards the integration of banking services,
commercial banks have been permitted during 1988 to issue bonds to households
to mobilize resources and to provide banking services to entrepreneurs.   By
January 1, 1989 we will implement the integration of banking services for
households and enterprises and continue the process, with full integration
planned in 1989-90.
New instruments such as treasury bills have been introduced in 1988
to strengthen the effectiveness of monetary policy. Graduated interest rates
have been introduced to improve the refinancing mechanism to reduce excess
liquidity in the banking system and facilitate better management of monetary
policy. We will continue to review the interest rate structure, refinancing
criteria and reserve requirements to improve the effectiveness of monetary
policy, resource mobilization and allocation.
By June 1988, the newly established commercial banks will carry out
a portfolio review by independent auditors to determine the extent of
non-performing loans, set up provisions as necessary in accordance with the
regulations issued by the State Bank Supervision Board. Steps will be taken to
strengthen and systematize the inter-bank market and to establish a clearing
center for checks and payments.
The Government intends to introduce foreign exchange operations by
commercial banks gradually, commencing in 1988. For the time being, borrowing
in foreign currencies will be carried out exclusively by the National Bank in
view of the need for very careful management of the country's external debt.



- 46 -
9. Enterprise Management System
The Government intends to extend the system of autonomous enterprise
management, at present based on management by partly elected enterprise
councils or by enterprise assemblies.  While the experience with the present
system is too short to draw any defirlte conclusions at present, modifications
will be made as required in the light of experiences in the next two years,
especially as deregulation of prices and wages is progressively implemented.
As mentioned earlier, the new Law of Association will permit State
enterprises to convert themselves into joint stock companies. The Government
believes that the decision for such conversion should be taken at the
initiative  of  the  enterprise  managements  themselves.   To  encourage  the
conversion process, we will identify an initial group of enterprises and
facilitate their conversion commencing from 1989.
10. Direct Foreign Investment
The Government recognizes the contribution direct foreign investment
could make to improving the structure and performance of the Hungarian
economy.   Besides  intensifying  promotional  campaigns  to  attract  foreign
capital and continuing to enter into investment protection agreements with
other  countries,  we  will  continue  to  assess  the  effectiveness  of  tt.-
incentives framework, rules, regulations and operating environment for direct
foreign investment and implement modifications as necessary in the context of
the newly introduced tax reform and the proposed law of association.
11. Technology Development
Technology development is one of the major objectives of our current
program.   The  reform of  the  tax system and other policy areas radically
improves the preconditions for technology development.
We have introduced measures for accounting treatment of intangible
assets such as intellectual property, e.g., patents and copyrights, and are
continuing to develop measures for the accounting treatment of intangible
assets and disembodied technology, which will provide necessary incentives for
R&D. We intend to review the twelve national R&D programs with a view to
concentrating resources on a few selected priority areas, instead of diffusing
them thinly and widely. We are continuously developing measures to promote
the acquisition of foreign know-how through licensing for indigenous
manufacture and for encouraging its assimilation.   We will  streamline  the
procedure for approval of licensing, leading to a registration mechanism
instead of individual approvals by January 1, 1989.  We will continue our
effort  to make R&D by enterprises more market oriented, and increase the
proportion of R&D resources available to enterprises for market oriented R & D
activities.



- 47 -
Conclusion
We believe that these actions will contribute to meeting the
objectives of industrial restructuring and policy reform as set out in our
earlier letters of intent. As in the past, we will continue to consider the
reforms as an ongoing process because the specific steps and targets needed to
achieve structural adjustment in the industrial sector will change and evolve
over time, depending on economic trends and on the results of the reform
measures already taken. Accordingly, we will, in consultation with the Bank,
continue to deepen the reform process and develop further measures to be taken
in succeeding years until the objective of establishing a flexible and
efficient structure of production is established.
We  have  always  been  in  mutual  agreement  that  the  economic
stabilization and structural reform program - of which the industrial sector
policy reform program forms the core - both need to be implemented in a
consistent and coordinated manner to obtain the necessary supply response, and
lead  to sustained economic  growth.   I would  like  to reconfirm  that  the
Government  is  committed  to  implement  the  program.   We  appreciate  the
assistance the World Bank has provided us in this endeavor under the first two
industrial restructuring projects.  In continuation of this collaboration, I
request  the World Bank to extend an industrial sector adjustment loan to
Hungary in support of the program. This assistance, together with that of the
IMF, would help us in restoring equilibrium in the economy and achieving
structural changes.   It would also strengthen our access to the financial
markets during the period of economic stabilization and structural reform.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
Joszef Marjai
Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the
Hungarian People's Republic



48 -
ANNEX fi-I
Page I of 8
bUINGARY
Summar of Industrial Policy Reform Prooram. 19a8-190
Policy area/Actions
Pre-Board PresentatiOns             Mid 1988 - end 1988                       1989                           1990
l. Entry of Enterorise
Enact decree permitting
individuals to form limited
liability associations
jointly with a legal entity.
Finalization by Council of        Submit draft law(s) to             Implement law(s) and           Continue implementation
Ministers of new draft            Parliament. Following              related regulations
legislation (Law of               Parliamentary approval.            from January 1. '989
Association) permitting           amend related laws and
(i)State enterprises to           regulations.
convert themselves
into joint stock Companies.
(ii)individuals to own
negotiable and transferable
shares in joint stock companies.
and (iii) individuals to form
limited liability companies
among themselves. and
joint stock companies.
Prepare new legislation to         Enact and implement            Continue implementation
unify financial environment        legislation.
facing different forms of
associations (e.g. taxation.
payment of dividends etc.)
and to facilitate mobility
among forms.
Take further measures to                                             Remove 20X Countervalue Tax.
promote foundation and growth                                        Integrate Entrepreneurial Tax
of entrepreneurship (e.g..                                           into personal and corporate
immediate rebate of VAT on                                           profit taxes and eliminate other
investment for entrepreneurs)                                        anomalies.
Increase in maximum number of
employees permitted per
entrepreneurship from 15 to 30                                       Assess impact of new tax system on entrepreneurs
and implement further necessary modifications.
Maintain tax benefits for establishment of new companies and         Review and modify tax bene1 its in light of Law of
subsidiaries and related incentives for decentralization of          Association and unified 1a&' for taxation of business
enterprises.                                                         profits.
Establish schedule for            Continue implementation of         Complete the program
breaking up of some large         program.
enterprises under State
management. and begin to
implement program.
2. Liouidation and restructurino of inefficient enterprises
Eliminate enterprise and                                             Continue implementation of   Continue implementation
subsector specific financial                                         policy                         of policy
assistance designed to
alleviate financial difficulties
of enterprises including
(i) tax and loan forgiveness.
(ii) State equity allocations.
(iii) guarantees of bank loans.
and (iv) grants. to individual
enterprises outside the
Liquidation/Refloatation
framework.



- 49 -
AhZEX 6-1
Page 2 of 8
HNMGARY
Sug=arv of Ipdustrial Pmliev Reform Program. lpaa-iqqo
Policy area/Acttons
Pre-Board Presentations             1id 1988 - end 1988                     1989                           1990
Eliminate Govt. guarantees                                     Continue implementation of    Continue implementation
of loans and bond issues for                                   policy                         of policy
Refloatation Organization
Reduce budgetary allocations                                   Maintain budgetary allo-       Maintain budgetary allo-
to Refloatation Organization                                   cation to Refloatation         cation to Refloatation
from Ft2.0 billion tn 1987                                     Organization at less than      Organization at less than
to Ftl.S billion in 1988.                                      previous year's nominal        previous year's nominal
level                          level
Continue to monitor and enforce adherence to existing refloatation agreements by already refloated enterprises.
Require banks to make           Continue to implement the    Continue implementation          Continue implementation
provisions for non-             measures
performirg loans and take
measures to encourage banks.
tax authorities, and
enterprises to collect debts
promptly in order to promote
financial discipline.
Begin implementation of         Decide restructuring plan    Implement plans
action plans for quick and      for coach plant of Ganz Mavag
efficient resolution of         Soroksar Eng. Works and
problems of Ganz Havag,         Pet Fertilizer
Lang Machinery Works,
S9roksar Eng. Works and         Implement restructuring plans for other enterprises in the liquidation/refloatation
Pet Fertilizer,                 process
Begin revising program for      Finalize restructuring         Begin implementation           Continue implementation
restructuring of coal mining   program.
industry to increase
efficiency and reduce
subsidies.
Develop the restructuring       Begin implementation           Continue the implementation. Eliminate current
program for ferrous                                            subsidies except for CHEA price Equalization from
metallurgy tncluding limiting                                  the 1988 level and limit Investment support to Ft2
current subsidies except for                                   billion for restructuring investment.
CMEA Price Equalization and
limiting investment support
during 1988-1990 to a total of
Ft2 billion.
3. rnterna&tlnal Trade
Maintain the import regime free of quantitative restrictions in accordance with the GATT rules
and rely increasingly on overall macroeconomic policy and flexible use of market-based instruments, such as
an active exchange rate policy, for SOP management.
Continue to expand foreign
trading rights by introducing
automatic registration for
legal entities.



- 50 -
Page 3 of 8
HuIIeARY
Summary nt Induttrial Polie ReBtrm Programn IOBa-1990
Policy area/Actions
Pre-Pnard Presentations            Kid 1988 - end 1988                       1989                          1990
Continue to encourage establishment of foreign trading houses. offices of foreign companies in Hungary. and offices of
Hungarian companies abroad.
Review procedures and implement Continue application of streamlined procedures.
changes to enzure issue of
import licenses to exporters
expeditiously.
Review the regulatory             Implement necessary improvements to make framework
framework influencing             more efficient.
convertible currency trade.
Ensure favorable conditions to                                      Continue the process          Continue the process
create customs free zones.
Review and rationalize export                                       Implement necessary changes  Continue implementation
promotion incentives
including regulations for
rebate of VAT on investment
goods, in light of tax reform.
Review implementation of                                            Implement necessary changes  Carry out further review
Export Promotion Program, to                                        changes.                      of modified export
identify measures for monitoring                                                                  promotion program.
performance of eligible units.
Conclude st4dy of export                                            Implement recoomendations    Complete implementation
marketing                                                           of study
Continue to lower nominal                                           Camplete ERP study in the first nL!f of 1989.  Take
tariffs in line with GATT                                           actions accordingly to further rationalize tariffs
taking into account the results of the ERP study and
results of the Uruguay round.
Take measures to improve         Maintain appropriate relative profitability of sales to convertible currency markets
relative profitability of        in relation to sales to other markets.
sales to convertible currency
markets in relation to sales
to other markets.
Continuously monitor and take steps to increase effectiveness of the import competition program and broaden its scope.
and reduce constraints.
4. Pricing
Implement restructuring of
relative prices in context of
tax reform.
Implement plan to move from
price regulation towards
market regulation. Redefine
main role of price
authorities to monitoring
enterprise compliance with
Law of Unfair Economic
Practices and regulation of
imperfect markets.



- 51 -
ANNHX i-l
Page 4 of 8
sunmary of Industrial Policy Retorm Progam  12l8-1l290
Policy area/Actions
Pro-Board Presentations             Mid 1988 - end 1988                       1989                           1990
Increase proportion of           Review coverage. level and        Implement results of study.    Further increase the
consumer goods under general    methods of price setting.          including Increasing             proportion of ceonsumer
pricing rules to 53%             advance reporting and             proportion of consumer           goods prices subject
consultation procedure in        goods prices subject only        only to the Import
producer and consumer pricing  to the Import Pricing Rule         Pricing Rule and the
by end-1988 to limit their       and the law of Unfair            law of Unfair Economic
scope and improve                Economic Practices to at         Practices in line with
effectiveness of market          least 62.5% by January           the review with the
forces.                          1. 1989.                         expectation that the
proportion can reach
about 70% by January
1, 1990.
End current universal
requirement for firms to
report price increases
(April 1. 1988).
Examine scope for use of
selective imports oe
consumer goods to enforce
market discipline in cases of
unfair market practices.
Elaborate legislative framework to prevent monopolistic           Implement the legal
behavior and enact the framework.                                 framework.
S. Taxation and Subsidies
Implement tax reform                                               Review/assess infrastructure   Review tax system and
(introduction of VAT and PIT                                       for tax administration. and    propose modifications
and rawval of other taxes).                                        modify as needed.                (e.g. in rates. brackets
to reduce tax burden an                                                                             etc.) as necessary.
enterprise profits (1/S8).
Prepare further improvements   Eliminate Countervalue tax.
in tax legislation
Integrate Entrepreneurial tax
into personal and corporate
profit taxation.
Prepare unified law for          Subject to parliamentary
taxation of business profits   approval. implement the
law
Rebate 20% of VAT on                                               Increase rebate of VAT on        Increase rebate of VAT
investment goods.                                                  investment goods to 40%         on investment goods to
60%
Eliminate tax incentives for
categories of investment
other than export promotion
(e.g.. energy conservation.
waste recycling. raw
materials, savings. etc.)



- S2 -
ANNX fi-1
Page S of a
HURM
Summry of IndustriAl Polity Reform Program- 1911-log
Policy area/Actions
Pre-Board Presentations           Mid 1988 - end 1988                        1989                           l990
Reduce total consumr and         Oevelop plan to reduce
producer subsidies from           progressively total consumer       Impleiwnt producer and consumer subsidy reduction plan
fT242 billion in 1987            and Oroducer subsidies by
by 1S  to FtzOS billion         at least 10% per year
in 1988                          in 1989-90.
6. Waoe D'fferentiation and Labor Mibilitv
Introduce wage club to exempt   Review experience and
enterprises meeting defined      evaluate results
criteria from earnings
regulation.
Prepare reform of the            Submit proposals for approval    Permit enterprises to            Continue implementation
wage system                                                          determine Individual           of wage reform
earnings freely. subject
Eliminate mandatory                                                 to an overall ceiling en
application of wage scale                                            their wage bill relatbd
ceilings.                                                            to enterprise performance.
Introduce unified Employment                                        Review operations of Fund    Smplement improvements
Fund in 1988 Budget                                                  to identify and implement
possible improvements.
Modify conditions for use of    Develop further proposals to         Review effectiveness and       Review effectiveness and
retraining benefits to           facilitate worker mobility.        make modifications as          make modifications as
facilitate labor mobility.                                          needed.                        needed.
7. Capital larket
Enact decree to liberalize
and integrate household and
enterprise bond market
(including removal of
required state guarantee)
tntroduce non-voting.
redeemable, profit sharing
instruments for issue by
enterprises to their
employees (Capital tickets).
Take further measures to develop securities information              Evaluate effectiveness of    Complete implementation
system based on initiatives by participating institutions            system and implement
ImplerAnt new                                                       Evaluate effectiveness and   Implement improvements
accounting/auditing/information                                      implement appropriate
disclosure requirements for                                         modifications
enterprises.
Review and modify, as necessary, the regulatory environment to promote development of insurance business.
Review and develop, as necessary, the measures to encourage wider use of instruments to supplementary pensions.
Review and develop. as necessary the plan to operate social security system on a self-sufficient basis over a period.



- S3 -
ANNEX 6-1I
Page 6 of 8
HUGARY
SumarX of Industriag Policy Roform Program. 198a-1990
Policy area/Actions
Pre-Board Presentations            Mid 1988 - end 1988                       1989                           1990
8.  Bankina SYste
Permit coesercial banks to engage in household transactions          Integrate household and       Continue implementation
enterprise banking services.
Develop proposals for new housing finance system and submit          Begin implementation          Continue implementation
for approval
Require comurcial banks to                                          Monitor compliance
carry out portfolio review to
determine extent of
non-perforining loans
Require banks to set up           Apply regulations for              Continue to apply              Continue application
provisions for nonperforming    providing for nonperforming          regulations
loans and increase capital as   1oans.
necessary.
Establish institutional          Prepare and publish audits          Prepare and publish audits   Prepare and publish
arrangements for annual                                                                             audits
independent audits of
comercial banks
Introduce issue of treasury                                          Evaluate effectiveness and   Continue to implement
bills                                                                introduce modifications as   modifications as
necessary                     necessary
Oevelop methods and action        Implement system                   Continue implementation        Continue implementation
plans for cl ercial banks
to conduct foreign exchange
operations (excluding
borrowing in international
markets) and to make
adequate provisions for
associated risks.
Facilitate institutional         Assess operations of market         Implement improvements.        Implement improvements.
arrangements for interbank       and initiate improvements as
mrket                             needed
Finalize proposals for           Begin to implement proposals        Continue implementation        Complete establishment
setting-up of bank clearing                                                                         of clearing center
center.
Take further measures to develop credit information system           Implement credit               Evaluate effectiveness
based on initiatives by financial institutions.                      information system.            of system and implement
needed improvements.
Permit enterprtses to open
current accounts in more than
one bank.
Reassess interest rate structure. refinancing criteria, and reserve requirements and implement modifications as needed
to improve efficiency of financial system.
Complete design of                Begin to implemnt the              Implement program.             Complete implementation
program for bankers training    program
school.



- 64 -
AlNtYi 6-1
Page 7 of 8
HUNGARY
Sumry ot Industrial Policy Reform Program-. 13a-1,00
Policy area/Actions
Pro-Board Presentations             Mid 1988 - end 1988                      1989                           1990
9.  Enterprise Management System
Oecide an and begin               Continue implementation            Complete implementation
implementation of enterprise
management system in group of
enterprises remaining under
State and council management,
inter alia. in coordination
with decentralization program.
Complete study to assess          Continue to implement modifications as needed
effectiveness of the
enterprise management system.
Establish and begin to            Continue implementation.           Continue implementation
implement management
development and training
program.
Develop and implement            Continue implementation             Continue implementation
proposals to reduce
statistical reporting
requirements for enterprises
in line with reforms in
accounting and taxation.
Identify enterprises for conversion into share companies             Facilitate conversion of      Complete conversion of
selected companies            selected companies
10. Direct Foreign Investment
Continue to assess effectiveness of incentives framework. and    Implement measures in context
implement modifications as necessary in context of tax reform    of Law of Association
and preparation of law of association.
Intensify promotional campaign to attract foreign                   Continue promotional campaign
capital/technology to Hungary.
Continue to expand number of countries with whom investor protection agreements in place.
11. Technology Develomnent
Implement new tax incentives                                        Conduct a review of economic Begin implementation
for R&D under tax reform                                             incentives for R&D and
prepare proposals for
implementation
Implement national R&D           Conduct a midyear review of        Continue implementation        Continue implementation
programs in priority             R&D programs and modify them                                      Based on the evaluation
areas.                            to improve effectiveness                                         of present R&D plan.
and greater concentration                                         develop R&D strategy for
on the more promising areas                                       the 191-9S period
if necessary.
Abolish regulations                                                  Design and introduce           Evaluate the impact of
for compulsory establishment                                        measures to strengthen R&D   measures implemented and
of tech. dev. funds                                                  facilities of universities   policy followed.
by enterprises.                                                     with the aim to upgrade the
level of education and R&O
capabilities



- 55 -
AIIIIX 6-1
Page 8 of a
Summaery of Industrial Poliny Reform Program 1988-1990
Policy area/Actions
Pre-Board Presentations            Mid 1988 - end 1988                      1989                           1990
rncrease share of allocatt0n
frem central funds for market
oriented R&D activities.
Prepare measures to               Introduce measures
streamline procedures for the
approval of acquisition of
foreign licenses including
the substitution of present
approval procedure with
registration mechanism in
specific areas for
introduction by January 1,
1989.
Implement accounting rules to   Study measures to extend            Introduce measures
capitalize intangible            accounting rules to                identified as a result of
assets acquired commercially    capitalize other types of           study.
intangible assets. e.g.
proprietory technology
developed within the company
for implementation.
Implement moderniation          Continue Implementation of the program                           Based on evaluation of
program for R&D                                                                                   the ongoing program.
infrastructure.                                                                                   prepare a long term
strategy to upgrade the
infrastructure for R&D
over the period 1991
_2e5O. 8.i nn
term program for 1991
95. including imple-
mentation plan.
(O6lif)



- 56 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable for Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:                8 months
(b)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:               March 4, 1988
(c)   Completion of Negotiations:                   May 13, 1988
(d)   Planned Date of Effectiveness;                July 15, 1988
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(1)   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
None
(2)   Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche
(i)   Adoption of the 1989 Annual Plan and State Budget, including a
public investment plan, which: (a) further reduces the State Budget
balance and is designed to lead to a halting in the growth of
Hungary's external debt in convertible currency by the end of 1990;
and (b) further reduces the total producer and consumer subsidies
and other financial support from the 1988 Annual Plan level of
Ft2O4.9 billion by at least 10%.
(ii)   Enactment of a law of associations and related legislation which
would permit: (a) State enterprises to convert themselves into joint
stock companies; (b) individuals to hold negotiable shares in joint
stock companies; and (c) individuals to form limited liability and
joint stock companies.
(iii)   Adoption and commencement of implementation of programs,
satisfactory to the Bank, to restructure the ferrous metallurgy and
coal mining subsectors.



- 57 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
(iv)   Enactment of legislation which would eliminate the Countervalue Tax
and integrate the Entrepreneurial Tax as part of the corporate
profit and personal income taxes.
(v)   Enactment of legislation which would allow enterprises to determine
freely individual earnings subject to an overall ceiling on the
enterprise's wage bill related to its performance.
(vi)   Integration of banking services for enterprises and households.



MAP SECTION



Hr                                                                                   20lBRD 17361t
H U N GARY                                                 EXISTING FEATURES4
BANK ASSISTED PROJECTS                                                        Mtorwy                                       CZECHOSLOVAKIA                                                                                                4% --'         Jo Uivf-i  u s s R.
PROJECTS.                                                     Reilways
1. Inniastroa                                                     Cornals                                                                                       -sw                                       r       X        ,                    r          > 
A  A9l-ltu,.I                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ri-er
AW    Agrocuitorol                                                    Nlationl Copita1
Pntioleonr                                0~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Megye Capitolss I
Tronspors  .                                                   Internetionol Boon-drie.
Container Terminols
-   Rend                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELEVATIONS;
0-200 et.,s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tsoona    y regyh6za
Sov-,                                                                                                       ILDornodwdr  ,   ,                M< 2 <>f                                    >< >                        s               POLAND (
enO- h
~~ MehedesOd 57 \Wt __d__8_ o' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S                                                                                                                                             ROMANIA _n
Szorabjthely                                                          rniIzk6fkr)t
IISCAL
-/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sbs,rTO Karn                                                                               L       GiO STeRag an ---dmn\_tme.\  .S 
IL                                                     tr                                                                                      v-                               j                                       C    g -.  .,wGiEEce                       1983TURKEC
Kcsisem6tJb                                                                                  re oet ad Rt.WOig'               t9,l
fo,Ante     T-eepws ~OI' RodO                    19"85
P_                       ~~~~~~~~~~~1986
Iro Prdoam lnrpenan                  986
hdid~r ReW ormim  - It              1986
TaZegreA'1                                                                                                                                                                          Tnlmaarmssotmoe                      1987~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,p rt Ir l'18
-,,!,OLA        ANND ~           
JHUNGARY                     ULGRI
T. -v   b- wpw by                ROMANJA~~~~~~~~~
aneaeioreateete\orver 
9   201         4          60)        BI                                                                                   :\pR
ToOs.nenR                  ~~~~KILOMETERS                                                    o7nirmeOtoo
oat eanatOn  ~   ITAL    ALBANlA~~.r ~          4     TRKEY 
MARCH 19d8



