Page  1
May 11, 1989
The Managing Director
National Bank of Hungary
Department for International
  Development Institutions
H-1850 Budapest
Szabadsad ter 8-9
Hungarian People's Republic
          Re:  Loan No. 2965 HU
               (Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan)
               Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
1.        Reference is made to the loan agreement for the
above-captioned project (the Loan Agreement) between the Hungarian
People's Republic (the Borrower) and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated July 1, 1988, and
to the Borrower's request to amend the Loan Agreement to facilitate
the contracting by the National Bank of Hungary of a loan from the
Export-Import Bank of Japan and other commercial banks in Japan for
the financing of imports required during the execution of the
Borrower's industrial sector structural adjustment program supported
by the Bank pursuant to the Loan Agreement.
2.        We hereby agree to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
     (1)  The following paragraph (d) is added to Section 1.02 of
the Loan Agreement:
               "(d) 'EXIMBANK Loan' means the loan proposed
          to be made by the Export-Import Bank of Japan and
          certain commercial banks in Japan to the National
          Bank of Hungary to assist in the co-financing of
          the Program."
     (2)  Article IV of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as
set forth in the attachment to this letter.
3.   This amendment shall become effective upon the execution of
the agreement providing for the loan, referred to in paragraph 1 of
this letter, between the National Bank of Hungary and the
Export-Import Bank of Japan and the commercial banks in Japan named
therein.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing,
dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter.
                                   Very truly yours,
                                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                              RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   /s/  Eugenio F. Lari
                                         Director
                                   Country Department IV
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                                        Regional Office
CONFIRMED: by HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC on 5/22/89
                                             ATTACHMENT
                      ARTICLE IV
                 Remedies of the Bank
Page  2
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of National Bank of Hungary to
                    withdraw the proceeds of the EXIMBANK Loan
                    shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing
                    therefor, or
               (B)  the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity
                    thereof.
              (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
                    not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                    the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                    suspension, cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not caused by the failure of
                    the National Bank of Hungary to perform any
                    of its obligations under such agreement;
                    and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
                    available to the Borrower from other
                    sources on terms and conditions consistent
                    with the obligations of the Borrower under
                    this Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
(ii) of that Section.\1a
