Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2965 HU
                (Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                    HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated July 1, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  July  1.  1988,  between HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Bank  has  received  a  letter dated May 26,
1988, from the Government of  the Borrower describing a program of
objectives, policies and  actions  designed  to achieve structural
adjustment of the industrial sector of the Borrower's economy (the
Program), and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing
of urgently needed imports required during such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower hereby declares  its commitment to the exe-
cution of the Program; and
     WHEREAS on the basis, inter  alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of  the  Program to provide such assistance
to the Borrower by making the  Loan in two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
     such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
     Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
     to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
     Bank shall reasonably request,  on  the execution of the pro-
     gram referred to in the  Preamble  to the Loan Agreement, the
     performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
     obligations under the  Loan  Agreement and the accomplishment
     of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (c)  "Ft" means Forint in the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to two hundred
million dollars ($200,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance  with the provisions of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in the National
Bank of Hungary on terms  and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1990, or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
Page  3
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) The National  Bank of Hungary is designated
as representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Condi-
tions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
National Bank of Hungary is  entrusted with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under  the Loan and for the
collection of the documents and  other evidence to be furnished to
the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applica-
tions shall to the  extent  practicable  be  consolidated so as to
apply  for  withdrawal  of  aggregate  amounts  of  not  less than
$2,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  4
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  five months after the end
               of each such year,  a  certified copy of the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in such detail  as  the  Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Deputy Chairman of the Borrower's National Planning
Office, the Deputy Minister of Trade of the Borrower's Ministry of
Page  5
Trade or the Managing Director of  the National Bank of Hungary is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          National Bank of Hungary
          Department for International
            Development Institutions
          H-1850 Budapest
          Szabadsag ter 8-9
          Hungarian People's Republic
          Cable address:                      Telex:
          BANKO                                 227267 SMAFU-H
          Budapest                              225755 BANKO-H or
                                                227028 BANKO-H
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Miklos Pulai
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Wilfried P. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
Page  6
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,    unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether  or  not con-
                                            taining  tobacco  sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive  and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     718                     718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
     897                     897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                    -              Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (e)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (f)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $20,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of $100,000,000, unless the Bank
Page  7
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the  progress  achieved  by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved  and  actions  taken  are  not satisfactory and,
within 90 days  after  such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through   September 15, 2003                   10,000,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Except as provided in  paragraphs  2  and 3 hereof, contracts
for the  procurement  of  goods  shall  be  awarded through inter-
national  competitive  bidding   in   accordance  with  procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
Page  8
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines  is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 may be awarded on the basis of the normal procure-
ment procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for commonly traded  commodities  may be awarded on
the basis  of  price  quotations  available  from organized inter-
national commodity markets.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower  shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to the submission to the  Bank  of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from  the  Loan  Account  in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as  the  Bank may reasonably request
to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to the provisions  of  paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, as the case may  be, shall be furnished to the Bank
as part of the evidence  required  under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
Page  9
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Adoption of the 1989 Annual  Plan and State Budget, including
a public investment plan, which:
     (a)  further  improves  the  State   Budget  balance  and  is
designed to lead to  a  halting  in  the  growth of the Borrower's
convertible currency external debt by the end of 1990; and
     (b)  further reduces  the  total  producer  and consumer sub-
sidies and other financial support from the 1988 Annual Plan level
of Ft 204.9 billion by at least 10%.
2.   Enactment of a  law  of  associations and related legislation
which would permit:
     (a)  State enterprises to convert themselves into joint stock
companies;
     (b)  individuals to  hold  negotiable  shares  in joint stock
companies; and
     (c)  individuals to form  limited  liability  and joint stock
companies.
3.   Adoption  and  commencement  of  implementation  of programs,
satisfactory to the  Bank,  to  restructure the ferrous metallurgy
and coal mining subsectors.
4.   Enactment of legislation  which  would eliminate the Counter-
value Tax and integrate  the  Entrepreneurial  Tax  as part of the
corporate profit and personal income taxes.
5.   Enactment of  legislation  which  would  allow enterprises to
determine freely individual earnings,  subject to an overall ceil-
ing on the enterprise's wage bill related to its performance.
6.   Integration of banking  services  for  enterprises and house-
holds.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $40,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
Page  10
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall  have  been  justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan shall follow such proce-
dures as the Bank shall  specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized  in  making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
Page  11
