Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CM z;3 C/D- G /a
Report No. 7265-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
November 2, 1988
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restridted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY UNITS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$l.00  -  US$0.0033 (July 1988)
US$1.00  -  Col$305.O0 (July 1988)
ABBREVIATIONS
CEP        -    Regional Center for Support of Educational Reforms
DANE       -    Natiort Statistics Department
DNP        -    National Planning Department
FERs       -    Regional Education Funds
FONDO/MEN  -    Development Fund of the Ministry of Educatlon
ICCE       -    Colombian Institute for School Construction
ICFES      -    Colombian Institute for Development of Higher Education
INEM       -    Diversified Secondary School
IVA        -    National Value-added Tax
MEN        -    National Ministry of Education
NES        -    National Executive Secretariat (for the proposed project)
OSPE       -    Planning Office of the MEN
SENA       -    National Vocational Training System
SIED       -    Integrated Information System for Education of the MEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
February 1 - November 30
(September 1 - June 30, in some regions)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ....................................................... iii
LOAN AND P-IJECT SUMKARY.... . iv
I. THE SECTOR
Achievements  ........................  1
Selected Issues......................    2
Government Strategy ........................ .O- ............. .  7
Bank Strategy ...................... ...  8
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin .......................................  9
Project Objectives and Content                      ... 9
Rationale for Bank Involvement         ................ 9
Project Components .............................10
Implementation Arrangements. .........                         15
Project Costs and Financing    .            .18
Procurement ...................19
Disbursements  ............... 20
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .        ................. 20
Benefits and Risks.                   ...... ...... 21
III. RECOMMENDATIONS . ......................  . ...      .         22
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
ANNEX 2:      ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM - RATES OF
RETURN BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL
ANNEX 3:      RESOURCE USE, ALLOCATION AND MOBILIZATION - POLICY ISSUES IN
EDUCATION
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission carried out in
January-February 1988 and comprising Eleanor L. Schreiber (Leader, LA3HR),
Maryvonne Plessis-Praissard (Economist, LA3HR), Maria-Victoria Lister
(Operations Assistant, LA3HR); Ernesto Schiefelbein (Education Planner,
UNESCO). Mr. Schiefelbein, then Bank staff, led the preparation and pre-
appraisal missions carried out during 1987.
This document has a restricted distribution and ma;' be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
ANNEX 4s      SELECTED ISSUES IN SECTOR MANAGEMENT
ANNEX 5t      THE ESCUELA NUEVA
ANNEX 6t      DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS (POLICY, MANAGEMENT AND
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT COMPONENTS)
ANNEX 7:      PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
ANNEX 8t      PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
ANNEX 9:      PROCUREMENT
ANNEX 10:     DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
ANNEX 11:    ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
ANNEX 12:     SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP           IBRD 21089



- iii -
COLOMBIA
Second Subsector Project for Primary Iducation
Basic Data Sheet
Data       Year
A.  General Country Data:
1.  Populati,n Estimate (million)                     28.4     1985
2.  Population Growth Rate (Z)                         1.8     1978-85
3.  Income Per Capita (USS)                          1,320     1985
4.  GDP Growth Rate (Z)                                  5     1987
5.  Literacy Rate (2)                                   88     1985
6.  Area ('000 Sq. Km.)                             1,139      1988
B.   Education Datas
1. Primary Education
Enrollment Rate (2) *                            90      1986
2. Secondary Education
Enrollment Rate (2) *                            50      1986
3. Higher Education
Enrollment Rate (2)                              10      1986
4. Education Expenditures
as Share Public Expenditures (2)                 20      1987
5. Primary Expenditures
as a share of Ministry of Education
Expenditures (2)                                 40      1985
6. Secondary Expenditures
as a share of Ministry of Education
Expenditures (:)                                 29      1985
7.  Higher Education Expenditures
as a Share of Ministry of Education
Expenditures (2)                                 21      1985
* Including over-aged children
Source: IBRD, MEN, and Misssion Estimates



- iv -
COLOMBTA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:            Ministry of Education (MEN)
Amountt                  US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                   Payabie  in  17  years,  including  a  5-year grace
period, at. the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Project Obiectives       The project is designed to strengthen resource use
and Description:         and mobilization  policies  for  primary education,
and to raise the quality of primary education while
expanding access to all school-aged children. It
incorporates a six-year investment program prepared
by the Government for the subsector, and includes a
policy component, a management component and a
primary education development component.
The policy component aims to:   (a) raise the share
of non-personnel inputs in recurrent expenditures
in part by curtailing the establishment of new
teacher posts and financing incentives to relocate
excess  teachers,  mainly   to   rural  areas;  (b)
introduce a new student promotion policy to reduce
repetition, dropout and average costs per graduate;
(c) raise the level of investment for primary
education  and   direct   the   largest   share  of
investment resources to schools in disadvantaged
rural areas; (d) encourage local contributions to
the financing of civil works in the subsector; and
(e) finance studies to assess alternatives for the
future  financing   of   higher   education.    The
management component includes funding for technical
assistance,   staff   training   and   studies  to:
(a) complete    introduction    of    an   improved
information  system   and   strengthen  medium-term
planning  and  policy   monitoring  for  education;
(b) develop  budgeting   and  financial  management
skills  within  the   MEN;  (c)  improve  technical
support capacity at the central and departmental
levels  of  the  MEN,   and  program  planning  and
implementation capabilities at departmental and
local levels; and (d) prepare future projects. The
primary  education   development   component  would
finance:



v 
student and teacher materials and school libraries
in 4,000 schools and in-service training for 20,000
teachers,  to  complete   the   introduiction  of  a
successful rural curriculum, the Escuela Nuev&; (b)
basic school furniture for 13,000 rural schools and
classroom upgrading for about 4,300 rural schools
to improve access; (c) textbooks and in-aervice
teacner  training  to   support   a  revised  urban
curriculum and, in marginal areas, furniture for
some 2,100 urban schools; and (d) a system to
assess student achievement in primary education,
extension of rural basic education beyond the
primary cycle on a pilot basis, and a policy study
on the future development of secondary education.
Benefits:                The  project's  focus   on  policies  for  resource
management would contribute to improvements in
quality and access without substantially raising
routine   expenditure   requirements   for  primary
education.    In   particular,  the  project  would
support an increase in the share of recurrent
expenditures for non-personnel inputs from 1X to
3?, an increase in the participation rate of rural
school-aged children from 70? to 90? and in the
completion rate of rural students from 20? to 60?,
and reduce the cost per primary graduate by nearly
302.   The  planned  management  improvements would
also   strengthen   planning   and   implementation
capacities at the regional and municipal levels, in
line    with    increasing    decentralization   of
administrative   responsibilities   and   financial
strengthenirg underway at the municipal level.
Risks:                   The project faces  a  risk of implementation delays
owing to the size of the investment program and the
direct  participation  of   the  municipalities  in
school upgrading. To reduce this risk, the build-
up   of   implementation    activities   would   be
incremental and project management authorities and
processes  have   been   strengthened   to  support
implementation  at  both   the  central  and  state
levels. Procedures for implementing civil works,
in particular, incorporate a two-year cycle to
support both preparation and implementation, and
works would be managed mainly by experienced semi-
autonomous entities and executed by contracted
firms or individuals.    To  reduce  a related risk
that cost-sharing by the municipalities may not be
achieved, targets are conservatively estimated.



- vi -
Estimated Costssl/ 2/
Local      Foreign        Total
------- USS Millions -
Policy Component
Teache- Salaries and Incentives      34.0          -           34.0
Studies                               0.1          -            0.1
Subtotal                       34.1          -           34.1
Management Development Component
Staff Training and Technical          1.1          0.1          1.2
Assistance
Studies                               1.1          0.0           1.1
Subtotal                        2.2          0.1          2.3
Primary Education Development
Component
Materials                            11.7          3.9          15.6
Teacher Training                      2.2          0.1           2.3
Furniture                            40.6          5.0          45.6
Classroom Upgrading                  31.2         10.4          41.6
Studies and Testing                   2.5          0.1          2.6
Subtotal                       88.2         19.5        107.7
Total Base Cost                        124.5         19.6         144.1
Physical Contingencies                    5.0         0.8           5.8
Price Escalation                        16.7          2.6          19.3
Total Project Cost                  146.2         23.0        169.2
1/ Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
2/ Figures rounded.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign        Total
-------- US$ Millions --------
Central Government             56.6                      56.6
Departments                     2.5                       2.5
Municipalities                 10.1          -           10.1
Bank                           77.0         23.0        100.0
Total                         146.Z         23.0        169.2



- vii -
Disburmemnt Plan:
BANK FISCAL YEAR
1989  1990   1991  1992   1993  1994  1995  1996
_--------------------- US$ millions ----------
Annual    2.0   5.0   11.0  15.0   17.0  21.0  19.0   10.0
Cumulative    2.0   7.0   18.0  33.0   50.0  71.0  90.0  100.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         not applicable
maps                IBRD 21089



COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
Achievements
1.1      Over the past 25 years, Colombila's education system expanded
dramatically at all levels, and within the public and private sectors.
While a third of children lacked access to primary education in 1960, the
corresponding figure today is about lOX. During the same period, primary
enrollments more than doubled, secondary enrollments increased six-fold and
higher education enrollments rose 15 times. Private education, offered
mainly in urban localities, currently accounts for 152 of primary
enrollments, 401 of secondary enrollments and 60? of higher education
enrollments.
1.2      Primiry education (covering only grades 1-5 in Colombia) enrolls
four million students (almost equally divided between males and females).
Some 652 of those enrolled are in urban areas and the remainder are in
rural areas. Over lSO,OO0 teachers, 80X meeting National Ministry of
Education (MEN) standards, are employed in primary schools. About 802 of
the relevant cohort, children aged 7-11 is currently enrolled in the
system; however, this ratio is 702 in rural areas and as low as 60Z in some
regions.
1.3      Secondary education (comprising lower secondary, grades 6-8 and
upper secondary, grades 9-11) enrolls 2.1 million students, about 502 of
youth in the post-primary age group, and employs 100,000 teachers. Rapid
growth in the number of graduates from primary education has stimulated
social pressure to expavd secondary education, which at present is
concentrated in urban P.reas (accounting for 922 of enrollments). Secondary
technical education In relatively limited and comparatively costly in
Colombia. It is concentrated in diversified secondary schools (INEMs)
offering academic and pre-vocational streams at the upper secondary level.
Outside the formal sector, the national vocational training system (SENA)
is widely supported and has proved effective in training young workers.
1.4      Higher education serves an enrollment of some 400,000 students,
150.000 in public universities. The social sciences account for most of
the recent increase in enrollmeiits; courses of study and graduate research
in science and technology, inzluding management, are relatively weak.
Although expansion of higher education has taken place with the active
participation of the private sector, relatively high unit costs (over 11
times those for primary education) significantly increased the share of
public educational expenditure allocated for this level since the mid-
19608.



- 2 -
1.5      Economic performance of the education system has been
satisfactory. Social and private returns to education, estimated during
the 1960* and 1370s, showed relatively high rates for primary and secondary
education and lower rates for higher education. More recent estimates show
more uniform returns among the three levels (Annex 2). Rates of return to
vocational education have been especially high and are consistent with
secular increases in demand for employable skills.
1.6      The significant expansion of enrollments, especially at the
primary level, has depended largely on increased public resources. Real
public expenditure on education more than doubled since 1970 and
constituted about 20Z of the national budget (30X of all national recurrent
expenditures and 5? of the investment budget) in the mid-1980s. Public
education expenditure absorbed about 32 of GDP annually over the past 10
years, a share lower than average for countries at similar levels of
development. However, private expenditure, accounting for another 1.5Z to
2? of GNP, raises the total to the relevant international level.
Selected Issues
1.7      Despite the significant expansion of educational coverage achieved
during the past two and a half decades, the basic education system (primary
and lower secondary education) in Colombia continues to face several
obstacles. In practice, policies for the use and mobilization of resources.
conflict with priority objectives for achieving quality improvements and
further gains in coverage in basic education; and the policy shortcomings
are heightened by weaknesses in management at all administrative levels.
Resource Use and Mobilization Policies (Annex 3)
1.8      Policies for the use of public resources for education reinforce
an excessive share for personnel-related expenditures, a high cost per
graduate, and w related shortfall in investment resources available for
basic educatiot   Personnel expenditures account for 992 of recurrent
expenditures or .ublic primary and secondary education. The heavy focus on
teacher-related expenditures has severely curtailed expenditures on other
quality inputs, including the supply and replacement of materials,
facilities' maintenance and school and teacher supervision. Inefficiencies
in the appointment and deployment of teachers, resulting in a low average
student-teacher ratio in urban areas, largely explain this high
concentration. To illustrate the problem, the National Planning Department
(DNP) notes that an increase as high as a third (from about 30 to 40
students per teacher) would be educationelly acceptable and would yield a
surplus of urban teachers on the order of 12,000. By contrast, the current
student-teacher ratio in rural areas (nearly 50) is appropriate in view of
low population density and results in a shortfall of some 5,000 teachers.
In addition, nearly nine years of schooling, rather than the five planned,
are required per primary school graduate, mainly as a result of patterns of
student repetition (30? per year throughout the primary cycle) and dropout
(15? per year in the first four grades). The actual cost per graduate
exceeds the nominal cost for the five year cycle (at about US$500) by some
80?. The inefficiencies in use of resources for recurrent expenditures
have contributed to an inadequate level and declining share for sector
invest.ment in public education expenditures since the mid-1970s.
Systematic investment programming, required to achieve quality and further
coverage gains in basic educatior, has also been lack4na.



-3-
1.9      Policies for resource mobilization and ailocation reinforce an
over-concentration of publlc financing at the central level and a
comparatively high share for higber education at the epense of primary and
secondary education. (At the tortiary level, studets in public
universities are highly subsidled, at a level of 952 of costs. The
subsidies further tend to be regressive, benefitting mainly students from
middle and higher income brackets). Until the aid-1970s, departmntal
contributions were significant at the primary and secondary levels.
However, econoaic string*ncies and a lack of fiscal and institutional
mechanisms and incentives reduced this source of finance in the following
decade. In recent years, about 972 of public financing for privmry
education was provided by the central Government, compared with 722 in
1975. During the period 1965-1984, the share of central Government
resources allocated for recurrent expenditures for education rmained
relatively constant for primary education, at about 45?, while the share
for higher education increased from 5? to 21?. For the more recent period,
1982-1987, the share of total public expenditures for education (investment
and recurrent) allocated by the central Government for primary and
secondary educAtion, together, declined from about 752 to 702, the share
for higher education remained constant at atout 201 and the share for other
educational activities incr'- _e frow 5? to 10Z.  In terms of public
investment in education, primary, secondary a.nd higher education each
received about 202 of central Government resources allocated for education
over the name period, 1982-87.
1.10     To ensure public resources availability for basic educatJon of
reasonable quality, financing and allocation policies require
reorientation. A reversal of the recent trend towards declining resource
shares for basic education is needed together with increased capital
expenditure. Wthin public resources available, an effort to direct a
marginally higher share to non-salary expenditures is also needed for
primary and secondary education, and could be achieved in part through
improvements in teacher use. Further, additional resources need to be
mobilized for basic, as well as higher education. To reduce the burden on
the central Government for primary education, the renewed mobilization of
local resources is required. A new law (Ley 12 of 1986), which would raise
from 302 to 50? the municipal share of proceeds from a national value added
tax during the period 1985-1992, is designed in part to stimulate local
contributions to social services financing, including investments in
education. As regards higher education, potential exists for mobilizing
additional private resources and expanding student credit to reduce the
level of direct government subsidies and to improve equality of access.
Sector Management (Annex 4)
1.11     Educational Management.  The structure for educational management
comprises the central MEN, Departmental Secretariats of Education and
District Offices. The MEN is officially charged with system guidance and
orientation, and overall management and evaluation. It comprises two
p:incipal Directorates, one for educational development and training, and
one for administration and supervision. These units are supported by a
recently strengthened office for planning (OSPE). In practice, the
technical support function of the MEN is weak, and direct responsibility
for educational management, excluding higher education which is autonouious,
is overly concentrated at this level. The Ministry is burdened with many
local management responsibilities, including direct management of some



- 4 -
1,000 secondary schools, which could be more efficiently handled by
departmental authorities. Moreover, the division of responsibilities
between the two main directorates lacks clarity and results in some
duplication of effort (e.g., in the areas of curriculum development,
teacher training and teacher supervision) while other needs (e.g., for
regional support and coordination, management of the teaching profession)
are not addressed systematically under the present structure.
1.12     The departmental (or regional) structure for management parallels
that of the MEN, with offices for educational development, administration
and planning within Secretariats of Education. The Secretariats are
directly responsible for regional planning and program coordination.
However, they generally suffer from a shortage of qualified personnel. A
tradition of preparation of educational planners and administrators is
lacking though university programs are currently available in these fields.
A related problem at the departmental level is high turnover of key
personnel, including Secretaries of Education who are appointed by
department governors. Below the- department level, the structure of the
education system is still evolving. In the early 1980s, a plan for
creating school districts was introduced, but the process is not yet
complete. It is estimated that 60? of the country is covered by the
program and the role of the district officer is still subject to regional
variations. With few exceptions, the Secretariats and sub-departmental
staff in education lack adequate technical capacity to develop and
implement medium-term plans and programs, and related support from the MEN
is insufficient.
1.13     The continuing high degree of centralization in sector management
derives largely from historical weaknesses in management capacity at lower
administrative levels. However, the rapid expansion of services since the
19609 has reduced the feasibility and efficiency of centralized management.
The Government has thus introduced a gradual process of decentralization.
To support this process, the policy management and technical support
functions of the MEN would be strengthened. The planned introduction of a
new regional management information system, the SIED, and a modest
restructuring of the MEN, approved by the Congress in early 1988, would
serve as complementary inputs. Key features of the reorganization are the
clear separation of educational and administrative management functions;
the abolition of central responsibilities for direct administration of
secondary schools and for school construction (previously the
responsibility of the semi-autonomous Colombian Institute for School
Construction, ICCE); and the establishment of neT divisions for the
development of the teaching profession and for support and coordination for
the regions. At the department and district levels, the pool of
educational and resource management skills also needs to be strengthened to
increase the effectiveness of planning and program implementation.
1.14     Financial Management.  At the central level, routine expenditures
and transfers to the departments are managed through the regular MEN
structure. A separate fund, FONDO/MEN, is responsible for financial
management and control of development projects. It was established to
e-nedite project financing outside regular MEN channels. However,
insufficient expertise in critical areas (e.g., financial planning,
accounting, and reporting) has reduced the potential effectiveness of this
mechanism to date. At the departmental level, both routine (mainly central



payroll transfers) and investment (mainly FONDO/MHN transfers) resources
for public education are managed separately from the administration of
*ducational services through special funds, me.  The *ffectiveness of
financial mnagement and control exercised by the FRs, created in 1968, is
mixed. In all cases, efforts recently initiated by the Government to
inerease mmicipal contributions to the financing of education will
increase the workloads of the mlRs.
1.15     Traditional programaing and budgeting practices, set at the
central level, contribute to inefficiency in resources management for
education. Within each fiscal year, allocations for education made by the
Ministry of Finance (recurrent) and the DNP (investment) often fall short
of approved and budgeted levels. As much as 502 of the expected budget is
commonly retained as a supplement which must be further negotiated. In
practice, MEN is often targeted for non-salary cuts when other priorities
emerge in the recurrent budget of the M0F. Equally problematic, late
authorizations and cumbersome procedures for transfers create obstacles to
timely implementation of programs and may result in underexpenditure of
funds allocated. The lack of certainty and the time expended negotiating
detract from effective planning and forecasting for the sector.
Improvements in both financial control and budgeting need to be pursued
both within the sector and more broadly.
Primary Education
1.16     Low Student Achievement.  At both the primary and secondary
levels, average student achievement is low. At present, no nationwide test
results exist to offer as evidence of a lack of learning. However, poor
performance of students in some regions, indicated by less than 40Z of
expected scores on secondary and university admissions tests, serve as
proxies and suggest that many students are not learning adequately the
basics of reading, writing and mathematics in the primary grades, or
mathematics and science in the secondary grades. The relatively high grade
repetition, as well as student dropout (para. 1.8), also indicate quality
problems. Dropout is often a temporary phenomenon in Colombia (many
students who leave school during the year re-enroll in the same grade the
following year), attributable to non-school causes. Included are
conditions of poverty and the need for children to work on the farms or in
the household, illness and migration. However, factors related to
schooling also apply: traditional curricula, rigid promotion standards,
and lack of community involvement in school affairs.
1.17     Chief among school-related determinants of poor quality in primary
education has been a shortage of textbooks and other learning materials in
classrooms. Colombia manufactures excellent textbooks; however, the cost
of acquiring them has been borne mainly by students' families. As a
result, textbooks have been virtually non-existent in traditional primary
schools in rural and poorer urban areas. Since the early 1980., a revised
government practice, to provide textbooks free of charge for use by primary
school students, has been introduced and is improving the situation.
Inadequate teacher preparation has also reduced student achievemert. While
only 20 percent of primary school teachers have less than the prescribed
amount of training, the quality of preservice teacher training in normal
schools is highly variable. Absenteeism among students and teachers,
holidays, and teachers' strikes drastically reduce the number of days in
the school calendar and further erode the quality of education.



1.18     An ongoing project assisted by the Bank (the Subsector Project for
Rural Basic Education, Loan 2192-CO) supports the introduction of a revised
rural curriculum for the primary grades, the Escuela Nueva, first
introduced in the mid-1970s. I includes provision of student and teacher
materials, school libraries and inservice training and follow-up for
teachers. The Escuela Nueva is a well-tested program for delivering basic
educational services (Annex 5). It was developed on the basis of
principles of multigrade teaching in small (one to two classroom) rural
schools. It comprises a semi-programmed learning package which enables
children to progress individually or in small groups, and teachers to cater
for different learning or even grade levels in the same classroom. An
important objective is to provide the full primary cycle in rural areas,
including in small schools, as necessary. The curriculum incorporates
flexible promotion practices which are based on mastery of prescribed sets
of skills and permit grade promotion throughout the school year. The
Escuela Nueva was used in full or part in about half of the 25.700 rural
gvverrnment schools by late 1987. Sustained evaluation of the Escuela Nueva
demonstrates that it is a viable program for providing the full primary
cycle in rural areas. Moreover, results of a 1987 assessment confirm that
student achievement in Spanish and mathematics is higher, and repetition
rates lower (by 10), for Escuela Nueva students than for students
attending traditional, rural primary schools.   This model also encourages
parents' interest in, and support for, school programs.  Community
participation in the maintenance and upgrading of schools is common. To
further improve quality and redress equity problems in primary education,
the use of the Escuela Nueva should be broadened. Materials and teacher
upgrading are also needed in public primary schools in urban areas to
support a revised curriculum in use since the mid-1980s; and systematic
evaluation and testing of student achievement need to be introduced at the
primary level.
1.19     Unequal Access.  Although enrollments have increased, some 52
of the urban population cohort and as much as 30X of the rural cohort
reaching school age still do not have ready access to primary schooling.
Substantial variations remain in access among the departments, with
participation rates for children aged 7-11 ranging from 602 to 901. These
differences are explained largely by variations in levels of urbanization
and availability of teachers. On average, for example, the student-teacher
ratio is 29, with a departmental range of 23 to 37. In rural areas, this
ratio is 28. Past policy to allow teachers to transfer easily, primarily
from rural to urban posts, has resulted in a shortage of teachers in some
rural areas and in underutilization of teachers in urban areas (para. 1.8).
In many rural and marginal urban areas, school facilities in poor condition
and a lack of furniture contribute to problems of access.
1.20     The population density of each department and the geographical
extension of school catchment areas also have an impact on access to
primary schools. Low concentration of the population in many rural areas
is associated with incomplete schools, i.e., those unable to offer the full
five-year cycle. This condition creates barriers to the completion of the
primary cycle by rural students. Of rural students entering grade one,
only 202 complete grade five (compared with 6O0 of urban students), and of
these, only a quarter continues to secondary education. As Government



- 7 -
nears its objective to provide universal primary education, it vill need to
initiate measures to provide the full primary cycle in all rural 3chools.
The Escuela Nueva is well-designed to meet this need. The Government will
also need to encourage the timely enrollment of children aged 6-7 in grade
one and to reduce repetition in an effort to improve coverage and gradually
reduce the number of over-aged children in the system. Further measures,
to provide opportunities for rural students to obtain some schooling beyond
the primary level, will be required over the next decade -- to meet both
social and economic demand. In line with these needs, development of an
efficient system of basic education, which incorporates the primary and
lower secondary cycles (i.e., grades 6 to 8) is being considered.    ,.
Additional analysis and policy decisions will also be required to determine
a cost-effective means for expanding secondary education more generally,
and an appropriate mix of academic, pre-vocational, and vocational training
at the upper secondary level.
Government Strategy
1.21     Thq expansion and improvement of education and other basic social
services are high priorities for social and economic development in
Colombia. The current Government, which assumed power in September 1986,
has stated in its National Rehabilitation and Poverty Eradication Programs
that the main objectives for development are stabilization of the domestic
environment and reduction of poverty. The broad strategy for achieving
these objectives rests on increasing the productivity of the poor through
improvements in basic services, including education. Decentralization of
responsibility, accompanied by administrative and financial strengthening
of the municipalities is a corollary priority, embodied in part in
implementation of Lev 12 (para. 1.10). To ensure continued economic
recovery, priority is also given to the efficient use of resources and the
mobilization of additional private resources for education.
1.22     The Government's most recent development plan, published by the
DNP in September 1987, presents educational policies and strategies. These
incorporate results and recommendations of recent sector analysis carried
out jointly by the Bank and Government and documented in a sector
memorandum ("Education Sector Finance and Efficiency', Report No. 6857-CO
of April 1987). Highest priority is assigned to raising the overall
quality of primary education and improving access to enable all children
reaching school age to enroll. This priority is reflected in a six-year
investment program prepared by the Government for primary education.
Emphasis is given to expanding coverage in rural and marginal urban areas.
Drawing on its successful experience with the Escuela Nueva (para. 1.18),
the Government plans to extend this program to all rural schools. Other
immediate objectives include improving the efficiency of resource use for
primary education; encouraging resource mobilization for the sector at
local levels and in the private sector; and improving management throughout
the education sector. over the medium- to longer terms, the Government
also plans to extent basic education to eight grades and to assess the role
for upper secondary education with a view to reorier.ting vocational courses
to meet needs of school leavers.



-8-
Bank Strategy
1.23    -The Bank's country lending strategy is oriented towards assisting
the Government to increase the volume and efficiency of investments in tgie
social sectors. The strategy rests on maintaining the level of public
investment and related recurrent expenditures within a viable fiscal and
macroeconomic framework. The Lank's sector work and lending are also
designed to address poverty issues and sector-specific issues of cost
recovery, the balance between public and private sector participation and
between recurrent and capital expenditures, and the composition of
recurrent expenditures. The Bank's efforts in the education sector are
designed to support these tasks. They will focus on development of
effective sectoral allocation and administration mechanisms at central and
local levels, resolution of institutional rigidities, and better definition
of the role of the public sector in education finance. The proposed
subsector project would contribute substantially to these tasks through a
focus on sector financing and resource use policies and on the upgrading of
primary education, particularly for rural and underserved urban population
groups. Experiments to extend the primary cycle in rural areas would also
be included. The project would build upon the achievements and experience
gained under the ongoing Subsector Project for Rural Basic Education and
would complement Bank operations in the areas of basic health, rural water
supply and municipal development.
1.24     Beyond the proposed project, elements of the Bank's medium-term
strategy for the education sector relate to extension of basic education
through the lower secondary cycle and selective improvements for upper
secondary education. Needs for reorienting technical education and
training, including management and finance of higher education, will also
be assesseed.
1.25     The Bank has previously supported four education projects in
Colombia with loans &aounting to US$50.3 million. Loan 552-CO of 1968, for
US$7.6 million,-supported the first phase of development of diversified
secondary education. Loan 679-CO of 1970, for US$6.5 million, assisted with
the second phase project for diversified secondary education. Loan 920-CO
of 1973, for US$21.2 million, provided for common facility centers for
secondary education. These three projects, which supported the
introduction of vocational streams into upper secondary education at
government schools, have been completed. The first two each suffered
delays of about two years due largely to difficulties with equipment
procurement but were otherwise satisfactorily executed. The third project
was delayed by about four years due to changes in Government's educational
priorities, periodic shortages of counterpart funds, and weak project
management. The diversified education provided through these projects has
been evaluated by the Bank. Educationally, the programs have been
successful and in high demand. However, the diversified model has proved
costly and, in a period of rapid expansion of higher education, has
generally been used as a stepping stone to higher education rather than as
a direct route to employment.
1.26     The fourth loan, 2192-CO of 1982 for US$15.0 million, reflects
more recent government priorities. It supports the Subsector Project for



- 9 -
Rural Primary Education, which represents the pilot phase of the proposed
project and the Gvernment's planned investment program for primary
education. This project, scheduled for completion during 1988, suffered
considerable start-up delay owing in large measure to.underestimation of
the management load and a highly decentralized management structure.  In
the past three years the difficulties have been overcome through a major
strengthening of central project management and direct implementation
responsibilities, as well as a simplification of the management structure
(Annex 7, attachment). As the project nears completion, the main targets
for physical inputs to support the Escuela Nueva have been met or exceeded
at costs in line with appraisal estimates. The needs for adapting project
management responsibilities and procedures to implementation capacities at
the various administrative levels; for selecting experienced project
managers, especially for financial management and control at the central
level; and for clarifying responsibilities and keeping implementation
processes simple and consonant with existing structures have been been duly
considered in design of the proposed project.
II   THE PROJECT
Pro1ect Origin
2.1      The proposed subsector project was prepared by the MEN in
collaboration with the DNP and the Bank. The Colombian Institute for the
Developisent of Higher Education, ICFES, also contributed to the proposals
for studies on the financing of higher education included in the project.
Preparation was carried out during November 1986 to December 1987.
Appraisal was completed in February 1988. Negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. during October 11-14, 1988. At negotiations, the
government delegation was headed by Ms. Silvia Escovar, Chief of the
Project Monitoring aad Evaluation System, DNP.
Proiect Obiectives and Content
2.2      The proposed project aims to strengthen resource management and
mobilization in the education sector, and to raise the quality of primary
education while expanding access to all school-aged children. It includes
three components: a policy component; a management development component;
and a subsector development component for primary education. The policy
component is supported by a letter of subsector policy of October 7, 1988,
signed by the Minister of Education, and a related plan of action (Annex 6,
Attachment 1). The project incorporates the expenditure focus of the
Government's six-year investment program for primary education, planned for
the period 1989-1994.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.3      The proposed project forms an integral part of the Bank's overall
country and education sector strategies. It supports the planned shift in
investment priorities towards the social sectors and addresses key sector
issues of recurrent expenditure composition, and resource mobilization and
allocation through a focus on primary education. The Bank's involvement in
sector work, project identification and preparation has been essential to
project design. Continued Bank involvement will be a significant factor in



- 10 -
implementing and further developing policy measures designed to improve the
efficiency of resource use and maximize resource mobilization potential for
the education sector broadly.
Project Components (Annex 6)
Resource Use and Mobilization Policy Component (proposed outlay,
$38.5 million including contingencies)
2.4      Recurrent Expenditure Composition and Teacher Use Policy.  The
Government has adopted policies to curtail the establishment of new
teaching posts (both permanent and temporary), and to improve the
efficiency of use of existing teachers while meeting the current rural
deficit (para. 1.8). Teacher transfers from rural to urban areas would
also be carefully monitored and limited. In urban areas with excess
teacher supply, tentatively defined as student-teacher ratios below 35,
posts vacated by regular retirement, estimated at about 1,000 annually,
(exclusive of voluntary departures) would be shifted to rural (5,000) and
gradual.y marginal urban areas (up to 3,000) where teachers are in short
supply. The posts relocated to rural areas would be filled from a pool of
temporary teachers hired by the central Government since the early 1980s on
ten-month contracts. The project would finance the contract salaries of
these teachers, which would decline in number from 2,500 in 1989 to 500 in
1994 (a total of 8,500 contracts during the six-year period), as the
transfer process reaches completion. To retain these and other teachers in
remote rural areas, the project would also initiate and finance special
incentives: during 1992-1996, up to 2,000 rural teachers would be offered
housing loans (a lack of adeq",te housing has been a major obscacle to
teacher transfers), and teachers serving in remote areas would also be
offered a family health insurance system. Other incentives, already in
place, include bonuses, early promotion and retirement plans, and training
opportunities. Project financing for the salaries and incentives would
amount to some US$5.7 million annually, on average. It contrasts with the
total cost of establishing and filling 5,000 new rural posts (including
non-salary benefits) at about US$20 million annually. The potential
savings from use of the teacher transfer and incentive mechanisms would be
roughly equivalent to twice the minimum requirements for non-personnel
recurrent expenditures on primary education. These costs are estimateA to
reach US$7 million by 1993 -- a targetted 32 of recurrent expenditure for
primary education (compared to the present 12).
2.5      Expenditure per Primary School Graduate and Promotion Policy.  The
Government has adopted a revised promotion policy to reduce repetition and
dropout at the primary level. Students would progress from unit to unit on
the basis of mastery of core skills rather than end of year assessments.
The revised practices (already incorporated in the Escuela Nueva program)
are being introduced throughout the primary system during the 1988-89
school year.  It is expected that the average number of years of schooling
required per graduate would decline from the current 8.9 to about 6.5 by
1993, with a corresponding savings in cost per graduate.
2.6      Investment Expenditure and Programming Policy.  The preparation of
the six-year investment program for primary education reflects the
Government's policy to increase investment in the subsector.  The total
direct investment at the school level is estimated at about US$108 million
(mid-1988 prices) by Government during 1989-94. In line with priorities,



- 11 -
about 75Z of investment capital would be allocated for rural, and 25Z for
marginal urban schools. The level of capital expenditure planned would
raise the share for primary education in public capital expenditure on
education from about 20 at present to about 35? during 1988-94 (the
increase would be balanced mainly by a temporary decrease in the share for
secondary education over the period). The investment program would roughly
double recent capital expenditure for primary education on an average
annual basis over the period (Annex 8, Table 1), and would be sufficient to
provide student and teachers' materials for all primary schools lacking
these items, and to complete the basic furnishing of all rural and the
majority of needy urban schools. It would not be sufficient to meet all
current needs for the upgrading of school plants. The backlog for repair
and upgrading of school facilities has been determined through an inventory
carried out in 1987 by the municipalities and departments, and verified by
the MEN on the basis of minimum standards. For facilities upgrading, the
MEN has thus adopted investment criteria which would direct investment only
to rural schools, with the larger share of new capital spending for poorer
localities. Departments have been divided into two main groups based
primarily on indicators of income (reflecting capacity to invest additional
local capital resources), and on the analysis of upgrading needs. Within
the limits of proposed capital finance, it is estimated that about 552 of
defined needs for facilities upgrading could be met in poorer departments
and about 25? in higher income departments.
2.7      Central-Regional Cost-Sharing and Resource Mobilization Policy.
The Government has also adopted a policy to encourage and increase local
contributions to the financing of primary education under the investment
program. Ley 12 of 1986 transfers administrative responsibility for civil
works in the social sectors to the municipalities, as well as the increased
share of revenues from the value-added tax (para. 1.10). On this basis,
municipalities would be expected to contribute about 20Z of the value of
facilities upgrading to be included under the investment program, with a
range of 101-SOZ depending on total municipal revenues. In addition, the
departments would be expected to contribute 5Z of the total costs of
planned facilities upgrading. This level of cost-sharing would raise non-
central contributions to school investments from about 3Z at present to
about lOZ during project implementation. In the interests of mobilizing
additional resources, municipalities would be encouraged to exceed
respective targets. In view of competing claims on IVA and other municipal
resources, however, the targeta for local cost-sharing are conservatively
estimated (at less than 1OZ of planned IVA increments). They would be
confirmed or adjusted as reasonable during annual review of project
implementation progress. The component would also include studies to
support the formulation of future policy for the financing of higher
education. Emphasis would be given to review of alternatives for reducing
direct government subsidies at this level and expanding student credit.
Draft terms of reference for the studies were reviewed at negotiations and
are acceptable. They will be further elaborated during project
implementation.
Management Development Component (proposed outlay, $2.8 million)
2.8      To strengthen decentralized policy and program implementation for
basic education, the project includes support for selected improvements in
management. The component builds on the restructuring of the MEN currently
underway (described in para. 1.13 and Annex 4). Consultant services and
staff training would be provided to improve the technical support
capability of the MEN and the implementation support services of the



- 12 -
regional SecretRriats of Education. Specifically, the component would aim
too introduce fully the key elements of the new MEN information system, the
SIED, to improve planning: develop budgeting and financial management
capacity within the MEN system; and improve local implementatior. capacity.
The component would also include financing for selected sector studies and
the preparation of future education projects. These would be managed by a
working level committee comprising DNP and MEN representatives. Terms of
reference for proposed studies would be developed in consultation with the
Bank.
2.9      The SIED.  The project would support the full introduction of
planning and project management subsystems of the SIED. The OSPE has
already introduced parts of the planning subsystem, including the
facilities inventories (para. 2.6), socio-economic data and budget and cost
information for the regions. To these would be added data for monitoring
sector policies and educational achievement. The National Executive
Secretariat (NES), responsible for coordinating the project, is currently
developing a project management subsystem. .t would incorporate
information needed to monitor budget, expenditure, and physical, policy and
institutional development targets under the proposed project.  To complete
the design and introduction of these subsystems, and to strengthen MEN and
regional capabilities to atalyze and apply information for medium-term
planning, the project would finance consultant services (10 staff-years
local) and training and technical follow-up for some 90 regional planning
staff (amounting to about 360 staff-weeks of local trainivg). During
negotiations, the Government agreed that the planning and project
management subsystems of the SIED would be introduced by December 31, 1989.
2.10     Budgeting and Financial Management.  MEN programming and budgeting
practices would be strengthened under the project to reinforce multi-year
planning objectives (a four-year rolling plan mechanism is in place) and to
minimize disruptions resulting from the complex national budgeting process.
A manual on MEN programming and budgeting procedures was completed in April
1988 by a long-term advisor to the director of the FONDO/MEN, retained in
early 1988. Staff training in use of these procedures, to be reinforced by
technical follow-up, would be provided to expedite the budget process and
related problem resolution. In addition, an improved system of accounts
(financed under Loan 2192-CO) has been introduced for projects and programs
managed by the FONDO/MEN. The system incorporates new procedures for
financial management of projects, including procedures for the FERs and for
municipalities participating in school upgrading. The project would
include financing for training for the relevant central and regional staff
(about 200) in budget and expenditure management and in financial control
and accounting (about 800 staff-weeks, local).
2.11     Project and Program Implementation.  The project would assist the
regions to build project and program execution capabilities. Technical
support to be provided wou'd be designed to meet specific regional needs
under the proposed project. However, the aim would be to institutionalize
long-term improvements. Financing would be provided for advisory services
to the departments involving visits by MEN staff including 11 NES staff
regularly assigned to this task (70 staff-years), and for training for
regional staff (about 550 staff-weeks local) and for supporting materials.
In addition, staff of the NES, FONDO/MEN and other central entities would
receive selective upgrading in project management skills (30 staff-weeks



_ 13 -
Primary Education Development Component (proposed outlay, $127.9
million)
2.12     This component comprises the bulk of the investment program for
primary education. It is designed to raise the overall quality of primary
education and to improve access to the full primary cycle for children in
rural and marginal urban settings. It centers on the provision of school
inputs (i.e., materials, teacher training, furniture and facilities
upgrading) to support the expansion of the Escuela Nueva to all rural
primary schools. It includes the provision of materials and teacher
training for disadvantaged urban primary schools.  The component further
includes the introduction of systematic evaluation of student achievement
at the primary level and experiments and a study related to the future
extension of basic education beyond grade five.
2.13     Improving Educational Quality.  To improve the quality of rural
primary education, the project would introduce (or complete introduction
of) the Escuela Nueva in rural schools enrolling about 800,000 children.
Student learning guides, teachers' manuals, and.school libraries,
specifically designed to support the Escuela Nueva curriculum, would be
provided for about 4,000 schools not yet served. The student materials
comprise one to three guides per major subject area per grade. In
accordance with government textbook policy, each set of materials would be
used by two students. The libraries contain about one hundred volumes,
mainly reference materials, for school as well as community use. Based on
average school sizf and requirements for replacement of Escuela Nueva
materials excluding libraries (once each four years), the project would
provide financing for replacement student and teaching materials for 25,000
schools. In addition, inservice training would be included under the
project to orient existing teachers towards the introduction of the Escuela
Nueva curric-ilum. The training, carried out in workshops totalling three
weeks' time, covers orientation to the Escuela Nueva and the revised
promotion practices; use and preparation of materials; and student
assessment and evaluation. It would be complemented through regular
follow-up and support provided in small group workshops conducted at
demonstration schools (some 2,800 have been designated). Initial training
is scheduled to coincide with delivery of school materials. The project
includes financing for the in-service training for about 20,000 rural
teachers (including updated training for some teachers trained ear'ier in
Escuela Nueva methods).
2.14     Textbooks, classroom materials, and related teacher training for
public primary schools in margina. urban areas would also be provided under
the project for schools lacking materials. Both are designed to support a
revised urban curriculum introduced in the mid-1980s. Like the Escuela
Nueva, this program permits students to progress on a continuous basis and
is well-suited to the revised promotion policy. The in-service training
covers the use of the textbooks, the introduction of the revised promotion
policy and student assessment. Financing would be provided for some 3.3
million textbooks, training for about 6,500 teachers and for the materials
for some 30,000 classrooms.
2.15     To monitor and ensure quality gains in primary education,
systematic educational testing would be introduced under the project.



- 14 _
and students. Gradually, testing would be extended to cover the entire
school-aged population at key points in the school cycle. The pilot
testing program contains three main parts: teacher administered tests for
students in each primary grade in mathematics, reading and writing (400
schools in eight regions); supervisor administered tests in the same
subjects and schools, to be used to verify and control the quality of the
testing program; and externally administered tests in grades 4 and 5 for
30,000 students nationwide. The examinations would be developed and tested
by 1989, adjusted during 1990 and 1991 and introduced on a permanent basis
beginning in late 1991. Results of the tests would be used to identify
problems such as poorly performing departments, to assist teachers to
orient methods and emphasis towards students' learning needs, and to
identify requirements for improving teacher quality, curricula or
materials. Analysis of achievement through the testing program would 1be
merged with analysis of non-school determinants of student performance.
Related base data would be made available through the SIED. Examination
results would also serve as baseline data for time-series studies on
improvements in educational standards. The in-service training to be
provided for teachers (both urban and rural) would include an orientation
to the testing program. During negotiations the Government agreed to
extend, on a national scale, the system for evaluating student achievement
in primary education by December 31, 1991, and to apply results to improve
achievement.
2.16     Improving Access.  The project would aim to ra'se the
participation rate of rural, school-aged children from 70? to a targetted
90? and the completion rate of these children from 20? to about 60Z. This
would be achieved by encouraging the timely enrollment of children entering
school (i.e., those aged 7) through regular MEN information campaigns;
assuring increased access for rural children to the full primary cycle
through the widespread use of the Escuela Nueva (including use of
multigrade teaching techniques, where needed); and introducing the new
promotion practices. Achievement of the targetted increase in the net
enrollment ratio in rural areas would correspond with an increase in the
number of children enrolled in rural schools of some 300,000 (or, about 20?
of current enrollments). However, it is expected that this increase would
be largely offset as a result of the new promotion policy, which would
decrease the level of student repetition, and the revised policy for
student intake. In urban areas, experiments with community involvement in
school management, at about 250 project schools in marginal areas, would be
supported by the project in an effort to improve participation.
2.17     To assist in reaching the rural participation and completion
targets, as well as to contribute to quality gains, the project would
provide basic furniture (teacher and student desks and chairs) for about
13,000 unfurnished or partially unfurnished rural schools and for the
replacement or rehabilitation of dilapidated classrooms. Central
investment allocations, which would not cover all needs, w:!uld give
priority to comparatively disadvantaged regions and schools (para. 2.6), on
a cost-shar4ng basis with the departments and municipalities (para. 2.7).
The project includes financing for the school furniture and for the
replacement of classrooms at 3,600 rural schools (about 1.6 classrooms per
school) and upgrading of classrooms at about 700 rural schools (water
supply and sanitary facilities would be included where lacking). F'nancing
is also included for basic school furniture for about 2,100 disadvantaged



- 15 -
2.18     Extending Basic Education in Rural Areas.  The project includes an
experimental component which will test delivery systems for providing
education beyond grade 5 for rural youth. Earlier experiments, which
required transporting students to centers of higher population density,
have proved costly and ineffective: a recent assessment suggests that most
rural students in the upper grades of basic education contribute to family
income and cannot attend school outside the community. This subcomponent
would thus experiment with extending the Escuela Nueva model through grades
7 or 8, using exssting primary schools. Alternatives to be assessed
include incorporation of the additional grades into the regular school day
and use of teacher-tutors after school hours and on weekends. Distance
learning techniques, using radio materials, would also be tested. The
experiments would be mounted in eight districts. Financing would be
provided for the preparation of materials, training for teachers, program
delivery and evaluation. The project would also finance a MEN study to
assess requirements and financing prospects for the broader expansion of
lower secondary education and a selective expansion of general upper
secondary education. Draft terms of reference for this study were reviewed
with the Bank during negotiations and judged to be satisfactory.
Implementation Arrangements
2.19     Project Management Responsibill:ies (Annex 7).  Crerall authority
for management of the subsector investment program would be vested in the
Vice-Minister of Education, responsible for the National Program for
Primary Education. At the policy level, the Vice-Minister would be
supported by a national coordinating committee. This committee, also
responsible for allocating investment resources, is chaired by the Vice-
Minister, and includes the Director of the National Executive Secretariat,
the central management t-mit for the project, and representatives of the MEN
and DNP units involved with primary education. Day-to-day planning,
monitoring and evaluation for the project would be provided through the
NES, drawing on the relevant MEN units (see chart attached to Annex 7).
The PONDO/MEN would be responsible for financial management and control
under the project and the central MEN, through the NES, would manage
directly the implementation of the policy and management development
components, and procurement of materials and furniture. The central
management structure would be largely replicated at the department level,
with the departmental Secretariats of Education fulfilling the role of the
NES, and the FER fulfilling the FONDO/MEN role. The Secretariats would
program and monitor teacher tcaining and civil works activities. In
respect of civil works, municipal administrations would also be directly
involved with project implementation.
2.20     Based on implementation difficulties encountered under Loan
2192-CO (para. 1.26) the management capacity of both the NES and the
FONDO/MEN has been substantially strengthened in preparation for project
implementation. To establish the capacity to handle the increased
workload, the staff of the NES has been doubled to 20, allocated as
follows: regional coordination and support - 11, programming and
information management - 3, financial coordination - 2, and procurement
support - 4 (including experienced, ex-ICCE staff). FONDO/MEN personnel
assigned to the project would be increased from three to ten professionals.
Besides existing staff, already appointed are a new director and the long-



- 16 -
disbursements officer, a budget officer and an experienced financial
umaager for the pruject (also an accountant). During negotiations, the
Government agreed that it would maintain during project implementation, as
directors of the NES and the PONDO/MEN, individuals with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
2.21     Implementation Procedures.  Implementation plans and schedules for
the policy and management development components are summarized in the plan
of action for these items attached to a letter on subsector policies
prepared by the Minister of Education (Annex 6, Attachment 1). Ir-estments
for school materials, school furniture and teacher training would be based
on agreed programs described in project contracts between the MEN and the
participating department and its FER. The procurement of student manuals
and textbooks, teachers' materials, school libraries, and school furniture
would be carried out centrally. Technical specifications and bid documents
for materials would be prepared, and bids evaluated, by the relevant HEN
unit (i.e., the Curricula Department for materials, the Department for
School Facilities for furniture). The MEN procurement committee would
award contracts in accordance with evaluation outcomes and contract
payments would be handled by the FOnI4%!?%N. Contracts include the costs of
delivery to regional warehouses. Final delivery would be arranged through
the FERs. These mainly centralized procedures have been developed and
improved under Loan 2192-CO and are considered efficient and appropriate
for continued use. Procedures for providing teacher training also follow
existing arrangements, which are satisfactory.  The NES communicates to the
regions the authorized training budget; and the allocation is transferred
to the FERs for use by the departmental CEPs (Regional Centers for Support
of Educational Reform), which deliver an agreed program of training.
2.22     As a result of the decentralization of responsibility embodied in
the introduction of Law 12 and the phasing out of ICCE, procedures for
implementing school upgrading are in transition. The procedures to be used
for executing civil works under the project have been designed in
recognition of the recent decentralization initiative. However, these
procedures do not depend upon the decentralization program for successful
implementation of the civil works component. Rather, they would build on
and take advantage of local mAnagement skills and institutions whare these
are judged adequate, and use a more centralized approach in other cases.
2.23     The procedures for implementing project civil works follow a two-
year cycle, and include four main activities (Annex 7, Attachment 4
provides detail on start-up activities in the cycle). First, eligible
departments, and through the departments the municipalities, would confirm
to the MEN thei. conmmitment to cofinance civil works in the targetted
shares (52 of total for the departments; 202 of works for the
municipalities, para. 2.7): and submit requests for civil works based on
the centrally verified needs assessments, which are updated anually
(para. 2.6). Second, the MEN would inform the participating depaLt.--rs of
recomended, and later approved, investment ceilings for project civil
works. These decisions would be based upon the investment guidelines set
for civil works (para. 2.6) and implementation progress under the component
(para. 2.27). Agreed investments and cost-sharing would be described in
supplemental contracts (para. 2.21) between the departments and the MEN,
and between the departments and participating municipalities. Third, the
MEN, with department involvement, would determine acministrative
*1.                 .         .  .  .   .



- 17 _
of the cycle. The criteria for deciding on administrative arrangements and
the schedules for departments' participation take into account variations
in municipal and departmental management and financing capabilities and
experience. They are based on a reliable classification of municipalities
according to financial and management capacity carried out by the Banco
Central Hipotecario. In most cases (for up to 90Z of eligible
municipalities). on experienced financial and management agent, the Banco
Central Hipotecario, (or the Banco Popular or Caia Agraria supported by the
Banco Central Hipotecario) would be contracted by the departmental
Secretariat of Education to administer civil works contracts which would be
executed by firms or individuals. Exceptions to this approach would be
made for a few departments, where departmental and municipal management of
civil works contracts are comparatively strong. In these cases.
Secretariats of Education, with inputs from departmental offices of public
works, reloc&ted ex-ICCE staff and FERs wo,41d directly support municipal
management of civil works contracts. In the least developed departments,
the MEN would directly administer, or arrange for administration of, works
as required (for example, where the qualified financial agents lack
representation). The quality of the management and the timely
implementation of works would be closely monitored by the NES staff who
would provide additional support as required. Fourth, the procedures
incorporate regular government practice for contracting works within each
department. Municipalities would deposit in a local account their share of
the contract value. Remaining deposits for advance and partial payments
would be transferred to that account from an account held by the management
agent or FER, which would contract separately for supervision and physical
control of the works. A share of the value of contracts in poorer, rural
municipalities would be provided in the form of community labor, in line
with self-help efforts common to the Escuela Nueva. This support would be
costed and included in the construction contracts.
2.24     The civil works procedures have been designed with support of an
engineering firm retained by the MEN. They are based on assessment of
recent, successful experience with execution of reconstruction works in
Popayan, and with local financing of works in some 50 municipalities. The
procedures and management arrangements would be further tested and refined
during the first year of project implementation, prior to the formal start
of construction (scheduled to begin in the second year). The consultants
have also assessed the capacity of selected public financial management
entities to participate in the civil works component. Based on this
assessment, the Banco Central Hipotecario, followed by the Banco Popular
and Caja Agraria, were judged to have the greatest experience in financial
and technical management of development projects at the municipal level.
2.25     Implementation Schedule, Monitoring and Review.  The project would
be completed within a six-year period beginning in 1989, with start-up
scheduled for late 1988. A detailed investment program and implementation
plan by department has been prepared and reviewed by the Bank for the first
year of project implementation for the primary education development
component. Bid documents for goods to be procured through 1989 have also
been completed by the MEN, and a request for the local budget contribution
for 1989 has been preliminarily approved. The practice of completing and
updating annual plans, which would coincide with the initiation of the
budget cycle, would be continued throughout the implementation period.
Annual program and investment planning would be based mainly on the plan of
action for implementing policy and management support measures (attached to
the subsector policy letter, para. 2.21). The guidelines for investment
olannina, including criteria and proposed limits by department and



- 1l -
investment activity, are embodied in the MEN's project preparation
documents, together with implementation and reporting procedures (including
procedures for financial management and control). Criteria for assessing
managerial, technical and financial feasibility for departmental and
municipal participation, for scheduling investments and, in the case of
civil works, for determining appropriate administrative arrangements, are
also included. These guidelines, criteria and procedures were consolidated
in a project operating manual reviewed during negotiations.
2.26     The planned build-up of investment activities tinder the project is
gradual, with peaks in years three through five of a six-year
implementation period. On average, annual investments would amount to
about twice the level of investments in primary education managed by
project authorities during 1986-88. The recent and significant
strengthening of central project management staff and processes
(paras. 2.20, 2.21) was designed to establish adequate capacity to
implement the larger investment program and to provide appropriate
financial control. It aims to take advantage of succesaful experience,
provide back-up support for the introduction of new procedures in the area
of civil works, and ensure economy and efficiency in the procurement of
goods and satisfactory accounting, auditing and monitoring.
2.27     In addition, the project would incorporate as the key monitoring
tool annuil progress reviews, to be conducted jointly by the Government and
the Bank. The prograunmatic approach to investments in primary education
provides a flexible mechanism for periodic adjustments to the pace or scope
of the program, as may reasonably be required. Decisions on investment
levels and content for the coming y6ar vould be based mainly ont (i)
availability af resources and determination of an appropriate share of
investment for primary education in total public investment for education;
(ii) progress achieved towards implementing investments agreed for the
previous year; and (iii) advances made towards achieving financing and
resource use policy targets and related institutional improvements. The
execution of the civil works component -- including the determination of
departmental allocations, implementation of cost-sharing arrangements and
effectiveness of the implementation process -- would form a particular
focus of the review, particularly in the early years of implementation.
The security of regions (or subregions) receiving investments would also be
considered as a matter of priority during the annual reviews: project
investments would be directed only to areas judged by the Government to be
sufficiently secure to allow Bank supervision missions (a changing
situation during the investment year would warrant shifts in planned
investments). During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out
jointly with the Bank a review of the project by September 30 each year and
to prepare, for Bank approval, the detailed investment program for the
following calendar year by November 30 each year.
Pro4ect Costs and Financing
2.28     Project Costs and Financing.  Project costs are based on, and
incorporate, the Government's six-year investment program for primary
education for the period 1989 to 1994 ((Annex 8, Table 1). The project
has a total base cost of US$144.1 million equivalent (mid-1988 prices).
Total project costs (net of import duties) amount to US$169.2 million,
including contingencies (Annex 8, Table 2). Of the total, about 14Z
represents foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies are estimated at



- 19 -
4Z of base costs (this comparatively low level reflects the programmatic
design of the project) and price contingencies at 132 of base costs plus
physical contingencies. The rates used for the price contingencies, based
on estimated international price increases, were 31 for 1989-90, and 42
thereafter. It is assumed that periclic exchange rate adjustments would
compensate for differences between projected international inflation and
local inflation rates. The loan amount of US$100.0 million would finance
59Z of total project costs (or 1002 of the foreign exchange costs and 53Z
of local costs). Remaining financing would be provided in the following
shares: central Government - 34?, departments 12, municipalities - 6S
(Annex 8, Table 3).
2.29     Recurrent Costs.  Upon completion of the implementation period,
the project will generate annually an increased recurrent cost of US$13
million in the MEN budget. This increase would include up to US$6.0
million to be used for incentives for the redeployment of primary teachers
and US$7 million for textbook replacement, inservice teacher training,
supervision and student assessment. This amount represents less than 22 of
the MEN recurrent budget at present and could be accommodated in overall
increases in MEN recurrent resources anticipated over the period. In line
with policy objectives, the increase in non-salary expenditures for primary
education would raise the total non-salary share of recurrent expenditures
to the targeted 3X (para. 2.4).
Procurement
2 30     Procurement arrangements and limits by type of procurement are
presented in Annex 9. Contracts for civil works (total estimated value,
about US$50 million), for the replacement or rehabilitation of primary
school classrooms, are judged to be of insufficient value to attract
foreign bidders (the estimated average value per contract is about
US$35,000 and are all expected to be far below US$250,000). Civil works
contracts exceeding US$35,000 in value would be carried out under regular
government procedures for local competitive bidding (LCB), which have been
reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works contracts of less
than US$35,000 in value would be awarded on the basis of local shopp4.ng
procedures subject to an aggregate total of US$20.0 million.
2.31     Contracts for the provision of textbooks and other materials, and
furniture (total estimated value about US$72 million) exceeding US$250,000
in value (representing about 552 of total value) would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts for materials
and furniture of less than US$250,000 and more than US$30,000 in value
(representing about 352 of value) would be awarded in accordance with LCB
procedures which have been reviewed by the Bank and found to b. adequate.
Miscellaneous items of materials, furniture and equipment, which cannot be
grouped in packages of US$30,000 or more in value and subject to an
aggregate total of US$10.0 million, would be procured through local
shopping.  Contracts for technical assistance and consultants would be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines. Prior Bank review would be
required for contracts for goods exceeding US$250,000, and, for the first
two LCB contracts to be awarded for civil works and goods respectively.
Other contracts and bid evaluations would be subject to random ex post
review by Bank staff.



-  0O -
Disbursements (Annex 10)
2.32     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a seven-year period
ending December 31, 1995. This corresponds with the regional disbursement
profile for the sector. Proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as
followsa (a) 55Z of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 10O2 of foreign
and 902 of local expenditures for materials and furniture; (c) 1002 of
foreign and 90X of local expenditures for teacher training; and (d) 10O of
foreign and 902 of local expenditures for technical assistance and studies.
Disbursements for civil works contracts, all other local expenditures with
a contract value less than US$200,000 equivalent and foreign expenditures
with a contract value less than US$50,000 would be made on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure. Supporting documentation for these
expenditures would be retained by the FONDO/MEN and made available for
periodic review by Bank staff. Disbursements on all other items would be
fully documented. To expedite disbursements, a Special Account would be
established by the Government in the Central Bank in US dollars. The Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$10.0 million. Project expenditures for
materials, furniture, teacher training and civil works incurred after
June 1, 1988 would be eligible for retroactive financing up to an amount of
US$5.0 million. At negotiations, the Government agreed that disbursements
against expenditures on school materials, furniture and training would be
contingent upon evidence that the MEN had completed project contracts with
participating departments, and for civil works, supplementary agreements
with departments and between the departments and mttnicipalities.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
2.33     Based on previous experience with accounting and auditing, the
FONDO/NEN is being strengthened to carry out responsibilities under the
project and a new system of accounts was introduced in September 1988
(para. 2.10 and Annex 11). In particular, efforts are underway to
streamline and clarify administrative procedures related to the system of
accounts, authorizations and control of funds by executing agencies. Under
the project, the FONDO/MEN would establish and maintain consolidated
project accounts as well as other records that are needed to account for
project financing. Similar separate accounts and records would be
maintained by the departmental FERs and by the Banco Central Hipotecario
(and other financial agents employed) and the municipalities participating
in the civil works component.  Such accounts would be clearly identified
within the FONDO/MEN accounting system and be adequate to record, monitor
and report on the financial transactions for the project, including local
and Bank financing. The accounts would be audited annually by the
Government's Comptroller General, in accordance with the Bank's auditing
guidelines, including a separate opinion on withdrawal applications made on
the basis of statements of expenditure. The Special Account would also be
audited annually by the Comptroller General in accordance with terms of
reference to be supplied by the Bank. The annual audit reports would be
provided to the Bank no later than six months after the close of the
financial year.
2.34     The head of the National Executive Secretariat for the project
would be responsible for preparing semi-annual (by June 30 and December 31)
progress reports for Bank review, to provide information on project



- 21 -
implementation, covering both quantitative and qualitative aspects of the
project and linking these vith financial performance. (The main indicators
fir project monitoring to be covered in the reports are suummarized in the
plan of action for implementing policy and management.support measures, and
in tables indicating physical investment targets in Annex 6). These
reports would contribute to information required for the annual reviews of
project progress and would facilitate Bank supervision.
Benefits and Risks
2.35      Benefits.  The project's focus on strengthened policies for the
use and mobilization of resources for primary education would contribute to
long-term gains in both quality and efficiency in the subsector. Policy
measures would create an improved balance in recurrent expenditures by
reducing the share for personnel and raising the share for other inputs;
reduce the cost and number of years of schooling required per graduate by
nearly 302; and, encourage the mobilization of additional resources for the
sector. The project would also develop decentralized management experience
and capabilities in the education sector, including municipal capacity to
manage and finance educational investments. Together, the policy measures
and management improvements should help to ensure the availability of
adequate public resources to extend the first cycle of education beyond the
primary level, to meet the basic education needs of Colombian youth and to
sustain productive employment, thereafter.
2.36     The immediate benefits of the project would be to assist the
Government towards achieving universal provision of primary education, most
notably by raising the participation and completion rates of rural school-
aged children from 70? to 90?, and 202 to 60?, respectively. These gains
would be complemented by improvements in the quality of primary education
through the expansion of use of the Escuela Nueva program and materials to
nearly 800,000 children and the widespread provision of materials in urban
areas. The invostment program for the primary education subsector is
expected to have a significant poverty impact. Virtually all of direct
investments at the school level, planned for both rural and urban areas,
would benefit disadvantaged population groups. In addition, project
benefits would be distributed equally between males and females in view of
the current profile of enrollments in primary education.
2.37     Risks.  The main project implementation risks derive from the
broad scope of the subsector investment program for primary education and
the addition of new, decentralized management responsibilities for the
municipalities. There is a risk that the planned extension of the improved
rural primary curriculum and related inputs will overcax management
capacity at all admlnistrative levels and result in Aelays. Relying mainly
on experience gained under the first phase effort (assisted by Loan
2192-CO), several measures have been taken to minimize this risk. The NES
and the FONDO0MEN have been strategically strengthened; successful (mainly
centralized) implementation processes and procedures would be continued;
and technical assistance and training will be provided to assist both MEN
and department staff to participate effectively in the process. In
addition, the build-up of implementation activities over the implementation
period vill be incremental and any necessary adjustments would be effected
through annual reviews of progress under the investment program.



- 22 _
2.38     The second and related risk is that the municipal participation in
civil works would pose particular implementation difficulties, in view of
weaknesses in both financial and management capabilities at that level.
Targets for cost-sharing have been conservatively estimated, clear
implementation procedures have been defined, and, in most departments,
financial and technical management support services would be provided on a
contract basis with an experienced entity to reduce these risks.  In
addition, regular support would be channeled through the NES, and a two-
year cycle for civil works, normally conducted in one year, would
compensate in part for variations in capacity.
III. RECOMMENDATIONS
3.1      During negotiations, the Government agreed that:
(a) the planning and project management system of the SIED would be
fully introduced by the MEN by December 31, 1989 (para 2.9);
(b) a system for evaluating student achievement in primary education
would be put in place on a national scale by December 31, 1991 and
that results would be applied regularly to strengthen primary
education (para. 2.15);
(c) the directors of the NES and FONDO/MEN, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank, would be maintained
throughout implementation (para. 2.20);
Cd) it would complete annually by September 30 a joint review of the
project with the Bank, and annually by November 30 a detailed
investment program for the coming year for Bank approval (para.
2.27).
3.2      As conditions for disbursement, the Government would provide
evidence of completed project contracts between the MEN and the departments
for materials, furniture and teacher training, and separate (supplementary)
agreements with the departments and between the departments and
municipalities for civil works (para. 2.32).
3.3      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan in the amount of US$100 million equivalent
to the Republic of Colombia.



-21-
0031AA?VS ROUCAMN0 IK 9935l                                                         Page I of 2
November 3, 1980
3  3-*-3-.-----.....--43   3                 ~                          .-.-.-4             3      
3                                      3093 fIICA~~~~~~~~~:PRDTION 9UATO                :OMLEIN              .3i?cOS   1003809                     
I                3    I       low   Ml3             3AM  6610C3?   IW6330110t15  ILIIIRACT ?R1386k937R1H61    3P113161A 373aN6E        33AT1  M8g3  SS3000D9RT3SECO33ARY3iHlGIVR 
3                384113 FOP. tCAPtTA 3133013  GNPsT1T3. C9sTgL3ALLOC&T90 103 33A13           BIIILL. 38C900L    3511303NT18 103CA11043 37318AI? TO 3gR31Li.  3STUDOE3I  i9NROL3L.%
3            313*E3NXYSKtKLL5.a(US$)  301V0?U TO 3001389339    tPR1  SEC  HI i  (Z)   384A110  ICICLE       3118      3M  PRACKUT?809CONAR1  38ATIO   tiER           334TIO  t
3            a~~~~~ s(1979)t(1979) 3 tDUJCAIION sEX?E330TU19   3     (8       3 (1976) 3 (3)   3 (3)    313*035  IGN?ICAPUTAS    (3)    a (Z)    31T40C36   3  (83              
3          3    3~~~~~(1)3(2)3i    (3)              (4)      :    (3)       3 (6)   i(7)  I   (8)          3(9)3(10)3                 ( 3)i (12)  i(13)3(14)3i
*OSTR*L1A     ~so    14.6b  6,870       6.3'        14.6        -    -    -      -         1032     300         21                      99t         73        13       20.90
CANADA        el    237   9,63Ob    7.              18.3ay      30&  34s? 23&    ggb       106*     100         21        19.9*?       100          92'       t8       22.60'
0853143  1.3.      79    61.2  12,200       4.6          9.9'        -     -     -     29b      $9       100'             -                 100'         94'       -        12.30'
631T33RLANDS       is    14.   10,490       7.9           3.1       20   31   25       99b1     96        9s         to        15.3          99          82        13       12.40
UV3 Z1*A.A6        so      3,02b  6:0Ub    1:5W          134         37   31   26      ,gb      t00      100         24        11.6         300          82        is      35.80"6
811I089            19      8.3  12,250      9.0         18.2        31   10   30       g9b      991      300         18        19.9         100          79'       30'?    36.50'Y
508WANA            n3      1.06    9304    6.           22.0        41   34   22       40      100        77         32        30.0          40          20        21       1.80
SIIIINI            81      4.2      231     2.86w       19.0        43   28   27       21       29'       I5         3i        20.2          12           3'       17        1.00
-Omans             p4      0.4b    341      3.8'        28.0        49   29   22       49       76        40         39                      41          36        28       0.60
DJISOUTI           84      0.4      480     1.0         31.9        73   26   ...    10         42        66         40        67.0          40          t0        19       0.60
EUTIOPIA           8s    43.0       310     3.69         9.1        33   26   37       39       37        30'        63        39.)          93'         14        44       0.50
31111              6l    37,44    420b    S.&mb         29,3b       65136   I1         456     it3        16         36        14.4          31          I8        26         -
3*40739            82      1,44    4354    1.S           16.9       38   32   26       334     336'       41         48         9.6          46          21        21        1.30
SOAStCAX        77     8.1      330      4.0'        24.0        13   28   19      10        9461      33        11b        8.0          36           14       23        3.30by
8I     6.16    230k    3.5          13.4        38   14   21       216      62        23        61          1.8          12           4        21       0.40
MAURITIUS    ~      3      1jb  1.170b    4             14.0        46   36    7       Bob      93        72         23        33.0         100          50        23        3.00
RWANEDA            83       5.gb    2706    3.6         21.4        11   16   33       376      61        30         40        16.0           9           1        14       0.40
8ITC33RLLEB        79      0.6   1,770      1.9         22.4'        34' 330  10'                                    25        -                   -          -     -
S0OMALIA           81      4.8      280      3.5        to.5         Sob  444   66    304       22b       806        29b        9.0b         Bob         12b       22        3.00
SUDAN4             60    19 2b    380b    3.0           -           66   39 ..    32            11"x    68           34         1.4          44          16        16
SWAZILAN3D         83      0.76    940b    3,8pb        20.4         51   34   ;;      61b      93        s0         33        33.0          98          29        l8        3.00
TANZANIA4          so    38.1       260     3.9          17.7       47   10   16       79b      986       87         43        31.0          39b          3        20'      0.30
UGANDA             66    13,2b    22Ob    I..            12.0        18   33   28      12       346b      42         34         1.5b         3t          396       22       0.60k?
34161      81    29.s~~~~~ 210b    7.            26.4        -    -    t0o      6        76       21         30        2.             03                    8        20
1*1383A            80      3,k       66b    4.Sp         11.1       48   23   22       444      91        80         48        12.S          19          16        22        3.50
3133jj333 ~           7,7 7St           3.1         19.1        62   32    6      4b       90        Ss         39        20.0          81           IS       23        0.51;
33111389 M?ICA
81319              79      3,46    320b    6.1'         35.0        43   23    1    33b         42        30         46        14.0          30          3t        43        3.00?
8063133            81      6.1      210b    2.1'        23.7        43   29   28       9        16        25         31        24.3          16           3        24       0.03
CAIIEROO           84    10.0       ajob    3.39                     33  38  28       20        69        45b        so        -             --          23        28        2.70
C.4.3.             86      2,6b    260k    3.5*7         24.7'?     49   16   24    --          79        45         61'?      is   18                              67       1.40'?
CHAD0              87      1.2      179     2.6          6.9         38?  14?   31              44        39         60         5.3          35           7'       37       0.80a
C0900              78      1.5      670     9.0"?y      27.7'Y            -          - -- -      -          -        367       -             30          -         436?      4.00'y
EQUAT. G013334     83      0.34    270b    2.8            1.8       47   24-  ... 20            13        10         8o         1.2          40          75        17'?      --
CAMOM              77      0.6   3,420      3,767         6.47      -    -    --      -         -           -        4667      -              --         --        19by      2.80'?
GAMBIA             77      0.6      220      3.3"w        6         46   23'  6'   job          40bY      90'        2767      44.7'         40           32b'?    17        --
GHANA4             76    31.3       400     4.07            5b        - -                       736*y    -           27 b                     -          366*7    2 1 
GUtNEA             79      15       2909    46-P                    21' 28' 28'  20             34        36         38        20.0*9        85          36        29        7.00'
001333  BISSAU     88      0,9b   217o0      -            9.6        46   32   --   11(?)       38        30         26         2.0          -            -        16        --
IVORY OD41T        83      g,3b    720      7.1         42.8         SI   40    9    31'?       72        79         37        29.0          49          22%9      30        1.88
LIBERtA.           60      3.9      120     4.6          19.6       41   23   24    30          12        32         31        20.0          76           22       20        2.90
MALI;              81      7.0b    390      4.2'        23.7'       38   23   It    30          20        60         44        13.1          66            3       It        0.90'?
NAUJRITA9tA        86    1307b    4106    3.0           22.4        32   40   21    37          33        35         s0        30.0          64          16        23        4.80
NIGER              84      5.2      300     2.8         21.0        40   21   20    14          21        20         36        41.0          37           6        28        0.50
IicERiA            83    93,6b    7606    7.47           16.0        - -       13    36         93        70         36        39.3          47          23        30        2.00
SENEGAL3           84      6.4      380     1.06        24.0        46b  356  396   28          12        39         46        26.0          19'         36'       24        2.20'
81533*31033        77      3.4      210     4.06         36.06      -.  --   _.   356           37*       -          31        23.06         84          31'       22        0.606?
TM0                18      2.4      400     6.533W      26.34       30*  28' 21'   38           74        40         546?      18.0          52          326*?    486        1.60by
ARGENTIN3A          78    27.    2,1I27                  3.9        4'33         o8  ,:         89        12         17         -87                      33         8       23.00
8*AH*1AS           79      0.2   2,770       1.7        19.1        36  36331    934            9         97         24                      97          71        19       -
BARBADOS           78      0.2   2.680      0.5"?       22.1'       43' Its  16'  99b          300?       99'        217       39.9'         99'         78?       20?       -
BOLIVIA            so      5.4      530     4,1'?        30.3'            - -         63        747       -          20?       -              --3?S                 --      12.60?
BSRAZTL            79   136.3   170         1.             .         1    - 3          6        7367      -          23&?      41.5b         61'         35*       14'Y    12.62b
03313.8       ~~76    10.    369        3.2b7      .36:         -          -b             11941y?               3467      -                          S 3341   20by    31.906?
COLOMBIA           88    28.46  1:32obk   5.09          20.0        40   30   20    68          80o       42         29         8.0                      541       20       l0.00f
C0STA PicA         80      3.2b I S.810     8.4          31.3       40   27   33    90          93        77         33         5.1          77          40        27       34.00
006A.              78      9.8      -       8.0          33.0       -     -     -     96       31261?    98          3867                    98          7 b36*?    31      t9.026?
OO3INICAN U3P.    80       .3.   1,030      2.9         133.0       39   23   22    68b         80        31         19         3.2          94          30        33       16.00
100*003            80      8.4b  1,110      6,0          367        4      3 36       8         0                     6        12.6          86          47        l6       29.00
EL SALVADOR3       77      4.4      640     346         233,367     64    8   21    62          p36b3'   32          39        -             41          26b'7    27w'?      7.90b?
CUAT!RNALA         78      6.6   3,030      I.7'y       12,6b6              -         -         696'?    -           3167                    69          1Sb'?    1967       1.50?
GUYAKA             76      0.8      630     8.167        33.8-4?            -         -         996*7    -           3267                    -           19bx7    -_         3.00b,
BLAITI             s0      1.06    230      3.4'         7.9ay      61    9    6    23b         so        20         4         19.0          62'          4'       21       0.80
IIOIIOURAB  78  3.6      320    ~~~~3.1b7    14.3by      62' 1S' 19'  60             69617    30'         416       32.8'          8           13       19       8.00?
JA33A1C6           80      2.1   1,310      6.3          13.7       37   43   20    90          98        98         40         2.3          91          at        22        8.00
3311100            e0    61.1   1,880       4,          17.0'       46   39   11    92          98        13         44         9.1          86          56        17       30.30
61041*00           78      2.6b    b10      3.061       14.ob          -     -        gob       *s61      24          7         --                       2661      30b     -
PANAMA6            78      I.8b  1,510 Sob   S6*y       23,847      42*  13' 33    826          9367                 3367      13.6          83'         50by      376?    20.40by
PAL*0UA1           79      1.0   1,140      1.4'        14.2        42   17   20    84          83        32         29         3,Ir         76          22        12        0.70
7810T              80    16.6   1,000       3.          14.         53  31   19    80           83        56         39         9.8          89          39        22       34.40?
TRINIDAD 6 0O.   77        1.1   3,910      4.867b        g:',4y    48   32   20    95          98        91         30        10.3?         4.9         62        24       --
UE3JUA!            78      2.9   2,300      2.5          9.4b       -     -     -     94       aOl6x      -          344       -             -           6461               17.80'?
VEIIEZUELA         78    14.44  3,440       3.17         t8.9b      -     -     -     82        10661     -          28        -             -           386'      17       23.10?



-24-
I.1131139'6A39   3504lU  601Al.812 
a.  a    a        a       a             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  aIIATO  il= W  AnU.    a         A          a F    I  aI  CUN  aFDIU           N           a          I        a
*         a    a       a~~~~~~~to  a         aa                                       a        aM w  900 I"9ta  ky'a  NR         IAT  "O                  aI 
a1111a 1 aot  C TAjU1N a                    gUfiTAL, CITLALAT   MiaM                 a        aI.  aCIM             a UMM'NCAtMI    aKII  t              aKIM1   SKIPT  11H1 a-
a        a     111a   a041  ia              a3 0a982333a?   a       at CH            a 1      aNTI   a"             a           a i           aUUiJIMN  aNTI        a        a TH
a     a    a(l376)a(I979~~~~~ a rn~3C110 atE 4O29    a    (2)            a(36)  a (2) Ia  (2)    I   (AWh  aUPIA10) I    (21)              a   (12)  aTkO2A         (12)  a
M N        n1.ub ob   2~506    3.1               7.1         33   "    21      76b       94        Go         as         3.0           47          34        is        4.60
tU6eS1a             S1I   13.0      320      2.           9.          70  2A      6     306       06        6          37         13.0          74          27        26        3.70
KOMs                62    1*36.,6"           7*7         l0           3434   1           9        To9       98         43         16.0          67          12        22        4.00
LMO.               es    3.7        lAO      A.4'          7.0        44629       3     47i       111       as         27        -              40W7        Is        Is        1.30
NILSYSIA            66    16.1b  1..o60      6.7          I.3         u6   t0   22        3b      OR        93         02         16.0          67          72        22        t.00
TANA N.0.           63      3.OR    62       3.4          19.0        40   37   22       -         0        734        31A        15.0          is          1One      270       3.00
ILIIPIS   79    t8.3~~S    410b    2.g1          %40        A    2              3        64        63         31         7.3           69          33        36       21.00
StmIO              80      2.4   4.420      2.7           4.7        39  4016          63        92        62         31         6.6           94          33        22        6.00
s*oow  w..          as     0.26    440       4.6101      19.0b        Al   34   20       Is       is        so         27         I0.A          t0          20        Is        2.50
324tUSD             as    49.0b    awb    3.4             20.3        39   14   10      Sal      l01        Al         21          9.3'         44          46        las       .oo
W&AAW               86     0.1      -        8.3          23.3        Al   27    4       1)      Its        40         24         31.0          23          20        16        2.00
6AUUDA$             Al   103.16,   360       -            10.4         -     -    -     29b       63        45         48          7.5          33          21        26        4.90*7
3101               so   1.2   so   3.6                    1 1.0       -  ----    10    12                              -            -          -                 -              _
1101A               77   639.6      210      2.87         9.937       -     -     -     36        79Z       -          41                                   25*       -         6.30Wy
OPAL               82    33.06    1306    1.4           -             -     -    -      19        70        -          39                                   23        23        3.70'
Fallow*             as    *7.I b    36b    2.0             7.0        36  2024           22       so        61         30          3.9          56          21        13        3.00
8608*533245   ~77       3.3              .            3.7        47   19   13       32       3l67      69         376       -              62           a        z226      3.007
A3l221              79     6.3   3.770       s.6'         12.3        34' 26'  21'    33          831       63'        37          7.0?         33'         297       26        3.707
MM9?                82    43.3'    630'    4.6'            7.9        31'  33*  26'    Al         73'       60'        34A        9.6'          830         43'       19'      37.00
GM13                74      9.3   t.ltO      2.4'         10.46       37   36   21      -         9WY                  296         6.2?         -           796*      27b7    17.6067
0233                79    36.9      -         MayW        34.1'?Y     -     -     -      30      101"  -               32'               -                  44"       24'       4.90'?
16*0                79    12. 6 2.710        4.3*7         4.9*7      -    -    -       -        1007                  28         --                        45sy      244       9.300W
111USD             6l        :4b  &4980       34.3        136'        -       -     --  98        93        94         29                       to 9        81        19       11.00
JUDaS               61     2.61.06           49           10,         19   44   Is       706       2         3         3           31                        9         6        89
LhmAm               79  :2.3   -I- 13a"7  -  --    -                                              s6'   -              19    -                  -            4    -    27.80WY
"AUC                84     21.6     4706    6.0'          2.9         36   43   39       33       s7-        9         S1         13.1          -           14'       39        8.90f
ow         as       63      1.26 44906    3.2             32.7"        -     -   -       3067      7318     63'        23'        -             90           its       36'     ..
1POUWOAL          856    10.26  19706    4.6              11.3        30   26   1 3     Uo       123        70         1o         36.9         46           33        36        6.00
N3I6                76    *2.1   2.100       3.907         6.27       -    -    -       to       1066*                 236                      96     ~     6*b    22b        10.6ob7
6SPUN               76    37.0   6.920       2.? 3y 6.61                   -    -         -        5by                 2gb                      -           67 b7     -        26.306Y
SYRI                78     8.6   3.170       4.46         10.3        39   23   26       se       6767      s0         336                      68          416b7     236      32.60
Toli18l6            79     6.4  11.330       7.06         19.0        42   39   is       626      110'      so         396        12.8          30          30'       30        6.00
10221               83      47.3  3.230      3.3          36.2        30   22   24       736      It0       77         33          6.0          33          26        II1       8.00
Ia   A.2.           St     9.3b    330b    7.96           17.7        so   20   131    21'        33        28         S3        27.6           00           9        20        1.90
03   6.0.2.        62      2.06    6206    7.6            9.7         63'  14'   A4    33         61        34         23        22.0'          Al          1 7       20        2.30
Ua",lofCaa trl,  CO6R                 4               93       704 9  67          a63       92        Go         93        63            735         93        68       63
It"g.a                                     (1.4-           (3.7-  (22-  (6-  (3-    (6-        (12-      (32-        (17-      (1.6-          (0-_        (1-       (6-      (0.03-
10.0)          34.3)  94)   66)  33)    99)         119)     993)        77)        67.0)         3003        84)       4S)      29.0)
Quaartil.sa Oppeta                          5.6            21.7      3 1   36   22    a6I        68        so         As        20             67         A47        26       31.0
1.41a*'                         4.0            16.1     43   26   I9       33        63        61         33        33             63          26        22        3.7
Lowewt                          3.0            11.0      39 21    13       23        60        33         26         9             to          1t        19        3.0
Q.aa lot.1  0.w1.tloa                       3.3             3.4    6.5  7.5  4.3   26.0        39.0      22.3        7.0       3.6           23.3        16.5       3.5        3.0
""Rsa                                       4.t            37.0      443936            532       76        391        39        36             62          33        23        6.9
Standard De.la11ona                         1.9             6.7      12   10    7      29        27        2t         13        13             27          23         7        7.4
S6d3a*                                      4.0            16.0      43   26   t9       33       63        61         33s       13             43          26        22        3.7
DAIWA 118VAILUM                                              A - DA1WN PRIDE TO*2 BASS  TM                          - 611880 OP toCaj&TIoa  (HU1) ONLY
44031780  NIL OR   0L101615                                   6- DAM10  aoI  MBCIUTII1     6A06 TM*             T - WE1AND STATE 000115a28T ONL.Y
O    DAMU  0'ISTOSASIZ                                             u - cmsS? 62136s                                   W - PUBLtC 11P68tDtTU61 ONLY
*    13L090  PA12-131 31330632                                  It - IMc  UOLL    UST 121                         1 * INCUJAIDS OYU8-AGE STUDIST
F * 03353 uNOUJaIS  66110                         1 - 036300 bUICKS
P - O
SlCRISCU          Col.as t an  2a  W8o,10 tank 41t.. o  14,1c11,, everow fie1d ideeo1.3
Coluwa  S to 14a  world 63*6 Lineatio, "et"0  atomism3. 00361*0*4  6.31.3
Co".wat1, duc.IINo Data mwe .3.f.1 in t6* or.1atlonof vartag1*. stinesulo system aid aml3yel of ca*l.11a*t-ln of
.dos.tioo. dewlovuol betweenva1*on eoamatr1.. However. .36 6.31 b40 16. t Presen date. C00sN-O*110hl 1009811600
ebmitd be appmosebad *1t6 great emtto. Veto pu.ssted 1016.e .6bo. t.b1. be" 6... ai11ctd larply7 by 6.36 ada6on,.
*1e* gover0nmen  60*1r3  6. t 16mma1d61 8*6 staff ..t161t  or data froe Unseen.  U0fow.M have b.30 0*d  to st-adardisA
deOloitio.s "a, *1t610 11.1t. to dock th S.M".1 of01he date. 6.,et6.amo. seeb dots ar6 01111 IqerOoct in
..,ralL respects am0 the 3*11is emmuig to improve 16.. prose ai.41..l .316 occason of Its opSr.110061 .01. In*the
..*  othe". data. 16. 0ol1o*1og q"U.IlIctbo.s ebidold 6. kept tN 11oda
(3) MUdoaet1a' as 611.3d4i t*16 table tateld" all edacalto mad triAning, b.tb forail mad stat-fo1ma.
(2)   'Prismy' 40.atim,. reform to 40octaat.   tb o6 810.t 3.,.. aid *s.OOdIawp  .io.Iaata ,.0.t. to all adnestlo0
at 16. ..coAaary lewdl regawdilmas 40 tm  (e.3.*g.. gw.1l. 1.06.1*6. a8r11o1t.al).
()a    Uteracy rot"' (col. 6) ong often Obtained fra 10*    stry ea""".  la0*37 1.3*11166 t6, an6 0*-I
apprar10*tao.  .34 It In dwbat0.1 that My .310om 46*Llttlb     of '111.r.t1.  b"  6.s  follomed e*1t1tOt1y.
(6)   'f,611e 18906d1to1  16 6dtat.110*  (cots. 4 .403) niece61 t 31 al        pital mk 160*T6*t expedita1q* devoted to
.4.1.11.  by pobl4e .40 quavil-imb11, .58*e6".
(3)   '6aro11m* rativit  (cola. 7. 32.4 sad1) c606r to .ebm1  yea  .40 ar.1t   percentage 01 elIgiblm  dildOen
emolled 1611-t10* 1is6 t.491091g161 sebool. pablic mb p.1*66. by level. 96.y an9 Getm, "It4eI to0 *Ads
garg31* of armN  ia the developing c81t,1m  06111 to ,.a1.atoin 1. 16. seconL7* of b6se61               (I*.
a91-speltt to 9.61110  ad inrllml.o).  gslaroIa t 01.0.  Om                 -Sety eWV Mdg6r 16.. the 0*16g of
st.4e3t. .o1t6lly is ucbool.  Over4.   .t.4est. my1 be A.lel.6  to 166.6 115*66.4 and                 11*216.t    161166.



-25-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR
PRIMARY EDUCATION
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEH
RATES OF RETURN BY EDUCATIONAL LEVELS
(Percent per year)
*.gerene                         tPrvate                                        Social
(Yearof .vocat=M V1cat=o6oT
_st__t__         Pr;ima,   Secondar,  Walter    Training   Primas   S_c___d___           _a_o_r    Tra_____
France
(1964)              29                     19
Sehu Its
(1965)             1t          34          4                       15         27          3
(1963-66)           49         24          0                       26         21         6
*oeghewty
(1960)                                                             21         21          7
(1972)                                                 71                                             19
(1971)             '            *          12
(1974)               a          9          1:
Pegeha 'omepe .
(1973)              15         15          21
(1975)               *         11
Podri gue:
(1976)                                     2                                              16
(1973)              12         17          16
(1971)               7         14           7
(1977)               9         13          le
(1973)                                     i s 11
-  ClOSi)                                                                        16
I ~~J;_men _
(1981)                                                 U                                             14
411e9`6:  PSA     Sehults, Sele.sky and Dougherty   s ited i C. Pseeheveop.uI.  (1972).
Pouer (1977).
lesgueipome and Mohan, fro~m R. Melse. (lo9s).
Pgahoe.p@les end R dgu   an cited in Psscher.c.uo  (1935).
J;g lo,fl.A. (1970) -



-26-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJEC? FOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
Resource Use, Allocation and Mobilizetion1
Policy Issues in Education
introduction
1.       Central government expenditures in the education sector
represented 2.4Z of GDP per year on average during the period 1975-1986,
and accounted for 2.61 of GDP during 1986. The private sector spends an
additional 1.52 to 22 of GDP annually. As a result, overall expenditure on
education amounts to roughly 52 of GDP annually, in line with other
countries at similar levels of development. Central education expenditures
have absorbed about 202 of the Government budget each year since 1975 (a
share of 17S is budgeted for 1988), and have comprised about 302 of
recurrent and nearly 52 of capital budgets. Annex tables 1-4, attached,
complement this overview. Additional detail is available in the recent
sector memorandum, Colombia: Education Sector Finance and Efficiency, dated
April 1987 (Report. No. 6587-CO).
Policy Issues
2.       Important objectives for Colombia's education system include
improving quality and coverage, resource use efficiency and resource
availability. In practice, key public expenditure policies and patterns in
the sector work counter to these objectives. Notable constraints include a
poor balance among categories of recurrent expenditure, reflected in an
excessive share of expenditure on personnel costs and an inefficient
allocation of primary school teachers; inefficiencies in use of resources,
evident in high rates of repetition and dropout at the primary level;
inadequate investment levels and an absence of systematic and targetted
investment programming; an incomplete reflection of sectoral priorities in
allocation of funds by level of education; and an excessive concentration
of financing responsibility at the central level. These weaknesses are
heightened by management constraints at all administrative levels due, in
particular, to complex national processes for budgeting and an increasing
deconcentration of administrative and selected financial management
responsibilities from the center to the departments and municipalities. In
view of limitations to further increasing central government resources
available for blucation, policy measures are required which will improve
the use and impact of the~se resources at current financing levels, and
raise the level of local and private contributions for the sector.
3.       Recurrent Expenditure Composition and Teacher Use Policy.
Recurrent expenditures accounted for nearly all central government
expenditures channeled through the MEN at each of the three levels of
formal education in recent years (Table 5). At the primary ievei, average
expenditure per student, at nearly US$100 in 1987 (Table 6), appears to be
1/ This Annex emphasizes analysis of expenditures and financing policies
for primary education, the focus of the proposed project.



-27-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 11
satisfactory overall despite considerable regional variation (attributable
largely to differences in teacher-student ratios) from US$70 (Cauca) to
about US$155 (Caqueta) among the departments, and nearly US$200 in the
territories. However, personnel costs (teachers' salaries plus non-salary
benefits) account for 992 of total recurrent expenditure on primary and
secondary education at present, and 98Z of recurrent expenditure on higher
education. As a result, expenditures on non-personnel inputs, e.g., foz
textbooks and other learning materials, school supplies, upkeep of
facilities, and regular supervision and in-service training for teachers
and administrators, have been inadequate. (The main exception to this
pattern, a pilot program for improving the quality and coverage of rural
primary education has been financed as an investment project, supported by
a Bank loan, 2192-CO of 1982.) The disproportionately high share of
expenditure on personnel costs is not unique to Colombia among developing
countries, and results in large measure from pressures to maintain adequate
remuneration levels for teachers and, since the early 1980s, from fiscal
stringencies. Colombia is, however, currently in a position to begin to
rectify the imbalance.
4.       A promising avenue for improving the composition of recurrent
expenditure for primary educetion is the improved use and deployment of the
teaching force. (Bank projections suggest that the relevant population age
group, 7-11 year olds, is likely to remain relatively constant in absolute
size for the next several decades and as a result would not constitute a
basis for a significant decline in the number of teachers required or
related savings in costs.) According to a DNP analysis of MEN data for
1987, the number of primary school teachers on the civil service payroll
(p,ermanent and contracted annually) is about 117,600. The average student-
teacher ratio is 29 --31 in urban areas and 28 in rural areas. The urban
ratios vary from 22 in the Choco to 39 in Valle and the rural ratios, from
22 in the territories to 34 in Sucre and Atlantico. (Additional teachers,
hired and paid directly by the Departments or municipalities on a contract
basis are not considered in the analysis.) For purposes of illustrating
potential for improving teacher use efficiency, the DNP assumed (on the
basis of Valle statistics) an urban student-teacher ratio of 39 and a rural
ratio of 31. This illustration yields a surplus of about 12,000 teachers
in urban areas. Based on the current student-teacher ratio, a deficit of
5,000 teachers exists in rural areas (Table 7). The increased urban ratio
would likely be difficult to attain in full. Nonetheless, results suggest
that it should be possible, with appropriate incentives, to fill the rural
teachers' deficit through the transfer of excess, urban posts, based on
normal attrition. Measures to better deploy existing posts and stock,
without creating additional positions, would further permit an increase in
expenditures on inputs needed to improve quality without increasing overall
expenditures significantly.
5.       Expenditure per Primary School Graduate and Promotion Policy.
Relatively high rates of student repetition (30Z per year on average
throughout the five year primary cycle) and dropout (about 151 per year in



-28-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 11
the first four grades) at the primary level lead to a high cost per
graduate in public primary schools. On average, 8.9 years of schooling is
required per graduate compared to the five planned (Table 6); and the cost
per graduate, at about $890, exceeds that for five years of schooling by
nearly 80Z. While expenditure on students who repeat or drop out is not
wasted, it represents a less than optimal use of resources. A policy to
reduce repetition and discourage a share of drop out (often temporary in
the Colombian context, as children frequently reenter school) is needed to
strengthen resource use.
6.       Investment Expenditure and Programming Policy.  Public investment
in the education sector broadly has declined overall since the mid-1970s
both in terms of share of total investment and share of expenditure in
education (Table 2). Resource constraints Ps well as an absence of
coherent sectoral and subsectoral investment programs largely explain this
decline, evident in the heavy concentration of total expenditures on
persortnel costs. With the sharpened definition of sector priorities, begun
under the last Government and strengthened under the current Government,
the broad outlines for subsector investment plans for education have begun
to take shape, notably in the most recent development plan issued by the
DNP in September 1987. Highest priority is given to development
expenditures for basic education for disadvantaged population groups,
beginning with the primary level. A six-year investment program has been
prepared which forms the basis for the proposed primary education project.
7.        Central-Regional Cost-Sharing and Resource M4obilization Policy.
Educational financing varies by source according to the level. Funding for
public primary education is provided almost entirely from central resources
at present, and accounts for lOOZ of expenditure in 12 departments. In
1976, central resources at this level represented 72Z of total expenditure
compared with 97Z by 1983. Departmental contributions decreased from about
24Z overall for primary education to about 12 over the same period (Table
9). Financing for public secondary education also depends heavily on
central government resources, which increased in share from 46Z in 1970 to
96Z of total in 1984, largely as a result of the nationalization of
schooling at this level (Table 9). The structure for financing at the
university level is distinct from that at the other two levels. Own income
has increased among national universities since the early 1980s while both
national and departmental resources have declined. The general decrease in
non-central public expenditures is attributable in part to fiscal
constraints but also to an absence of incentives. In the context of
ongoing decentralization efforts and objectives to enhance resource
mobilization below the central level, a policy to encourage reinstatement
of cost-sharing between the central and departmental authorities, and, in
particular, to capture increasing municipal contributions, requires
development.
8.       Allocation Policy by Level of Education.  A gradual decline in the
share of public expenditure allocated for primary education has been
experienced since the mid-1970s. In 1975, primary education accounted for



-29-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 11
512 of recurrent education expenditure and in 1985, 422 of total. Over the
same period, Ministry of Education budgets for higher education remained
constant and those for "other' educational activities increased. Current
incremental capital requirements for primary education will be catered for
in substantia'l part under the planned investment program (para. 6).
However, not all needs will be met through this program (for example, over
half of present requiremenLe for facilities upgrading ill zural areas would
not be met under the program) arid further needs will mount over that
period. In addition, plans exist to follow the investment thrust in
primary education with a sizeable expansion of lower secondary education in
rural and marginal urban areas. And, while expenditures on secondary
education have increased steadily over the past 10-12 years, the c.urrent
rate of increase would not suffice to meet this objective.
9.       The major increase in the share of resources allocated for higher
education transpired prior to the 1975 period. However, real expenditure
has been maintained since, largely as a result of the Government's policy
of direct subsidization of students at public universities. To achieve
objectives for improving and expanding basic education, in particular lower
secondary education, this policy requires reconsideration. To raise the
overall level of resources availabla for education, the revised policy
should look towards increasing private contributions at the universities.
(At present only 5Z of the costs of public university education is paid by
students.) Direct subsidies (for tuition, subsistence and transport)
further tend to be highly regressive, benefitting mainly students from
middle and higher income backgrounds. A revised financing policy should
thus incorporate targetted subsidies, in the form of expanded student
credit for qualified students from lower income backgrounds. (Available
credit is equivalent to only 2Z of total public university expenditure at
present.)



ANNEX 3
-30-                           Page 5 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 1: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AS A SHARE OF GDP,
1975-86
(1975 Col$ Millions)
Education           Percentage
Year         GDP             ExPenditure           Education
1975         405,108               8,428                 2.08
1976         462,843               8,877                 1.92
1977         518,111              10,330                 1.99
1978         498,896              11,011                 2.21
1979         513,750              12,141                 2.36
1980         530,978              12,569                 2.37
1981         528,457              13,808                 2.61
1982         519,729              14,065                 2.71
1983         493,766              13,862                 2.81
1984         659,855              15,779                 2.39
1985         583,715              15,167                 2.60
1986         613,550              16,235                 2.65
Note: Including SENA.
Source: Ministry of Education
Table 2: EDUCATION EXPENDITURE IN TOTAL CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES,
1975.85
(1975 Col$ Millions)
Recurrent        Percentage           Investment        Porcentage
Year    Total    Education    Education      Total    Education    Education
1975     16,772      7,065         42         26,791        1,364         5
1976     24,980      8,054         32         14,444          823         6
1977     28,336      9,235         33         18,058        1,095         6
1978     31,683     10,043         32         17,832          967         5
1979     37,324     11,169         30         21,255          972         5
1980     36,807     11,585         32         21,858          984         4
1981     41,170     13,105         32         21,650          703         3
1982     41,352     13,566         33         19,790          499         2
1983     41,357     13,360         32         16,110          503         3
1984     44,218     14,678         33         19,436        1,101         6
1985     54,324     14,255         26         24,597          912         4
Note:  Including SENA; figures may not correspond exactly with those in Table 1,
due to rounding.
Sourcet Ministry of Education



-31-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 3
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
ACTUAL, 1975-87
(Colq Millions of 1980)
Year    Primary   (2)  Secondary  (2)    Higher   Z    Others   2   Total           Z
1975    10,660   (51)    4,940   (23)    4,130   (20)   1,310   (6)  21,040  (100)
1978    13,430   (45)    6,980   (23)    4,970   (17)   4,500  (15)  29,880  (100)
1980    15,300   (42)    7,940   (22)    5,340   (15)   7,560  (21)  36,140  (100)
1982    19,380   (48)   10,610   (26)    8,260   (21)   2,090   (5)  40,340  (100)
1984    19,750   (43)   13,470   (29)    9,720   (21)   2,850   (6)  45,790  (100)
1985    20,130   (42)   14,370   (30)   10,450   (22)   2,950   (6)  49,700  (100)
1986    21,200   (40)   15,900   (30)   10,600   (20)   5,300  (10)  53,000  (100)
1987    22,400   (40)   16,800   (30)   11,200   (20)   5,600  (10)  56,000  (100)
Source:  1975-1984, MENIDNP
1985-1987, DNP/Bank estimates
Table 4
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
ACTUAL, 1975-87
(Colt Millions of 1980)
Year    Primary   (2)  Secondary  (Z)    Higher   Z    Others   Z   Total           2
1975      1,010   (25)       770    (19)   1,830   (45)       450  (11)   4,060  (100)
1978         510   (20)      500    (20)      330   (13)   1,190  (47)   2,530  (100)
1980         440   (15)      530    (18)      580   (20)   1,380  (47)   2,930  (100)
1982         150   (10)      220    (15)      440   (30)      660  (45)   1,470  (100)
1984         170    (5)   1,210    (35)       340   (10)   1,710  (50)   3,430  (100)
1985        300   (25)       300    (25)      120   (10)      480  (40)   1,200  (100)
1985         440   (25)      450    (25)      180   (10)      710  (40)   1,780  (100)
1987         590   (24)      250    (10)      750   (30)      910  (36)   2,500  (100)
Total     3,610            4,230            4,570           7,490         19,900
Average      450   (18)      530    (21)      570   (23)      940  (38)   2,490  (100)
Source:  1975-1984, Ministry of Education and National Planning Department
1985-1987, National Planning Department and Bank estimates



-32-
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 5
CURRENT EXPENDITURES AS A SHARE OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES,
BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION
(Percentage by Level)
Level               1982            1984           1986
Primary               99             100              99
Secondary             95              97             99
Higher                95              97              98
Other                 67              39              45
Total                 96              92             93
Primary + Secondary  98               99              99
Source:  Ministry of Education, National Planning Department, and
Bank estimates.



-33-                            ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 6
RECURRENT COSTS PER PRIMARY STUDENT
IN OFFICIAL (PUBLIC) SCHOOLS - 1987
(US$ of 1987)
Recur.ent
Number of               Expenditure            Unit Cost
Students ('000)          (US$ Millions)             (US$)
Antioquia                492                    39.0                      79
Atlantico                115                    11.0                      96
Bogota, D.E.             312                    31.7                     102
Bolivar                  136                    10.7                      79
Boyaca                   163                    18.3                     112
Caldas                   109                    12.4                     114
Caqueta                   33                     5.1                     154
Cauca                    127                     8.9                      70
Cesar                     60                     6.0                     100
Cordoba                  132                    11.4                      86
Cundinamarca             200                    25.2                     126
Choco                     49                     6.6                     135
Hiula                    101                     9.9                      98
La Guajira                37                     3.7                     100
Magdalena                 86                      9.5                    110
Meta                      73                     5.3                      73
Nariffi                  120                    11.7                      98
Norte ie Santander       119                    11.9                     100
Quindio                   49                     5.6                     114
Risaralda                 77                     8.2                     106
Santander                190                    20.2                     106
Sucre                     81                     6.4                      79
Tolima                   168                    14.1                      84
Valle del Cauca          302                    21.4                      7!
Territories              116                    22.9                     197
TOTAL                3,447                   337.1                      98
Source: Ministry of Education.



-34-                             ANNEX 8
Page 9 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Tabl- 7: PUBLIC (OFFICIAL) PRIMARY EDUCATION TEACHERS REQUIRED BY REGION,
ASSUMING AN INCREASE IN THE STUDENT-TEACHER RATIO
Stud*.nt-Teachor Ratio          Teacher Re  troments
(1986)            Assuming Impro'    'ficiency e
Region          Urban    Rural      Total       Urban    RurA.    Total
Valle            89         81        87         483    (168)      315
AntIoquia        a6         81        84        (779)    892      (387)
Atlantico         84        84        84         475      91       s67
Bosota           84         29        84        (181)   (832)    (506)
Bolivar          88         as        84        106    1,817   1,422
Sucre             83        34        84        (136)    624       489
Moto             82         80        81        (209)   (272)    (481)
Cesar            8O         81        8o         220     856
Boyaca           8O         29        so        (794)  1,448       849
Risaraida        8o         28        28        (886)   (36)      (371)
Tolima           29         81        80      (1,070)    44    (1,026)
Qulndio          29         27        28        (847)   (77)      (424)
Santander        29         26        27      (1,012)   (16)  (1,027)
Cunmreca         28         26        27      (1,187)   (143)  (1,280)
Cauca            28         25        26        (653)   (69)      (802)
NariRo           28         19        22        (681)   (59)      (740)
Hulla            27         27        27        (653)   116       (587)
N.Santander      26         27        26        (727)   121       (606)
Territ.          26         22        23      (1,088) (1,980)  (8,068)
Cordoba          25         82        28        (853)  1,618       760
Caqueta          25         26        25        (106)    182        77
GuajIra          25         24        26        (161)    (69)    (220)
Magdalena        24         30        26        (594)  1,418       824
Caldas           28         24        28      (1,211)   (288)  (1,479)
Choco            22         26        24        (499)    243      (256)
TOTAL            81         28        29    (1',811)    4,979  (6,832)
* Assumes a student-teacher ratio of 89 in urban and 81 in rural aroas,
figures in paronthesTo represent a surplus.
Source: Ministry of Education data, National Planning Department
calculations.



-35-
ANNEX 8
Pago 10 of Ii
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 8: PROGRESSION AND EFFICIENCY OF A PRIMARY COHORT, 1982
Yeors     First    Second   Third   Fourth   Fifth      Total   Graduates
1982      1,000       0        0        0        0         0
1988        428     475        0        0        0       899         0
1984        179     345      288        0       0        812         0
1985         76     190      293      190        0       748         0
1986         32      98      201      287      187       700         0
1987         14      44      115      186      194      562        114
1988          6      20       60      118      167       871       161
1989          2       9       29       66      114       221       139
1990          1       4       14       36      67        120        94
1991          0       2        6       17       38        62       s6
1992          0       1        8        8       18        8o        80
1998          0       0        1        4        9        14        15
1994          0       0        1        2        4         7         7
1995          0       0        0        1        2         8         a
1996          0       0        0        0        1         1         2
1997          0       0        0        0        0         1          .
1998          0       0        0        0        0         0         0
Student-years      1,784   1,182    1,011       868     750     56,40       628
Drop outs            176     109        47       45       0       877
Promotion*           824     715       66s      628     623     8,45
Years Repeated       784     368      296       195     127     1,710
X Repeated          42.8X   80.3x    29.ax    22.6%   16.9X      80.9x
School yro. per
promoted student    2.1     1.7      1.5       1.4     1.2       1.6
Over-aged
- 1 or more yr.     42.8x   59.8%    71.6%    78.0X   81.7X
- 2 or more yrs     17.9X   30.6X    42.6X    60.6X   65.9x
- 3 or more yrs      7.6X   14.5X    22.8x    29.1x   33.6X
SUMWARY OF AVERAGES:
Student-years/graduate                           8.9
Years of schooling per student                   5.5
Grades of school passed per student              8.6
Cross dfficiency (considering only dropouts)   62.3X
Net efficiency (consid-ring only repetition)   69.1X
Note: Figures may not add due to rounding.
Source: Ministry of Education data and Bank *stimaNtes



-36-                            ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 11
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 9:  PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES FINANCED BY
THE DEPARTMENTS, 1970-1983
(In Some Representative Departments)
Primary                           Secondary
Department    1970    1975    1980    1983   1970   1975    1980        1983
Antioquia *    58.8    31.6    19.4    0.8    62.8   75.5    30.5    13.5
Atlantico *    43.2    20.0       0.0    4.3    57.4   35.8      0.0      0.0
Bogota *       62.5    38.4    11.1    0.7    39.8   45.5    10.4        1.4
Boyaca         17.8    15.4      3.8    2.3    59.3   57.2    25.2       0.0
Cordoba        18.5    22.9      1.0    0.0    44.6   73.1       6.7      0.0
Tolima         35.9    17.6      0.0    0.0    50.0   50.1       0.J     4.3
* Departments considered to be more developed.
Source: Colombia: Education Finance And Efficiency, Report No. 6587-CO;
IBED Sector Memorandum, April 1987.



-37-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 8
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Selected Issues in Sector Management 1
Overview
1.       The present structure for educational management, dating from
1968, comprises the central Ministry of Education (MEN), including a semi-
autonomous fund for channeling investment, departmental (or territorial)
Secretariats of Education, and parallel regional and territorial funds
(FERs) set up mainly to administer resources transferred from the center.
In addition, nearly 40 semi-autonomous agencies operate in the sector,
managing and channeling funds to special activities (e.g., special
education, science and technology development). At the central level,
responsibilities for policy guidance and technical support to the regions
have been mixed with heavy responsibilities for direct operations at
educational institutions, despite the rapid expansion in the number of
schools over the past 20 years and an ad hoc deconcentration of selected
administrative responsibilities over the same period. In view of recent
emphasis on increased decentralization of both administrative and fiscal
responsibilities for education, both organizational and functional changes
are required in sector management arrangements. Revised arrangements,
including simplified procedures, need in particular to compensate for
weaknesses in regional managements at present, only a few of the most
highly developed departments are able to manage effectively plans, programs
and budgets for education.
Management Issues
2.       Organization and Functions.  The central MEN is currently
organized around three, main technical units, the Directorate for Teacher
Training, Curriculum and Educational Methods; the Directorate for
Educational Administration and Inspection; and the Planning Office, OSPE.
A separate, semi-autonomous agency, the Colombian Institute for School
Construction (ICCE), was directly responsible for physical works and
standards until its dissolution in 1987. A weakness in the current
structure is that the two main Directorates have overlapping functions in
the areas of development and supervision of curricula, teacher upgrading
and teacher supervision. In addition, the Directorate for Administration
and Inspection is burdened with direct responsibility for supervision of
operations at some 1,000 secondary schools located throughout the regions.
The OSPE has a strong capacity for needs assessment as an element of
planning, but lacks systems for comprehensive monitoring, evaluation and
medium- and long-term planning for the sector. A new management
1/  This annex does not assess management capacity or issues in higher
education. Although the MEN is responsible for policy for higher
education, universities and other post-secondary institutions operate
autonomously of the Ministry.



-38-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
information system for the MEN (to incorporate regional data) has been
developed under the Bank-assisted loan, 2192-CO. However, the subsystems
planned have not been fully introduced. In other management areas, needs
are not systematically addressed at all through the present MEN structure.
Included are the areas of teacher relations and career development, and
regional management support and coordination. The current limitations of
the MEN's structure and focus preclude strong policy management and
planning guidance roles, as well as provision of technical support for
planning and operations at decentralized levels.
3.       The Sidcretariats of Education in the regions are meant to parallel
the MEN in terms of organization and responsibilities for managing overall
operations for educational institutions (public and private). In practice,
a general shortage of qualified staff results in varied organizational
artar.Zements within the Secretariats. In carrying out the policies and
programs established at the center, the regional Secretariats face the same
limitations as the MEN. They generally have adequate capacity for
assessing local needs. However, planning is largely limited to annual
programming and budgeting exercises, and regular monitoring of educational
quality and outcomes is lacking. As a consequence of staffing and budget
constraints for non-personnel items, technical supervision and support for
districts and schools is limited. Frequent turnover of staff and the
political orientation of the Secretariat. (Secretaries of Education are
appointed by Governors) compound these problems. An exception to this
pattern is local support provided by Experimental Centers, CEPs, located in
each of the regions. Unlike Secretariat staff, CEP personnel are MEN
staff, approved and appointed by the Ministry. The CEPs were originally
created to support reforms in curriculum and to provide related in-service
training for teachers. They continue to fulfill these functions and, in
addition, have increasingly taken on responsibilities for school and
teacher supervision in rural areas, especially through use of demonstration
schools designated in conjunction with the introduction of a revised
primary curriculum, the Escuela Nueva.
4.       The central fund (FONDO/MEN) and the regional FERs have distinct
responsibilities. The PONDO/MEN is responsible for financial management
and control of development projects and programs in the sector. It was
established to expedite project financing outside regular MEN channels.
insufficient staff in critical areas of expertise (financial planning,
disbursement, recording and reporting) have substantially reduced the
potential efficiency of the FONDOIMEN mechanism. The regional FERs, also
operating largely independently of the Secretariats, manage the financing
of most educational operations at the regional level, centering on the
teachers' payroll. The bulk of resources are transferred from the center,
though the FERs also administer regional funds allocated for the sector.
Further, where management capabilities are particularly weak, the FERs, as
decentralized agencies of the Ministry of Finance, tend to absorb
administrative as well as financial management tasks, often without the
desirable technical competence to do so.



-39-
AINEX 4
Page 3 of 8
5.       Fiscal Management and Control.  Organizational and staffing
weaknesses in the education sector are made more severe by inefficient
financing procedures. The budgeting process is especially complex and
legalistic. By law the budget must be balanced against legally available
resources at any one time. Early in the fiscal year, these amount, on
average, to 50 or 60Z of resources which ultimately become available. As
a result, several budgetary supplements must be negotiated, forcing
agencies through several time-consuming exercises each year. Not
infrequently, additional resources become available too late in the budget
year to be fully utilized owing to shortfalls in management capacity or
time. Further, linkages between capital and recurrent budgets are weak,
capital budgets cover only those resources provided through the central
government, and expenditure authorizations are often delayed, impinging on
timely program implementation.
6.       The complex procedures, together with the regions' preoccupation
with securing adequate funds, largely explain the short-term planning
horizon for the sector. In education, inadequate budget monitoring and
financial accounting systems further make it difficult to track actual
expenditures against planned. Experience gained under the current Bank-
assisted project confirms this difficulty: the Office of the Controller
General has been unable to fully audit project accounts in recent years. A
special effort is required to strengthen budget and financial control
practices in the sector while awaiting broader improvements at the central
level. (Efforts to streamline financial management procedures established
ity the core agencies at the center have been initiated in the past few
years, but changes have not been effected).
7.       Decentralization Initiatives.  A recent trend towards devolution
of administrative and operational responsibilities for education has not
been a constant process forward; secondary schools, for example, were
managed departmentally for the period prior to 1980. The process of
decentralization has, however, been launched with renewed emphasis over the
last several years. The main thrust of recent administrative reforms has
been fiscal. Law 14 of 1983 strengthened local (municipal) revenue raising
powers; to date, the impact is evident primarily in large cities (the four
largest cities account for about 60Z of municipal revenues). Law 12 of
1986 has broader objectives and aims to: increase resources and encourage
fiscal efforts in smaller municipalities, in part by increasing the
municipal share of revenues from the national sales tax; transfer
administrative responsibilities in parallel with increased resources; and
improve municipal management efficiency by reducing the number of national
agencies working at that level.  Although the amount of increased municipal
resources to be transferred to the smaller cities is expected to rise only
gradually (table attached), the direct management of these and other
locally generated resources will require new skills at the municipal level.
In particular, Law 12 transfers administrative and financial management
responsibilities for all civil works in the social sectors to the
municipalities. Approaches to supporting the new functions in the
municipalities have not yet been systematically developed and considerable
support from the departments will be required initially. The replacement
of appointed mayors with elected mayors, initiated under Law 12 in March
1988, needs to be monitored in this context.



-40-
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
8.       Planned Mana2ement Improvements.  In view of weaknesses in
management structure, capabilities and practices in the education sector,
the MEN commissioned an independent management review during 1987.
Recommendations of the review included a modest restructuring of the MEN
and a broad sharpening of technical support functions at the center and
operational support functions in the departments. The recommendations were
accepted by the MEN and approved by the Congress in January 1988 for full
introduction by January 1989. In the specific areas of fiscal management
and financial control, and preparation for civil works management by the
municipalities, revised practices have been, or will be introduced through
the proposed Second Subsector Project for Primary Education, and are
described in   Annex 6.  At all administrative levels, the reorganization
provides an opportunity to strengthen planning, programming and financing
effectiveness. The new information system planned, the SIED, will be an
important tool in this regard (the SIED is also described in Annex 6).
9.       Revised Organization and Functions.  The organizational charts for
the current and proposed MEN structures are attached to this Annex. The
chief differences are a reduction in the number of offices reporting
directly to the Minister and a consolidation of key educational management
functions under a single secretariat and of administrative functions under
a second secretariat. The Planning Office, OSPE, would continue to report
to the Minister. The main advantages of the new central structure would be
the unification of educational oversight functions to avoid the duplication
of effort encountered in the current structure, and the restructuring of
the administrative offices to include divisions for career development for
teachers and for coordination of regional education operations. In
additioL, a new department for physical resources would be added to the
Secretariat for Administration. This would replace the ICCE, whose staff
would be appointed to the new division and to divisions to be established
in the regional Secretariats of Education. The MEN restructuring further
includes the abolition of a large number of the semi-autonomous agencies in
the sector in keeping with new, decentralized responsibilities and
objectives for improved coordination by the MEN.
10.      With the exception of the creation of small regional units for
physical resources guidance, the organization of the regional Secretariats
of Education would not be significantly altered. A flexible approach to
strengthening key functions would be maintained since these agencies would
continue to face a lack of sufficient qualified staff in the foreseeable
future.
11.      In the cases of both the MEN and the regional Secretariats, the
number of staff is expected to be held relatively constant. Reorientation
and training for existing staff, and for new staff appointed to fill
vacancies occurring through normal attrition, would be provided.
12.      Principal changes at the MEN level include the following.  The new
Secretariat for Educational Techniques and Pedagogy will specialize in
curriculum and methods development. It will also assist the regions in



-41-
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
introducing and implementing revised curricula, materials, etc., and
oversee the educational aspects of system evaluation. It will similarly
advise on, but no longer administer, in-service teacher training. The
Secretariat General will drop all the direct supervisory responsibilities
carried by its predecessor and focus instead on support for development of
the regional and district offices. The Division for Development of the
Teaching Profession will be responsible for labor relations and for the
control and welfare of some 200,000 teachers. Tie Physical Resources
Division will coordinate and set standards for civil works and for
procurement of furniture, equipment and materials. The OSPE will focus on
sector monitoring and evaluation of development policies and programs,
medium-term planning and coordination of allocation of national and
regional resources. It will be strengthened by the addition of a new data
processing division.
13.      The regional Secretariats will provide advisory and technical
support services to districts and schools. Staff will be organized around
planning and information management, physical resource management, quality
control, and personnel manageme-it and supervision functions.
Administrative decision-making powers will be allocated with slight
variations among the regions, depending on management capacity.
Essentially, more regional control (especially in respect of financing
decisions) and central support would be organized for the lesser developed
departments.



gj
0
c                                                     ~-1  *"  - -  -    - 
NM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
aiuo
no"X }elmd-                        s                                  .
P-mo"         X I3 I   I            1P I                      i"
-1t m X1 Xq[$ [X}  __ mw-3
uXM                   '~ --l       l              r'        l
%own
_"o_  L                                           *           ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~omt"
LI                                                                                              _  -  - - -  --I-I
6861 .i oPg   s..wme o.pib
sNlmlm rnwm mm Olrow 4WOUWN ONO=
400 aS  lv         |z  <00



-43-                      ANNEX 4
rage , of 8
SECOND SUIISECOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDtUCAtlON
ORG^ANIZTION CKH*T OF THE MINISTR Of EDUCATION
OAPWd fr JcUIY '1989
oieF              r  A   _v 
LII
tvsp  a
I                                                        am II
o1wl IwQQj
ter                                       r    
40"4 --C 
~    fw        I                      s p
SXX    X X~~~~~~~~~~~~&WQ*W
r,  3LXE-E1<



-44-
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 8
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table
ESTIMATED ANNUAL INCREASE IN MUNICIPAL REVENUES
FROM THE NATIONAL SALES TAX
(1988-1992)
US$  million                            US$ thousands
Total       Large            Small        Average Large   Average Small
Municipalities   Municipalities   Municipalities  Municipalities
1988      57           38              19              2,235               19
1989      61           40              21              2,353               21
1990      68           45              23              2,647               23
1991      77           51              26              3.000               26
1992      88           58              30              3,411               30
Sources 1988, Ministry of Finance
1989-1992, based on Ministry of Finance data for 1988 and projected
rates of increase and fixed proportions as between the large and small
municipalities.



-45-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
COLUMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
The ESCUELA NUEVA
1.       The Escuela Nueva program comprises a set of educational inputs
(software and infrastructure) designed to provide the full, five-year
primary education cycle in small, rural schools. This program, the result
of almost a decade of experimentation, was officially launched in 1976 in
500 schools in three departments. By late 1987, the program had been
extended fully to about half of all rural primary schools.
Program Obiectives
2.       In providing the full primary cycle, the Escuela Nueva aims to
improve the quality and efficiency of pr4mary education in the rural
setting. It further aims to integrate the student, school and community in
the educational process. The program incorporates multigrade teaching
techniques (many rural schools comprise only one or two classrooms). It
includes semi-programmed learning materials, small resource libraries and a
simple classroom design which allows groups of students to work on
assignments appropriate to their grade levels and progress. Older students
assist in supporting learning groups to allow the teacher or teachers to
manage up to five grades simultaneously.
3.       The Escuela Nueva curriculum is rural-oriented and flexible.  Some
materials are drawn from the community (e.g., a local artisan may be asked
to prepare clay for small children to form letters or numbers); other
materials, while prepared at the center, also relate to typical community
situations and encourage questioning and experimentation by the student.
4.       The curriculum recognizes differences in student aptitudes and the
inevitability of student absences, especially during periods of peak
agricultural activity. It thus incorporates a flexible promotion policy
that encourages students to progress at their own speeds and to reenter
school after periods of absence. Students advance on a learning unit basis
rather than a grade basis. Emphasis is given to student assessment and to
provision of remedial assistance, as needed. Student monitors and
community members may be asked to assist in the provision of remedial
support for students.
The Educational Package
5.       The Escuela Nueva is supported by an educational package which
includes materials, teacher and supervisor orientation and training, and
use of demonstration schools. Physical inputs include the teaching and
learning materials, tables and chairs for students, desks and chairs for
teachers, a 100 book library and a small shelf for the books and materials.



-46-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
6.       The materials include guides for students censisting of sequential
activities and exercises.  Teachers receive a basic teaching guide, a
practical teacher's manual and remedial materials.  Teachers and
supervisors are prepared for delivering the program through a one-week in-
service workshop prior to introducing the materials and two follow-up
workshops, also of a week each.  The first workshop comprises an
introduction to the materials and other elements of the program, the role
of student leaders and helpers, and the layout and upe of 'activity
corners" for different learning groups. The second workshop is devoted to
use of the library, promotion procedures and multigrade teaching. The
final workshop reviews the earlier sessions and concentrates on educational
evaluation and preblem solving. (Recently, a similar orientation to the
Escuela Nueva was incorporated into pre-service training for primary school
teachers.) The workshops are provided through departmental centers
established to support educational reforms (the CEPs).
7.       School supervision is a critical input for implementing the
Escuela Nueva. Designed to provide follou-up support for teachers, it
emphasizes the pedagogical functions of thi supervisor, rather than school
inspection functions. Supervision, mainly carried out by the CEPs, has had
a positive impact on the program, despite shortfalls attributable to
problems of communication, transportation and general budgetary
constraints. Demonstration schools, run by particularly creative
principals and teachers, have been designated to provide supplementary
support and informal workshops for groups of nearby Escuela Nueva teachers
interested in specific topics. At present, nearly 3,000 such schools have
been identified.
Evaluation
8.       Sustained evaluation of the Escuela Nueva shows sound results.
Most notably, evaluation outcomes confirm that the Escuela Nuev- is a
viable means for providing the complete, primary cycle in rural areas. The
most recent evaluative data were published in December 1987. The study,
undertaken by consultants to the MEN is entitled Evaluacion del Programa
Escuela Nueva en Colombia. It is included in the Project File, as listed
in Annex 12.
9.       The 1987 evaluation covered a sample of 168 schools using the
Escuela Nueva program and 60 traditional rural primary schools. The
majority of Escuela Nueva institutions had three or less classrooms while
the majority of traditional schools had four or more classrooms.  The
average number of children enrolled was 44 for the Escuela Nueva and 83 for
the traditional schools. A shared characteristic of note was that over
half of all students included in the survey reported that they worked
outside school hours, and 40Z reported some monetary earnings. Several
variables were compared under the study through tests designed to measure
creativity; self-esteem; self-evaluation of civic and social development;
and achievement levels in mathematics and Spanish. Overall outcomes are



-47-
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
summarized in a table attached to this annex. Somewhat surprisingly, the
evaluation concludes that self-esteem levels (not shown in the table) are
similar for the Escuela Nueva and traditional program students. (Earlier
results indicated that self-esteem among Escuela Nueva students was
higher.) A slight, but statistically significant result was obtained in
favor of the Escuela Nueva students in terms of civic-social behavior.
Most significantly, academic performance was consistently higher for
Escuela Nueva students than for students in traditional schools for third
grade mathematics and for fifth grade Spanish and mathematics. The
academic achievement outcomes are all the more significant when the pre-
Escuela Nueva condition of the relevant, sample schools (offering less than
the full cycle, with inadequate supporting inputs) is considered, and when
delays and shortfalls in arrival of Escuela Nueva guides and materials over
the past several years are taken into account. In addition, the results
argue for the success of the multigrade approach to teaching (the Escuela
Nueva schools in the sample averaged less than 2 teachers each while the
traditional school averaged over three teachers each).
10.      Other points evaluated and vorth mentioning are the generally
positive assessment of the Escuela Nueva by teachers (about 80Z in favor),
increased participation of the teacher in community activities, and
increased participation of parents in school activities and children's
homework assignments. In terms of dropout, the difference between the
Escuelp Wueva and traditional schools was nominal, with most occurring in
grades one and two. Finally, though the concept of repeating a year does
not exist per se in the Escuela Nueva program, a proxy comparator is
students' subjective assessment of falling behind their classmatess by
this measure, 471 of Escuela Nueva and 57? of traditional school students
report that they had repeated one or more years of schooling.



-48-
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
SUMMARY: SIGNIFICANT TEST DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN THE ESCUELA NUEVA AND TRADITIONAL SCHOOLS
BY DEPARTMENT SURVEYED
Self-Concept           Math        Spanish
Department     Creativity   Civic  Academic   Social Gr.3  Gr.5  Gr.3  Gr.5
1.  Boyaca                                                       N
2.  Caldas                     N                                 N           N
3.  Cauca                                                        T
4.  CordoDa                                                                  N
5. Cundina-
marca                    N                           N      N     N     N
6. Huila                       N                  N              N     N     N
7. Narino           T                                                  N     N
8. Santander
del N.                              N
9. Santander
del S.          N         N                   N       N      N     N
10. Sucre           T                                     T
11. Valle                                                        T
Total National                 N                  N              N     N     N
N - Significant differences in favor of the Escuela Nueva
T - Significant differences in favor of the traditional schools
Blank - No significant differences



-49-                 ANNtEX 6
Page 1 of 22
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR SECONDARY EDUCATION
Description of Project Components
Policy Component
1.       The project centers on a series of policy objectives and targets
designed to strengthen resource allocation, use and mobilization for
primary education and basic education, more broadly. The policy objectives
adopted by Government are set out below and summarized, together with
implementation strategies and schedules, in the Plan of Action for Policy
Implementation and Management Development and in a policy letter prepared
by the Minister of Education (attached to this Annex). Policy measures
related to teacher-use and studies on the future financing of higher
education would be financed directly under the component. Implementation
of other policy measures would be supported mainly through provision of
technical assistance and training included under the project's management
component.
2.       Recurrent Expenditure Composition and Teacher-Use Policy.  In part
to raise the share of non-personnel expenditures on primary education, the
Government has adopted a policy to improve the efficiency of teacher use.
Policy measures center on curtailing growth of new teacher positions, and
introducing improved incentives for surplu. urban teachers to relocate to
areas, mainly rural, where supply is short. Slots vacated through regular
retirements in areas of teacher surpluses would be transferred initially to
meet the shortage of 5,000 teachers identified in rural areas. Temporary
teachers, already financed through the central government would be
appointed to fill the gap. To effect the policy measures, agreement was
reached among three key actors -- the Ministries of Planning, Finance and
Education -- to make available under the project the resources equivalent
to the contract salary costs of these teachers, whose numbers would decline
from 2,500 to 500 annually over the six-year period 1989-1994. Additional
project financing would be used to provide incentives for relocation or
retention of teachers in remote or otherwise difficult locations.  The
significant savings which would accrue to the combined policy mechanism of
transferring vacant slots and providing relocation incentives, compared
with establishing and filling new permanent posts, is described in the text
of the appraisal report (para. 2.4). This savings would more than
accommodate the targetted increase from 1Z to 3Z in the share of recurrent
expenditure allocated for non-personnel inputs for primary education.
3.       Outcomes of the policy to improve the efficiency of teacher
placement will depend largely on the Government's ability to negotiate
productively with the main teachers' union, FECODE, to reach agreement on a
phased payment of its present debt to the teachers' pension fund. A policy
to limit the hiring of new teachers is already in effect. Key incentives
for relocating existing teachers would be the provision of subsidies for
teachers' housing and a family plan for health insurance. Other



-50-                             ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 22
incentives, already used selectively, include salary bonuses, couple
placements, housing improvement allowances, rapid promotion tracks, early
retirement for teachers assigned in difficult locations and opportunities
for supplementary education and training.  The MEN completed a detailed
assessment of the current use and potential savings from revised deployment
of the existing stock of teachers during May 1988. At negotiations, the
Government presented its plans and a schedule for using project funds to
finance salaries and incentives for teachers to serve in rural areas.
4.       Expenditure per Primary School Graduate and Promotion Policy.  A
policy to reduce repetition and dropout has also been adopted to improve
efficiency in resource use for primary education. Under the revised
policy, children would be promoted from unit to unit ant grade to grade on
the basis of mastery of core skills and knowledge throvghout the school
year, rather than at a fixed, end-of-term date. In prActice, the revised
policy, called 'automatic* promotion by the Government, is not expected to
eliminate entirely the need for additional schooling beyond the planned
five year cycle. Instead, it is expected to reduce the average student-
time spent in each grade. The policy is particularly well-suited to the
revised rural curriculum, the Escuela Nueva, and to a similar programmed
learning approach used in urban schools. These curricula are designed to
compensate for different rates of student learning as well as non-school
related dropout.
5.       It is expected that between 1988, the first year in which the new
policy will be effected, and 1993, the average number of years of schooliing5
required per graduiate would decline from the current 8.9 to about 6.6
(Table 1). This would represent a 27Z decrease with a corresponding
savings in cost per graduate. The reduction in the share of students
repeating a year, from the current 302 per year to about 152 per year, will
further permit the enrollment of children aged 7-11 not currently attending
school without significant requirements for incremental resources. The
target for reducing the average years of schooling required per graduate,
as well as progress towards reducing the share of (mainly) over-aged
children enrolled, would be monitored continuously under the project. The
MEN has prepared a detailed plan of operation for introducing the revised
promotion policy.
6.       Investment Expenditure and Programming Policy.  In line with
overall development objectives, investment policy for the primary subsector
has been redefined by the Government in its six-year investment program.
Under this program, capital expenditures for primary education would
increase from 20S to around 352 of public education investment during
1989-94. Priority would be given to disadvantaged population groups.
Investment allocations correspond with need, with less well-off departments
and within departm'ents, municipalities, designated to receive higher shares
of investment relative to school-aged populatiou. On this basis, about 75Z
of direct investment would be allocated to rural schools. Investment
allocation criteria for civil works were developed by the MEN on the basis
of a survey conducted on a 12 sample of households covered in the 1985
national census. This survey assessed 'basic, unsatisfied needs' as an
indirect measure of poverty. Indicators, defined by DANE (the National
Statistics Department) identified: inadequate and overcrowded housing;
lack of access to basic services (e.g., water and sanitation facilities);
insufficient income (this indirect measure identified households with more



-51-                           ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 22
than three dependents per person employed, wher- the head of household had
less than two years' education); and households with children aged 7-11 not
attending school. Results are shown in Table 2 of this annex.
7.       The DANE data were then adapted by the MEN as the basis for
allocation of investment resources, together with inventories of existing
primary school resources (including teachers) by department and territory.
Management capabilities were also considered. Based on these assessments,
the MEN then organized the regions in four groups, which coincide largely
but not entirely with the DANE listing of regions. This final grouping is
also designed to serve as a tool for scheduling in view of anticipated
requirements for implementation support from the center. A list of the
four main groups and a description of investment criteria are attached.
8.        Central-Regional Cost-Sharing and Resource Mobilization Policy.
The Government has also adopted a policy to encourage and increase local
contributions to the financing of primary education, beginning with the
investment program planned for 1989-1994. Targeted levels for municipal
cost-sharing have been tentatively established through a MEN survey of
available resources in 50 small municipalities. They average 20Z of the
total cost of civil works and represent under 1OZ of total incremental
revenues available to the municipalities surveyed under Ley 12. The
targets are based on conservative assumptions on the use of incremental
municipal revenues from the national value added tax (IVA) (Annex 4, para.
7 and Table), which take into consideration the priority given to providing
or improving civil works for education as well as the other social sectors.
However, in the interests of mobilization of additional resources,
municipalities would be encouraged to exceed the target. In addition, the
departments would be expected to finance 52 of total coets of the civ3'
works investments for primary education, in line with recent contributions
to investment expenditures. The central Government would provide financing
for the remaining costs of civil works investments in primary education.
During implementation of the investment program, the departments would also
be encouraged to contribute additional financing to the program.
9.       Financing Policy for Public Higher Education.  The subsector
program for primary education would not address directly the issue of
financing arrangements for higher public education. It would, however,
include a series of studies designed to support the formulation of future
policy. The studies would be managed by the DNP and carried out through
ICFES, the Colombian Institute for the Development of Higher Education.
They would contribute to a broader effort to reassess allocation of
resources for education by level. Included would be review of alternatives
for reducing direct government subsidies for higher education (e.g., for
student tuition, board and transport), together with proposals for
expanding credit &vailable for students from lower incomp backgrounds.
Other topics include the design of an information management system for
higher education and analysis of costs by type of activity and financing by
source, and of quality and marketability of graduates by type.



ANNEX 6
-52-                         Page 4 of 22
Management Component
10.      To support effective policy and program implementation for basic
education, the project includes support for selected improvements in
management. The component builds on the restructuring of the MEN currently
underway (Annex 4). Consultant services and training would be provided to
strengthen the technical support capacity of the MEN and the operational
support capacity of the regional Secretariats of Education.   Specifically,
the component would aim to: introduce key elements of the HEN information
system, SIED, and develop capabilities for improved planning; strengthen
budgeting and financial management within the MEN system; and improve
implementation capabilities at the local level. It would also include
financing for studies to prepare future projects outside the primary and
secondary subsectors, to be managed by a joint DNP-MEN committee.
11.      The SIED and Planning.  The project would support the final design
and introduction of the main parts of the planned SIED. The SIED, to be
managed by OSPE, is designed to support three systems: (a) a planning
system, to include establishment inventories, educational achievement data,
socio-economic and demographic data and budget and cost information; (b) a
documentation and bibliographic system, including data on program and
project management; and (c) a personnel management system, including statf
profiles, and potentially, payroll data. While not fully computerized,
the planning system is largely in place in respect of needs assessments,
programming and budgeting for basic education. Policy monitoring and
educatio'al evaluatLiu  uUbsystems, also required for planning, have not yet
been developed. These are needed by OSPE to strengthen coordination and
support for medium-term planning, carried out on a four-year rolling basis.
The National Executive Secretariat, the coordinating unit for the proposed
project, is currently developing the project management system. A new
central computer facility has been procured with Government resources
during 1988 for the SIED.
12. The OSPE would be responsible for the introduction of the SIED and for
orienting the regions on its use.   The content of related training and
technical assistance, to be provided by the MEN, would vary slightly in
accordance with regional capacities and would be designed primarily for
regional planning staff in the Secretariats and for staff of the CEPs (for
management of educational evaluation data). The project would finance
outside consultant services (10 staff years local) for completing
development of the SIED and for training and technical support for some 90
regional staff (amounting to 360 staff-weeks local training).
13.      Programming and Budgeting.  Programming and budgeting practices,
under control of the MEN and the regions, would be strengthened during
project implementation to reinforce the multi-year planning objectives and
to reduce the level of ad hoc programming changes currently resulting from
the fragmented process for budget approval, authorizations and
expenditures. In addition to upgrading regional planning staff, the MEN
plans to strengthen staff programming and budgeting capacity under the
project. It would provide training for central and regional staff to
improve knowledge of detailed requirements and procedures. A manual on



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 22
budgeting procedures was completed by MEN during April 1988. It would
further institute systematic technical follow-up to encourage timely
resolution of problems as a technique for expediting the budget and
expenditure processes. Regular mechanisms for exchange with counterparts
in the Ministry of Finance and DNP, and their representatives in the
regions, as well as continuous monitoring of the budget, authorization and
expenditure process, would also be established. The long-term adviser,
recently retained by the FONDO/MEN, would assist to prepare instructions
and seminars for regional staff with the objective of improving the
budgeting and expenditure process under the project. The project would
include financing for the central and regional staff training for about
100 staff (200 staff-weeks local).
14.      Financial Management and Control.  The project also includes the
introduction of an improved system for financial management and control
under development projects executed by FONDO/MEN. The system, designed by
a consultant retained by the Bank, was approved by the MEN and introduced
in September 1988. The objective of the revised system is to clarify and
simplify procedures for project and program accounting and auditing,
including procedures for civil works to be managed by the municipalities.
The project would include financing for training for FONDO/MEN, FER and
financial staff in the MEN system (600 staff-weeks local). Additional
staff were appointed to the FONDO/MEN to complement and support the
improved financial management system (Annex 7).
15. Project and Program Implementation. The project would also include
support for the regions in the area of project and program implementation
to strengthen overall implementatiPn capacity. Advisory services (70
staff-years local) would be organized and training and other support
(equivalent to some 550 staff-weeks training, local) would be delivered
through the National Executive Secretariat for the project. Particular
needs would be identified through the monitoring of project implementation
and addressed on a systematic basis. Though the technical support would be
designed specifically to resolve implementation problezs under the project,
the aim would be to institute longer-term improvements. Training would
also be provided in project management skills for central MEN staff
involved in project management (30 staff-weeks foreign, 200 staff-weeks
local).
The Primary Education Deve.1opment Component
16.      The primary education component of the proposed projecL comprises
the bulk of planned expenditures. The main objectives of the component are
to improve educational quality and access to the full, five year primary
cycle for children in rural and marginal urban settings. It aims to
increase the completion rate of rural students from about 20Z of those who
enter school to the national average, 60Z. It centers on the provision of
supporting inputs for the introduction (or completion of introduction) of
the Escuela Nueva program in rural primary schools, but also includes
inputs, primarily textbooks and furniture, for urban primary schools
lacking educational resources.  The component further includes the
introduction of systematic evaluation of student achievement at the primary
level and an experimental extension of basic education beyond grade 5, to
cover the lower secondary cycle in rural areas. Greater detail on the



ANNEX 6
-54-                            Page 6 of 22
background and content of this component is provided ir. the Government's
preparation document, available in the Project File (as listed in Annex
12). Assessed needs for rural schools and quantities and schedules for
providing physical inputs are shown in Tables 3, 4 and 5.
Rural Inputs
17.      The rural subcomponent would finance textbooks, teachers' guides
and simple school libraries; school furniture; and facilities upgrading for
schools introducing the Escuela Nueva. In addition, teacher orientation
and training on use of the ne-w curriculum and materials, as well as on
revised promotion practices and educational evaluation, would be provided.
The management and financing arrangements for each of these inputs is
described in Annex 7.
18.      Materials.  The Escuela Nueva materials are designed to compensate
for the previous absence of teaching and learning materials in rural areas.
They center on a set of student learning guides, designed for rural
schools. The materials comprise one to three guides per major subject
matter area (mathematics, Spanish, social sciences and natural sciences)
per grade, and a set of teachers manuals which complement these and provide
orientation on teaching methods. The school library, included in the
package, also complements the curricula and includes basic reference
materials and educational aids (e.g., atlases, dictionaries) and is
intended for community as well as school use. Remaining needs for Escuela
Nueva materials. for an estimated 300,000 students at 4,000 schools, have
been determined on the basis of assessments completed during 1987-88 by the
regional Secretariats of Education, validated by the planning staff of the
MEN. A targetted ratio of 2 students per student guide has also been
adopted. The number of schools to receive materials during 1989-94 is on
the order of 29,000. This is explained by the plan to replace texts and
relate. materials on average each four years, or 25Z annually, at all
Escuela Nueva schools. Quantities of materials to be delivered are
estimated on the basis of average numbers of students per school, and will
need to be adjusted to meet actual requirements in the course of the year
of purchase.
19.      Teacher Training.  Under the project, Eecuela Nueva teachers would
participate in workshops designed to enable them to manage successfully the
five grades of the primary cycle, whether in a school with one or more
teachers. The training covers four subjects: orientation to the
curriculum and promotion procedures; use and preparation of materials;
management of school libraries; and student follow-up and evaluation. The
training courses are provided and managed by the regional CEPs in
accordance with MEN guidelines. Tutors are drawn from CEP staff,
supervisors and district directors as well as master teachers. The formal
training, comprising three sessions of five days each, would be
complemented through use of 'microcenters' supported by regional CEP staff.
These comprise groups of teachers, both experienced and less experienced
with the program, which focus on common concerns and interests, e.g., use
of materials, adaptation of materials, preparation of supporting materials.
Both the training and the microcenters would be conducted in demonstration
schools, of which some 2,800 were designated by the beginning of 1986. The
use of these schools provides opportunities for direct observation of
successful use of the Escuela Nueva as well as a local, and thus



-55-                              ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 22
economical, venue for training in all but the most remote areas. The
initial training and follow-up small group sessions would be provided to
coincide with the delivery of materials. The training, including the costs
of materials, supplies, transport and subsistence, as required, would be
financed under the project. In all, about 20,000 teachers would
participate.
20.      School Furniture.  To further support the introduction of the
revised rural curriculum and to cater for the school-age'd population group,
basic school furniture would be included under the rural subcomponent for
about 13,000 schools not previously served under the Escuela Nueva program.
The basic package, earlier designed by ICCE, comprises a teacher's desk,
student desks and a table and shelves for each school. The school
furniture would be financed under the project.
21.      Civil Works.  Based on needs assessments and existing capacity,
the Government plans to expand coverage of primary education without
establishing new facilities. However, a substantial share of existing
school facilities is dilapidated and in need of replacement or
rehabilitation and of sanitary facilities, including provision of water and
sewerage services. As a contributor to school quality, such facilities
would be upgraded under the project in accordance with investment criteria
established. Based on regional assessments and MEN verification exercises,
it is estimated that 70Z of rural primary schools require infrastructure
upgrading (after discounting for recent inputs under other programs,
including rural development and national rehabilitation programs  and works
provided through the Coffee Growers Federation). Of this 70Z, about half
need classroom replacement and half renovation. Investment criteria
adopted are to service the needs of 25Z of the relevant schools in the
first and third groups of regions (excluding coffee growing areas) and 55Z
of the relevant schools in groups two and four (and including selected
areas of Antioquia, Boyaca, Cundinamarca, Tolima and Meta) (Attachment 2).
On this basis, some 3,600 schools would be provided with replacement
classrooms (1.6 each, on average) and some 700 schools would benefit from
classroom upgrading under the investment program. The project includes
financing for these works an_', where needed, sanitary facilities.
Urban Inputs
22.      This subcomponent would provide for textbooks for about 1.0
million children in government primary schools in urban areas lacking
materials. The materials are designed to support a revised curriculum,
called the Renovacion Curricular, introduced in all Government primary
schools in urban areas by 1985. To this end, some 3.3 million textbooks,
to be used two students to one set of materials, would be provided.
Classroom materials, also designed to support the curriculum would
similarly be provided (for about 30,000 classrooms). The subcomponent
includes financing for the provision of short-term training for about 6,500
teachers in the use of materials to be provided and of revised promotion
and evaluation procedures.                                               I



ANNEX 6
-56-                            Page 8 of 22
Educational Evaluation
23.      To monitor and improve educational quality, both in rural and
urban primary schools, the project includes the deeign and introduction of
a system for educational achievement testing. As proposed, the testing
system would include three main parts: teacher-administered tests in each
primary grade in mathematics, reading and writing (initially in 400 schools
in eight regions); supervisor-administered tests in the same schools and
subjects; and externally administered tests in grades 4 and 5 (initially
for 30,000 students). The examinations would be developed, tested and
adjusted during the period 1989-94. The aim of the tests would be to
improve evaluation capacity at the school level and to provide departmental
authorities comparative information on student achievement. The
infornation gained would permit the Secretariats of Education to begin to
identify and rectify school as well as curriculum-related impediments to
student achievement. The examinations would form the base for the
permanent evaluation system and should, in particular, provide early feed-
back on the impact of the revised promotion policy on quality. Results
would also be used to identify needs for revised learning materials,
teacher training, etc., and incorporated into the SIED as part of the MEN
planning system. The project would finance system development (orientation
for teachers is built into the teacher training programs described above).
Extension of Basic Education and Studies
24.      The project includes an experimental component which would test
delivery systems for providing education beyond grade 5 for rural youth.
Earlier experiments, which required transporting students to centers of
higher population density, have proved costly and ineffective. A recent
evaluation of the Escuela Nueva (Annex 5) confirms this judgement: over
half of rural primary students contribute to family income and cannot
attend school outside of the community. The component is thus designed to
extend the Escuela Nueva model, using existing primary snhool facilities,
through grade 7 or 8. Alternatives to be assessed include incorporation of
the additional grade levels by teachers during the regular school day and
use of teacher-tutors after school hours and on week-ends. Some distance
learning techniques would also be tested under the experiment, which would
incorporate use of radio materials. The experiments would be mounted in
eight districts, each with about 20 Escuela Nueva primary schools, and a
trained coordinator and evaluator. The MEN has also named a central
coordinator for the subcomponent. The project would finance the
preparation or adaptation of prototype materials, training for teachers,
program delivery and evaluation.
25.      The project would also support a MEN subsector study to assess
requirements and financing prospects for a broad expansion of lower
secondary education and a selective expansion of upper secondary education
beginning in the early 1990s. The OSPE would manage the study which would
be carried out by consultants and financed under the project. Draft terms
of reference for this subsector study, completed by OSPE, were reviewed by
the Bank during negotiations. They include a focus on comparative costs,
sources of funds, quality of education provided in both the public and
private sectors and on potential for increased private and local
contributions for secondary education.



ANNEX 6
-57-                                  Page 9 of 22
Attachment
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRTMARV FMUCATT4N
Letter of Subsector Policy
Office of the Minister
of National Education
Bogota, October 7, 1988
Nr. Barber Conable
President, World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable:
The Government of Colombia wishes to request a loan of
US$100 million from the World Bank for the Universal Basic Primary Education
Program, which is the central component of the present Administration's
education policy.
1.        General Policy Framework
Universal Basic Primarv Education is one of the key programs of the
Social Economy Plan, the guidelines of which have made it possible to achieve
high and sustained economic Qrowth while at the same time improving the
quality of life for the entire population, with emphasis on the poorest
communities and regions. According to the Plan, state investment aimed at
full utilization of the-nation's human potential is one of the foundations of
the new pattern of development.
The present Administration is accordingly promoting decentralization
and regional autonomy and guarantees the means for implementing the project to
create a society that is more productive and more egalitarian, with the
participation of all, within the framework of efficient state intervention.
Public investment is oriented toward providing, as a first priority,
physical, productive ane social facilities for the low-income communities and
regions located in rural and urban areas, by means of three interlinked sets
of programs:  the National Rehabilitation Plan, the Integrated Rural Development
Plan and the Anti-Poverty Plan.
To meet the priorities of the Social Economy, the social and
infrastructure sectors providing health, educaUinn, social security, justice,
water, energy and road and communications services, are mndifying the internal
composition of their expenditures and being allocated additional resources
derived from the general macroeconomic reorganization.
2.        Education Sector Policy
The education policy of President Barco's Administration is based on
the acknowledgment that basic education is an essential right of all citizens,
an indispensable component of collective wellbeing, a key instrumenL for the
democratization of society and a vital foundation of national development.



ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 22
-58-
The central strategies of the education policy are: guaranteeing
basic education for the entire population, by means of universal formal
primary education for children and young people of school age and extension of
the informal basic education programs for adults; improving the quality of
education through provision of appropriate means of instruction; and raising
the efficiency and efficacy of the education system by means of better general
administration and equitable and rational resource allocation.
Accomplishment of these policy objectives will entail a major
redeployment of capital investment. Both the national budget appropriations
and the resources furnished by technical assistance and the proceeds of loans
for investment in education are being allocated primarily to financing of the
requirements of the basic primary educat!.on level. The resources allocated to
this level were increased from 5S of the sector capital budget in 1985 to
around 25% in 1987 and 1988.
The introduction of universal basic primary education has the
following specific objectives:
-    creation of the conditions necessary for ensuring access to primary
education for all children of school age;
-    extending the education offered to fifth grade of primary in all
public schools in order to provide full primary education;
-    adapting the education strategies to the regional conditions in
order to improve quality and prevent students dropping out.
These objectives are being achieved by means of coordinated measures
comprising teacher training, provision of textbooks for students, teaching
materials and furniture, repair or construction of classrooms and allocation
of an adequate number of teacher positions. These measures are being carried
out through a specific program based very largely on the Education Development
Plan for Rural Areas and Small Population Centers partly financed by World
Bank Loan 2192-CO.
3.        Background and Status of the Universal Basic Primary Education
Program
The Education Development Plan, execution of which was started in
0982 and will conclude in December 1988, has made it possible to meet the
needs of primary education in three of Colombia's departments and to extend
the "New School" methodology to their rural areas. The investments made under
the Plan total US$43 million, US$14 million of which was provided by the IBRD
loan and US$28 million from domestic funds.
The experience of this projict and the conclusions of the Education
Sector Study performed jointly with the World Bank, served as the basis for
formulation of the present education policy, the current investment plan and
the Universal Basic Primary Education Program.



ANNEX 6
59.                                  Page 11 of 22
The Colombian Government made investments of Col$3,080 million in
1986 and Col$3,600 million in 1987 in implementation of the Universal Basic
Primary Education Program. Investments amounting to Col$4,100 million are
under way in 1988.
In the rural areas, these funds have been used to train about 9,000
teachere, to provide textbooks and instructional materials to 430,000 students
and 9,000 teachers, to provide libraries for 13,000 schools, to supply desks
and furniture for 149,000 students and 6,500 teachers and to upgrade the
physical infrastructure of 250 schools. In the low-income urban areas
textbooks have been provided for 290,000 students and 108,000 teachers have
been trained in comprehensive evaluation techniques so that automatic
promotion can be instituted.
For execution of the program during the period 1989-94, the
Government's efforts will need to be complemented by loan resources from IBRD
in order for the objectives set to be accomplished and the results achieved so
far to be consolidated.
1
4.        General Characteristics of the Program for 1989-94
The continuity and consolidation of the Universal Basic Primary
Education Program is based on an investment plan prepared jointly by the
Ministries of Education and Finance and the National Planning Department, with
advisory services provided by the World Bank. Both the education policy
described and this investment plan were approved by the National Economic and
Social Policy Council (CONPES) at its sessions of January 28 and August 30 of
this year.
4.1 General goals
The proposed goals for 1989-94 can be summarized as follows:
Guaranteeing access to basic education for all children of
school age and to achieve full coverage.
-    Continuation of the flexible student promotion policy, which will
substantially increase the number who complete the basic primary
cycle. In rural areas, the percentage of children completing the
basic cycle will be increased from 20% to 601, while in urban areas
the increase will be from 62S to 95S.
-    Training of about 20,000 rural teachers in the "New School" methodology
and of 6,500 in urban areas.
-    Supply of textbooks free of charge to all students in official
primary education.



ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 22
-    Provision of filing cabinets, cla&sroom boards and suitable
furniture for students and teachers for 13,000 rural schools and
2,100 urban schools.
-   Repair of classrooms at 719 rural schools and construction of new
classrooms at 3,655 rural, scbools.
4.2  Teacher assignment and incentives.
The program coverage goals require appropriate distribution of the
present teacher positions to meet current needs and the planned increases in
enrollments.
The studies made of the present distribution of teachers in official
primary education show an unreasonable concentration in some urban areas
coupled with needs for more teachers in various municipalities and especially
in the rural areas. In a study made for CONPES at the beginning of 1988
concerning the requirements and expansion of coverage, the National Planning
Department identified a surpEus of about 12,000 teachers located chiefly in urban
areas while, at the same time, 5,200 were needed to staff the expansion of
rural schools. From this and similar studies it is concluded that the
distribution and utilization of available teaching personnel for primary
education need to be rationalized.
Taking into account that there are legal restrictions on
transferring teaching personnel, the Ministry of Education, with the support
of the Ministry of Finance and of the National Planning Department, has drawn
up a program for the relocatinn of teacher positions falling vacant on account
of voluntary departures, retirement or death. The vacancies that can be used
to meet the teacher shortage are estimated at 3.52 of the teaching force each
year. To ensure the timely provision of all the teachers required,
arrangements have been made for them to be hired temporarily on a contract
basis until they can be assigned to the respective vacant positions.
Rationalization of the distribution of the available teaching
personnel will be effected by means of the following mechanisms:
(A)  Transferring of the excess posit'Lons in some urban areas to other
areas short of teachers needed to meet thL requirements of primary
education.
(B) Normalizing the status of the teachers hired on a temporary basis
("Soluciones Educativas") by progressively incorporating them into
the permanent teacher force. The number of temporarily contracted
teachers is currently 2,500.
(C)  Provision of the teachers required in the areas where coverage is to
be expanded, either by assigning them directly to permanent
positions or by means of temporary contracts. Those hired on
temporary contracts will also be guaranteed transfers to permanent
status within no longer than one year. In both cases, positions
falling vacant for the reasons already noted will be used. By means



ANNEX 6
-61-                                 Page 13 of 22
of this mechanism 5,000 teacher positicna will be gradually relocated.
To assure equity in the employment conditions of teachers working in
areas of difficult access, it is intended to establish specific incentives.
4.3 Civil works component
The financial, technical and operating arrangements for this
component have been based on the categorization of the municipalities
according to their tax revenues, their ability to contribute and their
institutional development asad education infrastructure needs.
The technical aspect includes permanent updating of the local
diagnoses, advisory services for the preparation of municipal projects, the
design of infrastructure works and project supervision.  This technical work
wi..l be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education's Directorate of
School Construction.
The financial side will involve administration of the resources of
this component by the specialized financial intermediary and the cofinancing
comitment of the municipalities in accordance with their fiscal resources, as
determined by the parameters laid down in the categorization criteria
applicable to municipalities.
For execution of most works, The Ministry of Education Fund will
conclude agreements with administrative subdivisions (departments,
intendencias, comisarias and municipalities) end decentralized agencies
competent to administer the bidding and local construction processes.
5.        Cost and financing
The total cost of the program between 1989 and 1994 is US$159.2
million.  The Colombian State will contribute US$48.2 million, the departments
US$3.0 and the municipa'lities US$18.0 million, making a total local counter-
part of US$69.2 million. External loan funds in the amount of US$100 million
will cherefore be required to complete the financing of the program.
With best regards,
Isl Manuel Francisco Becerra Barney
Minister of National Education
Note: The MEN has targetted a higher share for municipal contributions to
financing of civil works than the more conservative target described
in the SAR.



COLOMBIA        -62-                                            ANNEX 6
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION                                      ME 
Policy Letter Attachment - Sumaary Plan of Action for laplesenting Policy                    Page  14  of  22
and Management Support Measures
Objective          Agency (ies)          laplesentation               Supporting        ilmplementationO    Expenditure
Responsible          Strategy/Target                M Measures         Target Date  1       Inputs
:POLICY OBJECTIVE    I                  I
:1. Resource Use                         -curtail hiring of          -issue a ministerial           Done       - None
A. Iprove teacher  MEN, ONP, HOF*, :new teachers for              Idecree
:use efficiency        Teachers' unions'priaary level                                                         ,
I                        II,             ' Teacher' I
Otransfer vacant posts &  :-complete the detailed   - 01/89             Salaries and
deploy excess primary       'plan & schedule to                       :incentives for re-
Oteachers to fill gaps,    :introduce incentives   1                   deploying teachers
i                 :mainly in rural areas      :to effect redeployment '
:of teachers & begin
Iredeployment
I-introduce incentive      - 01/92
'package
:               '       ~        ~~~~~                                                          ~ I  I  '  I 
:B. Revise coapo-         M MEN, HOF,    :-raise non-salary share   :-introduce system to   : - 06/89          -technical
:sition of recurrent I    Regions       :in recurrent expenditures,Omonitor composition    I                  !assistance and
:expenditure for      :                 Ito about 31 by 1993,       :of recurrent costs       Itraining
:primary education   I                  :based partly on improve-
m,ents in teacher use       '
:                                             I I  a,
:C. Reduce               M MEN, Regions  :-introduce revised        H-issue a ministerial   I       Done      O-teacher training
:expenditure per                        : :student Promotion practiceldecree                                  : :on use of revised
primary graduate                        :with aim of reducing cost/I                          I               Ipromotion practices:
graduate by about a        I-design I introduce a  1       3/90
tthird by 1993              Osystem to monitor the                     -technical
O                           ' impact of new                           : lassistance and
I                 I                           Ipromotion system                         :training
:D. Enhance invest-       MEN, DNP,    I-strengthen allocation    I-update needs                   Annual    '-technical
aent programming    I    Regions       :criteria for investments  lassessaents for                           :assistance and
:for prisary                            Ito give priority to less  Oschool inputs                             :training
:education                              Iwell-off regions & schools:                          ,
I-introduction of        I     Done
I                i                           Ivariable criteria for
IO                '                           Ifacilities upgrading
:11. Resource         I
Mobilization        I                                              I
:A. Strengthen cost-      M MEN, ONP,    I-introduce targets for    :-introduce procedures  :  Ongoing    I-technical
:sharing for primary       Regions,    'departmental I municipal  Ifor municipal cost-                        :assistance
:education              Hunicipalities Icontributions for primary !sharing for civil works: 
:education, initially for    
Ifacilities upgrading       l-monitor progress w.          Annual
Icost-sharing, & adjust
Itargets as needed
:B. Assess alter-    IDNP, ICFES, MEN I-conduct policy studies I I-prepare final TORs    1          12/88    :-provision of
:native sources of   I                  Iforsulate recommendations,:                          ,financing for
financing for         I                 i. emphasis on financing I:-complete studies & I            8/91      :the studies
:higher public        I                 Ipotential for increasing  Ipresent results for
:education                              Iprivate contributions &   Ibroad Government          1
:reducing Govt. subsidies  Iconsideration
:               '                 '~~~~                                                         ~      ~ I  ,  I
-j   ;,--    .  r



-63-                                                           A    eX 6
COLOMBIA                                                         Page  15  of 22
SECOND SUBSECIOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Policy Letter Attachment - Suumary Plan of Action for Iaslementing Policy
and.Hanagement Support Measures (cont'd)
Objective           A gency (ies)  O      laplementation               Supporting         mleplementation'    Expenditure
Responsible   O      Strategy/Target                M Reasures        Target Date           Inputs
:MANAGEMENT            a                 a                                                    a               O
: OBJECTIVE            O                    clarify MEN technical   :-restructure the MEN  ,Reorganization'
: A. Improve the              MEN        !support functions           :(based on 1987 study  :approved by   O
:MEN's technical       Ofinanced under                                                        OParliament
:support and policy   O                  OLoan 2192-CO)                                       :for 1/89
:guidance capacity    ,                                               i
:- strengthen MEN capacity O-design & introduce       06/89          ' staff training &
Ito collect and analyze    Ofull planning and                        : technical assistance:
'sectoral data and          :project management                      :for design and
'inforeation, including    :systess of the SIED   'isplesentation
:policy & teacher use       '
OOanitoring                 5
'  incorporate educational O12/91
O                 :achievement data           O                        O
:1. Strengthen            M MEN, Regions   - regularize rolling plan    introduce the SIED  '  Ongoing    0 staff training &
MEN planning         '                  system                      O                       Otechnical assistance:
:capacity              '                 '                            'for medium-range
'                 '                           '                        O               'planning
:2. lprove MEN           M EN, Regions  :-clarify budget procedures:- prepare a budget    '        Done
:budgeting process    a                  land streamline cyclical   'manual
:primary graduate      '                 :tasks                       '                       I
:  '- introduce improved  '                                Done      :-follow-up technical:
a                 O                           :system for project    '                 :assistance and staff:
O              O a.rEaining
:3. Strengthen MEN        MEN, Regions   - develop an improved        - appoint a high-level!       Done      O
financial management '                   'accounting & financial    Oadvisor to the           '       
:and control                             : 'control system for        'Director, FONDO/MEN
IFONDO/MEN                  Ot
i                           ! O-design & introduce         Done     I-technical
I                 I 'the new system                                                   :assistance and staff:
training
appoint additional  O      Done      O
a                 ,a'staff to FONDO/HEN    ' a                                        a
:~~     ~       ~~~~~                                                         ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a            
O                 '                           '- create regular          r lo be set
O  '                        'FONDO/MEN posts                        O
:B. taprove regional  '   MEN, ONP,       - design specific programs:- introduce the             Continuous  :-technical
:implementation             Regions      :of MEN support to assist  moanagement and           Ofrom 6/89      :assistance and staff:
:capability,           '                 'the regions                 'monitoring system for                   training
:initially for                                                        :the primary educatinn                  a i
:primary education    '                  'project                                             a               a



-64-                           ANNEX 6
Page 16 of 22
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR SECONDARY -DUCATION
Attachment 2
Definition of Regior.al Groups and Investment Criteria
Regional Groups
1. The list and a description of the four groups of regions defined by the
MEN for purposes of determining investment priorities and scheduling are
provided below.
Group 1       Group 2        Group 3            Group 4
Boyaca        Bolivar       Antioquia           Arauca
Caldas        Cauca         Atlantico           Casanare
Cundinamarca  Caqueta        Bogota             Putumayo
Huila         Cesar          Valle              San Andres & P
Meta          Cordoba                           Amazonas
Quindio       Choco                             Guainia
Risaralda     Guajira                           Guaviare
Tolima        Magdalena                         Vaupes
Santander                        Vichada
Group 1 - These regions are the most highly developed in the
country, both in economic and administrative terms.
Group 2 - This group represents the regions with the highest
levels of unmet basic needs, as identified through the DANE study.
Administrative and implementation capabilities are such that considerable
support is expected to be required. This group also includes marginal and
violence prone areas of a number ef departments (Antioquia, Boyaca, Caldas,
Cundinamarca, Tolima and Meta).
Group 3 - The third group coincides with the most highly urbanized
regions in the country. Development activity and implementation
capabilities are comparable with those of Group 1.
Group 4 - This group comprises special territories and generally
shares the less favorable cmnditions identified with Group 2.
Investment Criteria
2.       In both urban and rural areas, the provision of textbubks, student
manuals, other materials and teacher training would be provided to all
government primary schools not reached over the past several years through
the Bank-assisted project or other government programs as a matter of
priority.



-65-                           ANNEX 6
Page 17 of 22
3.       The provision of school furniture in rural areas is also intended
to reach all schools not previously served.
4.       The main variation in investment criteria is attached to the rural
civil works, or facilities upgrading component. After accounting for
schools improved under the Bank-assisted project and other rural
development and rehabilitation programs in recent years, an estimated 702
of rural schools require facilities upgrading. Of this share, 552 require
c1assr, Em replacement and 45Z classroom improvements. Based on investment
funds available, it is planned to cater for 25Z of the facilities
requirements of rural schools in Groups 1 and 3, and for 552 of facilities
requirements in Groups 2 and 4, including selected parts of Antioquia,
Boyaca, Cundinamarca, Tolima and Meta.



-66-
ANNEX 6
Page 16 of 22
COLOIA
SECOND SUSSECTOR PROJECT FOit PRIMARY EDUCATION
Tablo I
PROJECTED PROORESSIONI AN EFFICIEKCY OF A PRIMARY COHORT
(19")
Years     First   Second   Third   Fourth   Fifth       Total  Cradustae
1962      1,000       0        0        0        0     1,000
163        200     750        0        0       0        960         0
1964         40     225      645        0        0       910         0
1986          8      Fs      253      555       0        673         0
1966          2      11       71      277     449        310         0
1987          0       2       17       69     270        376       404
1966          0       0        4       23      99        126       243
1969          0       0        1        C      29         35        89
1990          0       0        0        1       7          9        26
1991          0       0        0        0        2         2         7
1992          0       0        0        0       0          0         2
1993          0       0        0        0       0          0         0
i994          0       0        0        0       0          0         0
1995          0       0        0        0       0          0         0
1996          0       0        0        0       0          0         0
1997          0       0        0        0       0          0         0
1996          0       0        0        0       0          0         0
----    ----    - --      - ---    - ---   -- ---      - ---
Studont-yoers           1.250   1,042       995      961     8s6  5,094          770
Dropouts                   62      42        40       6e       0       230
Prootions                 936     896      86S       770     770     4,230
Years Roposted            250     104       100       95      es       634
N Repoeted              20.0%   10.0%    10.0%    iO.OX   10.0%      12.6X
School yre por
promoted student       1.3     1.2      1.2       1.2     1.1       1.2
Ovor-aged
- 1 or more yr.         20.0X   26.0%    35.2%    41.7%   47.53
- 2 or more yre          4.0%    6.43     9.3X    12.65   16.0%
- 3 or more yr.          0.6%    1.4X     2.2X      3.21    4.53
SUMMARY OF AVERAGES:
Student-years/graduato 6.6
Yocrs of schooling per student                         5.1
Grade. of school posed por student                     4.2
Gross officioncy (considering only dropouts)         63.OX
Not efficioncy (considering only repetition)         67.5%
Note,        Expected rateo for 1993
Orades     Ropsat      Dropouts      Proootion
1         20.0%         5.0%          75.0%
2         10.0%         4.0%          6.0%
3         10.0%         4.0%          36.0%
4         10.0%         9.0%          61.0O
6         10.0X         O.OX          90.0%



-67-                               A    6
Page 19 of 22
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 2
POVERTY INDICATORS BY REGION
(1935)
Housing Households Housholds
Region             Composite   Inadequate  Ovorcrowded  Locking    With          With
Indicator     Housing      Housing    Sorvicoe   Low        School-
(1)                                           Income        Aged
Children
(2)
Group 1
CHOCO                77.10       7.90        13.22        69.36     11.06      16.06
CORDOBA              69.71      62.46        12.00        63.96     16.65      13.29
SUCRE                67.70      48.99        13.75        61.24     18.22      13.07
ORINOQUIA (3)        66.32      26.12        16.9"        49.06      8.86      13.49
BOLIVAR              69.32      83.02        16.32        44.67     14.82      14.85
AMAZONIA  (4)        56.24       19.03       14.79        88.42      5.06      10.61
Group 2
BOYACA               66.06        8.80       14.04        44.19     10.66       9.19
MACDALENA            54.36      29.83        15.55        37.30     16.26      13.51
NARINO               53.79       15.60       25.01        30.63     10.29      10.77
CAUCA                52.71      20.11        14.59    . 32.62       11.54       0.39
CAQUETA              51.19       19.93       15.09        29.16     13.13      13.66
CESAR                50.96      19.94        18.41        31.95     18.73      12.15
LA CUAJIRA           47.21      14.86        12.93        34.18      9.61       7.20
Croup 3
NORTE SDER.          45.82       10.92       14.70        29.06     11.27      12.32
CUNDINAMARCA         43.82      11.90        12.87        29.38      8.15       6.05
HUILA                41.62       16.91        9.52        20.16     10.90      10.35
TOLIMA               40.46       15.23       10.16        20.83     11.18      10.07
META                 39.69      16.67        :2.67        18.57      6.99       8.29
SANTANDER            39.36       10.29       10.26        26.47     10.19       7.61
ATLANTICO            35.49        7.60        9.69        23.56      9.16       7.61
SAN ANDRES           36.28        2.865       6.3        2".3S        1.42      1.42
Group 4
ANTIOqUIA            31.94        9.27       11.00        15.52     10.09       6.97
VALLE                27.57        6.07       11.69         6.30      6.67       4.91
CALDAS               27.38        2.59        8.47         7.7      10.71       0.31
RISARALDA            26.62        2.86       10.06         6.42     10.66       S."
QUSI0o              21.66       1.96         0.30         2.20      9.91       7.62
BOGOTA               16.37        3.36       12.75         1.47      3.77       2.569
(1) Basic unsatis ied noed. A meoure of poverty In Columbia (X)
(2) Households with school-aged children not attnding school.
(3) Arsuca, Cacnare and Vichad
(4) Amazonas, Ousinio, Guaviroe, Putumayo, and Voupe
Source: DANE, 1965 National Census. Survoy of 1X of private households, *xcluding



ANNEX 6
-68-                                                           Page 20 of 22
COL014BIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRMARY EDUCATION
Table 3
Assessment of Investment Needs
In Rural Ares
By Department and by LTye of Need
O 111          F  OFICIAL  SIIIOLS          e     PI   TME Of l        I. SOUII L S       MMIIf  OP OFFICIU KA L S
I'     1914 *U.(  OF    to"            IN     1m     Nola                Om         su I  SIE  191                        5        5 1 S  197 I
DEPAITIENT OR   *   OPFICIU. PImY   i   TMCM I1 .    P133                  CLAUh    i  T         6    11.    P1   MAHAN" tEA113   TEIT.A   FIt.!  t   tU3
NlTIlL TER*.SCMOOLS T1E0M5  1T1 T81              TRINN1113   LIl   TUOE  1IT 11I V. t tRAINAIN   LIWIY  TtW    OM." T73INI    Lt31   TiE   CWRT..
NYsA               1700     3212     4315      1321      2n       1004      N42      iii      22.3     35         7.7      1.9       39      142        131       32
ULS                ?U7      1922    45642       5U       291      521       343      23       41.4      9.9      15.3      7.9       402      "'4       153      7t
C IDINIMICA        24..    4412   11745I       2004     1219      1347      642      704      10.5     42.5       4.1      0.0       23       95        134        o
HUILA              1029     I754    47450       53        20      534       357      317      44.3     93.1      11.9      2.2       47t     10o0      I         23
NETA               644      1090     222        543       19       250      24U      I91      15.4     97.0      39.3      2.5       100      624       2         It
0UIIID10           U39       407    10571       174      142       32        a        72      22.      V7.?      43.9      0.0        52      3U        100        0
RISARALJA          5t5      1015    24442       497      402       293      215       113     1.0      25.1      17.7      0.0        43      13        100 to
7OLIN            1509      2734    374b       1109      U54      319       547      4N4      21.2     43.4      15.2      L4        319      454       229       36
TOTAL NIEA I      flO0    1It1t   459129  U48           3315     4554      334      2740      22.9     42.7      14.6      2.1      2032     5545      1296      1H3
iULIVS             557      1485    53            0        0       204      175       143    100.0    100.0      42.7     13.3       557      557       23U      102
CAICA              1.40     342e   15301        700        0      996       h16      50$      57.3    100.0       4.2      3.3       940     14b0       103       55
C!1t               45t       706    17441         0        0      205       143      134    100.0    100.0       29.4      7.0      45t       45        135       32
CEWR               51t       757    2304U         0      222      25        172      141    100.0      57.0      23.4     13.4      516       29       121        49
CORDA               11      22m     72479        0         0      314       274      224    100.0    100.0       39.2     12.3      311       B11      313       100
C}MUC              450      1144    29734       73         0      12        i        142       3.6    100.0    S3..        0.0      377    450         164         0
6131IR4            223       713    17522       74       157       32        H        72     t7.5      31.1     43.9       0.0      154        71      1O0         0
:M                 322      1164354 5           156        0       52       104       17     50.9    100.0      74.6      14.3      144       22       241        4
DEPIRT. Km        34HO     4429   202444         0         0      452         0        0    100.0    100.0       79.2    100.0     3400      3400     2494      3400
SANTAI            12        3215     22U9      71        522     1114       730      59n     41.1      72.9       9.       1.7     1171      1407      lob        32
TOTA.L       2   10329    2155S   419545      175        901     3157      2500     2045     33.0      91.3     41.       37.1     WM7       942      4302       3U
UTIIJOIA          3330     4531   20051 1 97            1391     201       1301     1045      41.5     50.6       3.6      0.0     1403      1939      129         0
AILUlTICD           t4      255      172        57        57        4        25       20      10.9     10.S     90.6       0.0        7         T       so         0
3OUOTA               9       344     99         41        41       57        34      2U       53.9     53.9      0.0       0.0       43        46        0         0
LUE               127     2475    75612       ?13       7U       311       44       3"      43.3      43.3      Q.0       0.0      549       549        0         0
TOTAL MEA 3       400      9t05   29494       2793      2207     252    1i3         1512     41.6      54.0      3.9       0:0     2007      2593      137         0
A1U1A              341       611    14230      31        231      231       139      114      22.2     22.2       0.0      0.0       10        *0        0         0
IASIWE             404       624    15973       343     3S3       2K        156      124       10..    IO.e       O.Q      0.0        43       43        0         0
HTIUr              460       96     2212        290       e6      207       148      137      37.Q     95.7      29.6      5.2       !70      394       137       24
SANANDRIES           17?      I       927        17       17        11        7        5       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         0        0         ('
AMONAS              93       !33    453          45       t5       53        12       2t      21.7     21.7       0.0      0.0        16      I1         9         0
SUAlbIA             41       159     1304       35        39        26       It        13      7.3      7.2       0.0      0.0         3        3        0         *
i" E               itsl61    134     3440       11         0        42       45       37      22.0    100.0      44.9      v.O        2e      118       23         0
VAIPU               9        2E3     4i01        7?       77       t0        3t       29      17.2     17.2       0.:      0.0        14       to         O        Q
lSi OA             174       342.    01i1       121      1-l       64        52       4;       9.7      9.7 .-0            0.0        !        13        0         d
TOtA- AFEA 4      171      3146    714t1      1744      1(2      i75       450      532      21.5     40.0      11.1      1.4       le9      695      190        24
TUTAL CS1 I    25722    51244  1448233    12741         7451    1233       3344     412       50.5     71.0      23.2     15.7    12991    13271      5975      4043



-69-
!     6
i  i9je I2  of 22
COLOSBIA
SECUS SUBSECTft PROJECT FRlt PRIWRY EDUCATION
Table 4
SOLEDtE OF MRW        EMECTJN
RUAL CoWfE3S
1                           ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~199  1990  lWl     19#2       1W9      IL994
NuImbr   Numr    N_umr   Nu_mr    Numbemr   Nu mbr   Numbr
Schools  Schools   Schools  Schools   Schools  Schools  Schools
Input                  Year 1   Year 2      Year 8    Year 4     Year 5    Year 6    Total
Teacher Training
Total Colombia            8494      4221      2872         0         0         0      10568
Ara 1                     2099      2466      1846         0         0         0      6410
Area 2                     423      1S          0         0         0         0       579
Area                       5 a19    1061       674         0         0         0       2256
Area 4                     465       538       358         0         0         0      1844
Text A Library
Totel Colombia            C627         0      6962      9048      6527         0     29060
Ar" 1                     3815         0      2032     a353       3315         0     12196
Area 2                     208         0      2884      4845       208         0      8145
Area 3                    1976         0      1518       609      1746         0      6748
Area 4                    1028         0       529       156      1028         0      2741
Furniture
Total Colombia            1792      1981      1480      3140      1500      2900     12793
Are  1                       0         0         0      2072      1370      2059      6601
Aroa 2                    1185      1492         0       165         0       166      8007
Area 3                       0       389       969       903       130       676      B087
Arm  4                     807       100       511         0         0         0      1218
Classroom Substitution
Total Colombia             423       469       6s        991       492       489      8529
Aret 1                       0         0       188       817       147       185       837
Area 2                     423       468       812       260       190       124      1762
Area 3                       0         0         0       238        50       180       463
Area 4                       0        16      1i6        191       106         0       477
Clcssroom Upgrading
Total Colombia               0       878       341         0         0         0       719
Area                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Area 2                       0       378       841         0         0         0       719
Arms8                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Are 4                        0         0         0         0         0         0         0



ANNEX 6
Pag- 22 of 22
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PRMJECTFOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 5
PRIMARY EDUCATIdTrWmTmEN  COMPOt4F4T
SLICDL YOFPHSICL EXECUTION FOR UM8AI(TREAS
It_m            10S9      1990       1991        19         logs     1994
Per Proleot Area   Year 1   Year 2      Year S      Year 4     Year 5   Year 6    TOTAL
Textbooks Required    796256    627342      563106     396446    319997   585033    3278180
Teachere to             4297      2218                                                  6510
be Trained
Furniture                 e6       209        684         161       442      264        2029
School Matertal        6,889     18065       S2184                                     32038
(cl assrooms)



-71-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Project Management and Financing Arrangements
Organiz tion and Staffing
1.       The central project management structure is shown in Attachment 1
to this Annex. Overall management authority is vested in the office of the
Vice-minister, Ministry of Education, responsible for the investment
prograzl for primary education. At the policy level, guidance would be
provided by the National Committee on Universalization, comprising the
Vice-minister (chairman), heads of MEN offices involved with primary
education and the DNP's division chief for education. This committee would
also have approval authority for the allocation of project funds. Day-to-
day coordination of project implementation would be provided through the
National Executive Secretariat (NES) for the progra;.. Responsibilities for
implementation vary by component: in general, policy execution and the
implementation of management improvements would be managed by the MEN
together with the procurement of materials, equipment and furniture for
primary schools; teacher training would be implemented by the regions and
civil works by the municipalities with appropriate support. In cooperation
with the MEN, the DNP would manage the policy studies on higher education,
with support of ICFES, and other studies outside the basic education
subsectors. Planning, monitoring and evaluation for the program would be
provided through the National Executive Secretariat, with participation of
the OSPE. Administration of financial resources, including transfers to
regional FERs and control of funds for the program, would be carried out by
the FONDO/MEN.
2.       This structure, with minor variations, would be repeated at the
regional level, where guidance would be provided through an inter-agency
committee including the Governor (chairman), the regional Secretary for
Education and representatives of the regional office of finance and of
planning, as well as the CEP. The regional Secretariat would be
responsible for overall coordination of project activities. An important
management role at this level is assigned to the planning staff of the
Secretariats for Education: these offices would be responsible for annual
updates for programs, budget requests and budget and expenditure monitoring
under the investment program. Below the regional level, the districts
would continue to be responsible for providing information on primary
education requirements. In respect of civil works implementation, mayors,
municipal councils and municipal treasurers would a-so be involved directly
in project management.
3.       Based on implementation difficulties experienced under Loan
2192-CO (see Attachment 2 to this annex), management capacity of both the
NES and the FONDO/MEN have been substantially strengthened. The staff of
the Secretariat has more than doubled in size, to over 20. It comprises



-72-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 12
five main units for regional coordination (11 staff, each responsible for
three regions or territories), for programming and project information
management (3 professionals); for financial management (2 professionals,
assigned a permanent liaison and monitoring function vis-vis the
FONDO/MEN); and for technical support for procurement (4 professionals,
including experienced ex-ICCE staff). The unit is supported by five
secretarial staff. The regional coordinating group would be responsible
for arranging and providing technical assistance to the regions as
warranted to expedite project execution, and to compensate for variations
in experience in project management and implementation capabilities.
4.       The staff of the FONDO/NEN assigned to the proposed project has
been augmented from three under the ongoing project to some ten
professionals. Included among additional staff are a highly experienced
director and an advisor to the director (consultant), two accountants, a
records manager, a disbursements officer and a budget officer. In
addition, a payments officer, to support the Ministry of Finance
representative in the MEN, has been designated within the FONDO/MEN. One
of the accountants has been named financial director for the project. This
reinforcement of FONDO/MEN staff has been defined jointly by the Bank and
the NEN and judged satisfactory to correct deficiencies encountered in
financial management under the first project.
Main Implementation Responsibilities
5.       Specific technical control and implementation management
responsibilities are summarized in the list in Attachment 3.
Responsibility for expenditure management amd control applies more
generally. At the central level, the FONDO/MEN would serve as the main
financial agent. At the regional level, the FERs would serve as financial
agents, together with semi-autonomous financial entities and municipalities
in the case of civil works.
Implementation Procedures
6.       The implementation procedures for the policy and management
components are contained in the Plan of Action for these items (Annex 6).
The implementation procedures for the investment component for primairy
education are described below (and in more detail in the MEN's project
preparation document, available in the Project File).
7.       Textbooks and School Libraries.  The procurement and distribution
of student guides, textbooks and related materials, and of the libraries
for rural schools, will follow procedures used under the ongoing project
assisted by Loan 2192-CO. These procedures have been tested and improved
with experience and are considered efficient and appropriate for use under
the follow-up project. Under coordination of the NES, the Directorate for
Curricula of the MEN prepares detailed specifications for the materials.



-73-
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 12
Bid documents are prepared by the NES and FONDO/MEN. The bids call mainly
for printing or reprinting of materials available in the Colombian market.
Two bids are called per year, to correspond with the main peaks in the
budget cycle. Each bid package typically comprises three draft contracts,
to correspond with different types of materials to be acquired. Technical
evaluation of bids received is undertaken by a group of teachers specially
chosen by the MEN's Directorate for Teaching Methods. A procurement
committee of the MEN, headed by the Vice-minister, awards contracts in
accordance with evaluation outcomes. Contract payments are handled by the
FONDO/MEN. Contract prices include the costs of transportation of the
materials to regional warehouses. Final distribution is arranged by the
FERs. Support would be arranged by the regional coordinators of the NES
for less experienced regions to ensure appropriate transportation and
school delivery for materials.
8.       Teacher Trainin8.  Procedures for providing teacher training to
support the Escuela Nueva or the use of textbooks to be provided for urban
schools would also follow existing arrangements, which are satisfactory.
The NES communicates to the regions the training budget allocated.   A
contract is concluded between the MEN and the regional FER, which permits
the transfer of budget for direct use by the CEPs, which arrange, manage
and deliver an agreed program of teacher training.
9.       Furniture.  The implempntation procedures for acquisition and
delivery of furniture generally repeat those for textbooks and materials.
However, technical specifications were completely standardized by the ICCE.
As a result, bid preparation is carried out directly by procurement staff
of the NES. After its establishment, this responsibility could be
transferred to the new Department for School Facilities.
10.      Civil Works.  The procedures for executing civil works under the
project are new and have been designed to take into account both the
additional responsibilities assigned to the municipalities and the ongoing
decentralization of the ICCE. In view of the limited experience with civil
works of many municipalities, procedures, which are being tested initially
under the ongoing project and monitored continuously, call for a two-year
execution cycle for civil works in each region. Preparations would be
completed during the first year and works during the second (see
Attachment 4).
11.      The implementation of civil works would begin with an invitation
to the regions to participate in the subcomponent. The invitation would
include an instructional manual and be followed by a series of visits by
regional coordinators from the NES. The second phase of implementation
would lead to the preparation of agreements between the FONDO/MEN and the
department (one) for an agreed program of civil works, and between the
department and each participating municipality. These would include both a
description of planned works and a financing (cost-sharing) plan. The
financing plan would include, on average, a 20Z contribution from the
municipality for works and a 5? contribution from departmental



-74-
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 12
resources. These shares, and implementation procedures for civil works
more generally, would be assessed regularly during implementation and
adjusted as warranted.
12.      In most departments, implementation and financing would be
administered under a management contract with an experienced public entity,
normally, the Banco Central Hipotecario. ln cases of a few higly developed
departments, the Secretariats of Education and the FERs would serve as
management and financial agents; and in the least developed departments,
the central MEN would directly manage, or arrange for management of works,
as necessary. Works would be carried out under contract using regular
government procedures. }forks contracts would be awarded to firms or
individuals using local competitive bidding or local shopping. It is
expected, however, that a share of the value of works would be provided in
the form of community labor. The level of such inputs would need to be
costed by the finencial management agent as part of the total cost for
purposes of determining the municipal contribution. Supervision of works
would be arranged by the financial agent mainly through separate contracts
with engineers. Special accounting and auditing arrangements are being
developed for this subcomponent.
13.      Payments for civil works contracts would be as follow.
Contractors and supervisors would be mobilized on the basis of approved
budgets. Project accounts would be opened by the relevant financial agent,
based on three-months expected expenditures, to be used as a. advance.
Responsible municipalities would need to establish similar accounts in
their treasuries to make the actual payments to the local contractors.
Supervision fees (estimated at 5Z of the value of works) would be paid by
the financial agent. It is anticipated that one firm or individual would
supervise works in more that onie municipality.



-75-
ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
ATTACHMENT 1
CENTRAL PROJEiT COORDINATION - MAIN LINKAGES WITHIN THE MEN STRUCTURE
National Executive                                       MEN
Secretariat_
|  ONDO/MEN  __      Minister of
L~~~  Education
Planning         1l               _
l   l  Office    l  Vice-Minister          Nat'l Coord.
Director                                                of Education           Committee
Programming         -    -
6 Info.Mgmt _-                      -     _|       ,     - _ __
Financial                                Dept. for
Management                                    l                      Teacher
l                    Development
Regional Coord.                                l                 Regional Coord.
& Support        _      _   _   _   _       1   -               & Support Dept.
i    | Curricula|
Deot.
Procurement_          _ ___                   _
Support   _             _        _        _  _   _
edagogical
Methods Dept.
I        School
Faci _
I       DepDa



-76-
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
ATTACHMENT 2
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE UNDER LOAN 2192-CO
1.       Loan 2192-CO (originally in an amount of US$15 million) was signed
on 8/30/82 and became effective on 3/30/83. From the outset the Ministry
of Education encountered difficulties establishing the complex management
structure designed for the project. It took the MOE almost 18 months to
resolve its difficulties and assemble a project management organization at
the national and departmental levels. This was accomplished only after
adjustments were made on some of the unworkable elements of the original
management structure. Financial management responsibility was assigned to
the FONDO/MEN; however, this entity was not adequately staffed during the
first two years of project implementation. This created problems that not
only impeded project operations, but also later led to accounting and
auditing complications under the project. Unforeseen difficulties also had
to be resolved to achieve effective coordination between the project
implementation unit and the ICCE, the autonomous school construction agency
of the MEN, which also had responsibilities for the project's procurement
of textbooks and school furniture. All of these problems resulted in
implementation delays which plagued the project until 1985 when activities
finally began to move forward. In. 1986 the pace of implementation improved
significantly, enabling the MEN to request an extension of the project's
closing date, which the Bank eventually approved.
Project Management Structure
2.       The original project management structure called for the creation
of two parallel systems; one in the MEN and the other in each of the three
participating departments. Each of the systems depended heavily on close
coordination among the various elements, and operational manuals were
prepared to ensure the proper flow of activities and the expected degree of
coordination. The system at the national level consisted of an executive
committee headed by the Vice-minister with representation from the main
divisions of the MEN. This committee also included representatives from
ICCE and the DNP. All project plans, proposals, budgets, and local
subprojects were to be reviewed and approved by the committee, which was
expected to meet regularly to attend to project business. A national
executive secretary was appointed to function as a project coordinator, who
would act as the executive secretary for the national ccmmittee and
coordinate all project activities as they were implemented by the relevant
divisions of the MEN. In addition, the national executive secretary was to
coordinate the implementation of the project in each of the participating
departments. A relatively small staff of eight persons was assigned to the
executive secretary. These persons represented those divisions of the MEN
that would participate in the project.



-77-
ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 12
3.       At the department level the parallel system consisted of an
executive committee headed by the Governor and included representation from
the main subdivisions of the Secretariat of Education.  This committee was
to approve all aspects of project implementation and contract services for
project implementation. A departmental executive secretary and a staff of
three persons were appointed to assist the committee and coordinate
implementation activities through an administrative network that included
the Secretariat of Education, school district directors, directors and
local school teachers.
4.       The management structure described above did not work for various
reasons, including its complexity. At both levels (central and
departmental) the executive committees consisted of busy officials who
could not meet frequently for long work sessions to ponder implementation
strategies and review plans, budgets and schedules. Nor was it helpful
that the turnover of vice ministers and governors was (and is) high
(average duration in office, 6-8 months). After many frustrating attempts
the national executive secretary concluded that in order to get the project
off the ground, it would be necessary to simplify the structure for project
management and change the functions of the NES from coordinator to
implementor.   Moreover, the executive secretariat had to assume a
leadership role in each of the participant departments to get them properly
organized and trained. This included providing training and technical
assistance to departmental executive secretaries and district officers.
The administrative network envisioned at the departmental level became only
partially operational because the school district directors, who were to
have played a key role in linking the Secretariat of Education to the
schools, did net have the technical or political capacity for that task.
This led Secretariats of Education to create other informal mechanisms such
as micro-centers and demonstration schools to establish administrative
links with local schools.
5.       The end result of these management adjustments and changes is an
implementation structure that works, perhaps not perfectly, but adequately.
Parallel systems still exist but their functions have been altered.
Executive committees with the same composition as before now meet only when
necessary to review and approve major project implementation plans,
proposals, budgets and schedules which are prepared and presented by the
ericutive secretaries. One of the mobt interesting developments in this
process has been the effect that the NES has had on the MEN. By skillfully
directing implementation activities that affect the major divisions of the
MEN, the executive secretary gradually began to reassume more of a
coordinating role; the heads of the divisions are now accepting
responsibility for implementation activities.
6.       The management structure that emerged during the implementation of
the on-going project, has been adapted to implement the proposed project.
The modifications considered included: (a) increasing the staff of the
national executive secretariat given that the volume of work would
approximately double; (b) retaining the current secretariat staff, which
has remained very stable during the life of the current project, in order
to utilize their experience; (c) defining the role of the national



-78-
ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 12
executive secretary as a coordinator, who also has primary responsibility
for planning the implementation schedule; (d) creating a small but
efficient procurement unit within the national executive secretariat to
handle project procurement, given the gradual phasing out of ICCE as Law 12
goes into effect; and (e) clarifying responsibilities between the NES and
the FONDO/MEN for project management. With regard to the departmental
structure there was no need for mejor changes, since the inter-
relationships between the national secretariat and its departmental
counterparts were already clearly defined and generally satisfactory. The
role of the departmental secretariat is crucial to the success of the
project at that level, thus the training and technical assistance given to
that entity through the NES must be both timely and of the best quality.



-79-
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
ATTACHMENT 3
SPECIFIC MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
A. TECHNICAL MANAGEMENT
I. Overall Coordination                 National Executive Secretariat
II. Policy Component
Teacher use                             Teacher Development De-Artment
(Division on the Teaching Force and
Regional Posts), DNP and Ministry of
Hacienda, in cooperation with
teachers' unions
Recurrent Expenditure Composition       OSPE in cooperation with the
Ministry of Finance
Student Promotion/Achievement           Curriculum Department
Investment Planning                     koSPE
Cost-sharing                            OSPE
III. Management Component
SIED and Planning                       OSPE
Programming and Budgeting               OSPE, with support from the FONDO/
Improvements                          MEN
Financial Management and Control        FONDO/MEN
IV. Primary Education Investment Component
- Textbooks and School Libriries        Curriculum Department
- Teacher Training                     Methods Development Department
- School Furniture                      School Facilities Department
- Civil Works                           School Facilities Department
- National Testing System              Curriculum Department
Experiments with Post-primary
rural education                    Methods Development Department



-80-
ANNEX 7
Page 10 of 12
B. IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT
I.  Integrated Programming              OS'E
II. Primary Education
Investment Component *
Textbooks and School Libraries
-bid preparation               FONDO/MEN and NES with support of
the School Facilities Department
-procurement                   FONDOIMEN
-distribution                  Regional Office of Planning with
the FER
Teacher Training                        CEPs
School Furniture
-bid preparation               FONDO/MEN and NES with support of
the School Facilities Department
-procurement                   FONDO/MEN
-distribution                  Regional Office of Planning with
the FER
Civil Works
-bid preparation and           Municipalities with support of the
procurement                   management agent, department or
MEN School Facilities Department
-construction                  Communitylcontractor
-supervision                   Contracted engineers or firms
National Testing System
-initiation/experimentation   Curriculum Department/CEPs
-institutionalization          Curriculum Department,
CEPs/teachers
Experiments with post-primary           Curriculum and
rural education                         Methods Departments
*  Implementation responsibilities for the Policy Component and the
Management Component are assigned as for technical management.



-81-
ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 12
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Attachment 4
SCHEDULE FOR DEVELOPING THE CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT
Responsibli
Took                                                  Entity                  Month
Provide information to department on                  NES                     6/88
the process tor implementing the civil                (ceontral project
works componont                                       entity)
Provide department with description of                NES                     6/86
standards and estimated unit costs for
civil works
Prepare agreements between the FONDO/MEN              NES A FONDO/MEN         7-8/88
and the department
Select participating ounicipalitios based on          OSPE and                10/68
needs assessment information retained in the          Sec. of Education
Secretariat of Education
Instruct selected municipalities to budget the        OSPE and                l1/8S
requisite share of resources for the civil works      Sec. of Education
Inform the department on the total budget             OSPE                    9-11/88
available for civil works; sign agreemnt              (FONDO/MEN & Governor)
Report (agreement) from the municipality to           Payor a Sec. of         1-2/89
the department Accepting the proposed                 Education
budget and management and set-up and
Inform the center
Program the departmnt l component                     NES                     2-8/89
Incorporate progra  in the budget                     FONDO/MEN               3-4/89
Ensure that departmental budget rtflects              NES                     2-3/89
agree financing



-82-
ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 12
ResDonsible
Taok                                                  Entity                  Month
Design contract with the selected manage-             NES, FONDO/MEN A        7-9/89
ment agent, when relovent                             Directorate for
Construction, MEN
Inform tho department and municipalities of           NES                     7-8/89
the dotalls of the management arrangemnt
(i.-., with a Bank, the FER, etc.)
Revise or update list of participating                NES, OSPE, Sec. of      12/89
municipolities                                        Education
Refino the work program                               Sec. of Education A     1/90
Municipalities
Sign agre_mnt/contract with management agent          FONDO/MEN, agent/FER    3/90
Make Initial national end departmental deposits       FONDO/MEN, FER          4/90
In account of management agent
Make municpal contribution (in form of deposit        Management agent        6/90
or cowmunity participation)                           and municipality



-83-
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 1
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED, 1975-93
(ColS Millions of 1980)
Year    Primary   (Z)  Secondary  (Z)    Higher   Z    Others   Z    Total    I
1975      1,010   (25)       770    (19)   1,830   (45)       450  (11)   4,060  (100)
1978         510   (20)      500    (20)      330   (13)   1,190  (47)   2,530  (100)
1980         440   (15)      530    (18)      580   (20)   1,380  (47)   2,930  (100)
1982         150   (10)      220    (15)      440   (30)      660  (45)   1,470  (100)
1984         170    (5)   1,210    (35)       340   (10)   1,710  (50)   3,430  (100)
1985         ?e0   (25)      300    (25)      120   (10)      480  (40)   1,200  (100)
1986         440   (25)      450    (25)      180   (10)      710  (40)   1,780  (100)
1987         590   (24)      250    (10)      750   (30)      910  (36)   2,500  (100)
Subtotal  3,610            4,230            4,570           7,490         19.900
Average      450   (18)      530    (21)      570   (23)       940  (38)   2,490  (100)
1988         700   (28)      250    (10)      750   (30)      800  (32)   2,500  (100)
1989      1,050   (30)       350    (10)   1,600   (45)       500  (15)   3,500  (100)
1990      1,200   (40)       300    (10)   1,000   (33)       500  (17)   3,000  (100)
1991      1,750   (44)       400    (10)   1,200   (30)       650  (16)   4,000  (100)
1992      1,800   (45)       400    (10)   1.000   (25)       800  (20)   4,000  (100)
1993      1,500   (38)       400    (10)   1,200   (30)       880  (22)   4,000  (100)
1994         950   (24)      400    (10)   1,400   (35)   1,250  (31)   4,000  (100)
Subtotal  8,950            2,500            8,150           5,360         25,000
Average   1,280   (36)       360    (10)   1,160   (33)        770  (21)   3,570  (100)
Note: Figures rounded 1987-1992
Source: 1975-1986, MEN/DNP
1987-1992 DNP/Bank estimates



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
-84-
october 27, 1988                        SICOND
TABLE 2
ITEM                     Ij  1jjj                                   030  o  QUS$ of July 31
___________________ _       I   Y_l_ _    2l Si  gi S                  Ygi J t       TO
POLICY COMPONSNT
Teacher Salary A Incent.              4,707    3,765    6,066    8,158   10,354         917       33,968
Higher Education St2dies                 24        24        30       22         0         0         100
TOTAL POLICY COMPONUlT                  4,731    3,789    6,096    8,180   10,354          917      34,068
ANRAGEMINT DIEILOPEINT CONFORINT
TechRical Assistance A Traininl         209       209       209      209       209       209       1,255
Studies                                 264       264       330      242         0         0       1,100
TOTIL biAiGEIIT DPT. CONPORINT            473       473       539      451       209       209       2,355
PRIMIBY IDUCATION DITS. COMPONINT
MATERIALS
90tb1295 1                                        859    1'6                 "INs1'6   1,221     i3111
SUB-TOTAL MATERIALS                   4,379    1,859    3,216    2,845    2,073    1,224          15,595
TEACHIR TRINIING
RUBJL                                   711       869      591         0         0
WRAIN                                   108        56         0        0         0 0   5163
SOB-TOTIL TEACHER TRAINING              827       924      591         0         0         0       2,343
FURNITURE
gIAB{                                   82      2366     6                                             43   6 2f35 161 2   0
SN-TOTAL FURNITURE                    3,544    5,712    8,878   11,685    7,805    7,970          45,594
CLASSROOM UPGRADING I SUBTITOTION
RURAL                                 4,141    7,306    9,134   10,410    5,168    5,137          41,597
SUB-TOTIL CLASSROOM UP61.6 SUIT.    4,441    7,306    9,134   10,410    5,168    5,137            41,597
STUDIIS                                   616       6!6       770      565         0         0       2,568
SUB-TOTAL STUDIES                       616       616      770       565         0        0        2,568
TOTAL PRIM.EDUC.DITt. COMPOINIT        13,807   16,418   22,589   25,505   15,046   14,331         107,696
TOTAL BASI COST                        19,010   20,681   29,225   34,136   25,610   15,157         144,119
PITS. CONTIn.                             lot       i9      1,209    1,298       814      196        61776
DASt + PIY.CONT.                       19,671   21,580   30,434   35,535   26,424   16,252         149,895
PRICETO COTN1.0300   1.0609   1.1033   1.1475   1.1934   1.2411                                     1,1
PIICI 8T8lIRG*                            590    1,314   03145    5,240    5,110    3,918           19,
TOTlL COST                             20,261   22,894   33,579   40,775   31,533   20,170         169,213
 ---------------------------                                            ----------------------------



-85-
ANNEX 8
Page 8 of 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJE'T FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
EXECUTION AND FINANCING PLAN
FINANCING PLAN
(US8; millions)
Table 8
Total   1989   1990    1991   1992   1993  1994  1995
Government             6S.6   8.0     4.4    7.8    9.0  10.6  11.8  11.0
Departments             2.6   0.0    0.2    0.8    0.4   0.5   0.6  0.5
Municipalities         10.1   0.0    0.8    1.4    1.7   2.0   2.1  2.1
Bank                  100.0   4.6      8.1   18.0   16.0  18.8  19.9  19.6
Total               169.2    7.6   18.5   22.0   27.1  81.9  83.9  88.2
Years are calendar yearo (and not IBRD FY)
Department and municipal contributions are nil during year one and proportionate to total
expenditure. afterwards.



-86-
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 4
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED, 1975-93
(ColS Millions of 1980)
Year    Primary   (X)  Secondary  (Z)    Higher   Z    Others   Z   Total          Z
1975    10,660   (51)    4,940   (23)    4,130   (20)   1,310   (6)  21,040  (100)
1978    13,430   (45)    6,980   (23)    4,970   (17)   4,500  (15)  29,880  (100)
1980    15,300   (42)    7,940   (22)    5,340   (15)   7,560  (21)  36,140  (100)
1982    19,380   (48)   10,610   (26)    8,260   (21)   2,090   (5)  40,340  (100)
1984    19,750   (43)   13.470   (29)    9,720   (21)   2,850   (6)  45,790  (100)
1985    20,130   (42)   14,370   (30)   10,450   (22)   2,950   (6)  49,700  (100)
1986    21,200   (40)   15,900   (30)   10,600   (20)   5,300  (10)  53,000  (100)
1987    22,400   (40)   16,800   (30)   11,200   (20)   5,600  (10)  56,000  (100)
1990    24,400   (40)   18,;00   (30)   12,200   (20)   6,100  (10)  61,000  (100)
1993    28,160   (40)   21,120   (30)   14,080   (20)   7,040  (10)  70,400  (100)
Source:  1975-1985, Ministry of Education
1986-1993 Bank estimates



-87-
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Procurement
Table 1
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Project E'.ement               ICB        LCB      Other         NA      Subtotal
Civil works                                50.2                            t 50.2
(27.4)                            (27.4)
Materials and furniture          39.1       33.0                              72.1
(35.2)    (29.7)                            (64.9)
Consultant services                                    8.5                     8.5
and training                                        (7.7)                   (7.7)
Teacher salaries                                                  38.4        38.4
and incentives                                                  (0.0)       (0.0)
Total                        39.1       83.2        8.5        38.4      169.2
(35.2)    (57.1)      (7.7)       (0.0)    (100.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
Bank for indicated items.



-88-
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Table 2
PROCUREMENT LIMITS BY TYPE
Component          Contrgt Ve u-  Expected Number  Averago Veluo  Aggregate    Type of
of Contracts    of Contracts     Limit        Procurement
CUSS)                           tUSX)           (USX)
Civil Works         lose than
85,000               930          20,000          20,000,000   Shopping
More then
86,000 and
lose then 250,000    675          65,000          80,000,000                      LCB
Materlsol,         Lose than 30,000      390          22,600          10,000,0OU   Shopping
and furniture     over 80,000 and
lowe than 260,000    103          236,000         26,000,000   LCB
more than 260,000     28          1,700,000       ---           ICe
Technical          Lese than 200,000    105           66,800          6,800,000     Guidelines
AsIcstance and
Studle
Teacher Training       N.A.              79           84,000          2,700,000    Budget transfer
to CEP for training
and *ervicox
Teachers
Incentives/Salaries    N.A.                N.A.       N.A.            38,400,000



-89-
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Disbursement Schedule
Estimated Project Disbursements (in USS million)
BANK FISCAL YEAR
Bank FY  1989  1990  1991   1992   1993  1994   1995   1998
Annual             3.4   8.4   18.8   26.4   28.8   36.6   32.2   16.9
Cumulative         3.4  11.8   30.4   66.8   84.6  120.1  162.3  169.2
Estimated Bank Disbursements
BANK FISCAL YEARS
1989  1990  1991   1992  1993  1994  1995   1996
------------------ USS Millions ----------------
Annual    2.0   6.0  11.0  16.0  17.0  21.0  19.0   10.0
Cumulative    2.0   7.0  18.0   33.0  60.0  71.0  90.0  100.0
Estimated disbursements are according to the  standard  profile for the sector in the
region, with a Board presentation in December 1988.
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1996   1996
IBRD FY yearly               0.02   0.06   0.11   0.16   0.17   0.21    0.19    0.10
IBRD FY cumulative           0.02   0.07   0.18   0.33   0.60   0.71    0.90  100.0
Loai, disbursements are proportionate to total expenditures.



-90 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Accounting and Auditing
1.       Analysis of Audit Reports.  The internal auditing entity of the
Gover.nment of Colombia, the Comptroller General, conducted several audits
on the ongoing education project supported by Loan 2192-CO. Overall,
comments of the Controller General suggest substantial accounting and
reporting deficiencies; accounting under the project has also be delayed.
Among other problems encountered, details accompanying FONDO/MEN financial
statements have been incomplete, linkages between financial and physical
performance under the project have been inadequate, and accounting mistakes
have been noted. A Bank expert undertook several supervisory missions
during 1986 and 1987 specifically to assess accounting and auditing
weaknesses in the FONDO/MEN and to prepare recommendations to strengthen
capacity. A resulting plan of action, developed with consultant support,
was adopted by che MEN during 1987 and the main recommendations carried out
by September 1988.
2.       Improvements.  The activities planned to improve financial
management and accour.ting under the FONDO/MEN include the addition of
competent staff to the FONDO and the development and introduction of an
improved and integrated system of accounts. The additional staff are being
appointed and will be in place prior to negotiations of the proposed
project (see para. 4 of Annex 7). Planned improvements center on the need
to ensure effective financial control and administration of development
projects and resources. More specifically, a system of accounts, internal
reports, administrative procedures and an accounting information system
have been prepared and introduced and staff would be trained in their use.
A consultant was retained during May 1988 to undertake these tasks. All
measures except staff training were completed by September 1988; and, staff
training programs would be mounted duriag the last quarter of 1988.  The
proposed improvements give emphasis to accounting requirements at the local
as well as central levels, in view of the planned financial participation
of the departments and municipalities under the proposed project and
inexperience at that level.



-91-
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. Detailed Project Cost Estimates, prepared by the Bank, October 1988.
2. Programa de Universalizacion de la Educacion Basica Primaria (Project
Preparation Manual, including detailed descriptions of program content and
allocation criteria), MEN, Bogota, October 1988.
3. Manual de Procedimientos (Implementation Manual for the Project), MEN,
Bogota, September 1988.
4. Evaluacion del Programa Escuela Nueva en Colombia, Instituto SER de
Investigacion, Carlos A. Rojas and Zoraida Castillo, Bogota, January 27,
1988.
5. Final Report on Financial Administration, MEN, Jesus A. Plata,
Consultant to the MEN, September 1988.
6. Ejecucion del Componente de Obras Civiles en el Plan de
Universalizacion de la Educacion Basica Primari, (detailed description of
implementation of the civil works component), MEN, Bogota, September 1988.
7.       Evaluacion del Programa Escuela Nueva en Colombia, MEN,
December 1987.



S3RD 21089
78'                                     -~~~~~~~ __4_   _  _bb_.                              Se
COLOMBIA                                                        -Crbbn Sa
NICARAG;JA      Z 
HOUSEHOLDS WITH PRIMARY                                                         COSTA RICA,"                   SURINAME
SCHOOL-AGED CHILDREN                                                           PVfNfZULI
NOT ATTENDING SSCHOOL                                                         PANfA COLOMBIA
/t   gf    -    (0   #  V  /                          B,qoi.: _  <    
!S~~~~C                                   -. r'L.    J  t     ,Si
A TtANrioo,                                               (CUADO OR
o_ PANAMAX,   X   .'2    ft >   t<        \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.J.
SAR/                             0 ,- -  c  a ''  (VFNEZUELA
\ /'    S  -~~'' P;                            A-.
X    0    ~~ANTIOQU/               SArANg a.     s4vA 
Pocific t--:,  -  ' 
I   ' +29 .'    ' MCUNDI~~~~^MArE  /                                            EQjVI
AC'                                                                             C '  HIL e    -N  VICHADA
i oul~vio  | , .
4                  -                 TOLilMA  )v|.
VALLE DEL                /                   
,   CAUCA                                                                  ------ r   !,    
LAUCA           UILA                                         4 _ f    - --JC     GUAINIA
C  ANIQI U~ATADR C                                         A, --1JCA>>   
Pacific                                                    / r  /   GUA VIARF
$  NARINO    ;3/ 40s                                                                   |, *UIOI
4              v    M   >                        ;         A 4,,    ,                       BRAZIL
-                            'R                                I
PERCENTAGEOF HOUSVOLDSWD THLPRIMARY
SG4OOL-AGEDCHILDREN NOTATT[ENDINGiSCHOtOL-                                                        0_     50 Ols0 100    150
|16%^ - 20o (Highest value: Chaco - 16.4o)  '>AMAZONAS                                      6       1 l0     200
| 12%C - *C    /                J/                                                                  KIEOMETERS
A    1 8o-  12-
2~~~~~~~~ ~                       CAQO-' .8oE                                        75^
0%  4-2   (Lowest value: Bogot - 2.69o)                        A                          e 0 /                200
All Intendencias overoged to one value: 135o 10                                                        -
All Comisor.os averaged to one volue: 10.6%               P E R U
Notional Capitol
--Depcirtmznt, Intendencio, and Coniisoria Boundaries                            t        ,, ,+;^;
fnternotional Boundaries                                                      /       /               -'
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~,                                                                40
1985 Census                              740
SEPTEMBER 1988



