Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18750
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
(Loan 3010-CO)
December 28, 1998
Human Development Management Unit
Country Department Unit for Colombia, Ecuador y Venezuela
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY UNITS
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (P)
(July, 1989)    (March 31, 1998)
US$1 = P$305      US$1 = P$1,360
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMB3A FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DNP                  National Planning Department
FER                  Regional Education Fund
FIS                  Social Investment Fund
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOC                  Government of Colombia
MEN                  National Ministry of Education
NES                  National Executive Secretariat (for the project)
OEI                  Organization of Ibero-American States
OPSE                 Planning Office of MEN
PCU                  MEN Project Coordinating Unit
SECAB                Secretariat of the Andres Bello Agreement
SED                  Departmental Secretariat of Education
SIED                 MEN Integrated Information System for Education
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme
UPEP                 Universal Primary Education Program
Vice-President:    Shahid Javed Burki, LCR
CMU Director:    Andres Solimano, LCC4C
Sector Leader:    Constance A. Corbett, LCC4C/HD
SMU Director:     Xavier Coll, LCSHD
Task Manager:     Marth-a Laverde, LCCCO
This document is for restricted distribution and may only be used by recipients in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION ...........................................I
A. Project Objectives                                        .I
B. Achievement of Project Obectives                                  .3
C. Main Factors Affecting Project Implementation                           .9
D. Project Sustainabilia                                                                           11..
E. Bank Performance ......................1....                                          .
F. Borrower Performance .11
G. Assessment of Project Outcomes .12
H. Future Operations .12
. Key Lessons Learned .12
PART Il: STATISTICAL TABLES ...................................                                       15
PART III: APPENDIXES ................................... 25
A.   Final Supervision Mission's Aide-Memoire ................................... 25
B.   Borrower Contribution to the ICR ................................... 31
C.   Government Commentary on the ICR ...................................                          37
This document is for restricted distribution and may only be used by recipients in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
(Loan No. 3010-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Second Subsector Project for
Primary Education in Colombia (Ln. 3010-CO), approved December 12, 1988. It became effective
March 28, 1989. The loan amount was US$100 million but closed at US$95.8 million because of
project cost savings in dollars resulting from exchange rate changes. The loan was closed March 31,
1998-27 months after the original closing date. The undisbursed balance of US$4.2 million was
cancelled on August 26, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Martha Laverde (Task Manager), Carmen Elisa Fl6rez and Vicky
Colbert (local consultants).  Reviewers were Alberto Rodriguez, Ernesto Cuadra, and Jorge
Barrientos. Preparation of this ICR is based on a completion mission in February 1998 and a review
of project files, including the results of studies and surveys carried out under the Project.
The Borrower's contribution appears in Appendix B; the Government's comments on the ICR
are presented in Appendix C. In addition the Borrower's kind cooperation in providing the necessary
information and participation in numerous discussions during preparation of the ICR are gratefully
acknowledged.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
(Loan No. 3010-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Second Subsector Project for Primary Education in Colombia (Ln. 3010-CO) was
designed to support expansion and improvement of education formed as an integral part of the
Government of Colombia's (GOC's) policy initiative to achieve greater economic and social
development. This goal was articulated in the GOC National Rehabilitation and Poverty
Alleviation Program, 1986-90, and accompanying six-year investment program, geared to increase
the productivity of the poor by improving basic services. Improving primary education quality and
improving access for all school-age children were explicit priorities for the education sector. The
essential part of the investment program for education was the consolidation of the efforts underway
to achieve universal coverage through the Universal Primary Education Program (UPEP).
2.    The World Bank began to finance education projects in Colombia in 1968. The first three
projects supported the development of diversified secondary education (Table 2). The fourth
shifted the focus to integrated rural education development, with a primary education component.
The fifth project (Loan 2192-CO) concentrated on rural primary education. It was conceived as the
pilot first phase of a 1 0-year effort to provide high-quality primary education for all rural children
and was implemented between 1982 and 1989. The Second Subsector Project for Primary
Education (Ln. 30 10-CO), the second phase of the 10-year program, was designed to expand
primary education coverage to marginal urban and rural areas, building on the lessons and
experiences of the previous project. The UPEP, an integral part of the national investment program,
was supported by Ln. 301 0-CO, and involved the joint efforts of the Ministries of Education and
Finance, the National Planning Department, and the Bank.
3.    The loan supported the Bank's country strategy oriented to assist the Government in
increasing the efficiency of investments in the social sectors. Elements of the Bank's medium-term
strategy in the education sector related to extension of basic education through the lower secondary
cycle and selective improvements in upper secondary education. The Project contributed to
implementing the Bank's country strategy by focusing on sector financing and allocation policies,
resource mobilization, and the upgrading of primary education, particularly for rural and marginal
urban populations. The project complemented other Bank-assisted operations in the areas of basic
health, rural water supply, and municipal development.
Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the Project were to strengthen resource mobilization at sub-national levels
and support related policy development in the education sector, while raising the quality of primary
education and expanding access to all school-age children. This was to be done by: (a) restricting
the appointrnent of new teachers and strengthening incentives to relocate surplus teachers to rural
areas and raising the share of non-personnel inputs in recurrent expenditures; (b) introducing



- ii -
automatic promotion in an attempt to reduce repetition, dropout, and average cost per graduate;
(c) increasing investments in primary education and directing the largest share to schools in
disadvantaged rural areas; and (d) encouraging local contributions to finance civil works.
Implementation and Results
5.    Project implementation took over nine years-two years and three months beyond the
scheduled closing date. Physical investments in the project exceeded original estimates by 30%
owing to cost savings in dollars due to exchange rate changes and higher-than-programmed
government counterpart contribution. The pace of investments exceeded the financial accounting
capacity of the PCU within MEN to monitor national, departmental, or municipal efforts. A new
financing mechanism, the Social Investment Fund (FIS), was established to handle investments,
with a view to improving funds administration and obtaining a better balance between loan and
counterpart funds. Although slow to get started, the FIS eventually became capable as an institution
for handling investment responsibilities.
6.    Several factors contributed to delays in implementation. These included decentralization
initiatives and community participation priorities delineated in Colombia's Constitutional reform in
1991. The many and various jurisdictions executing investments lacked the technical capacity,
coordination experience, and communications links (especially between municipalities and
departments) to meet the new requirements. These problems had been identified as risks in the
Staff Appraisal Report.
7.    Legislative changes in the national educational framework (1994 General Law of
Education) were in harmony with proposed educational and regulatory reforms. These included
emphasis on community participation and the "active school" concept, which were built into
Ln. 301 0-CO. But the lack of adequate institutional arrangements and capacity protracted
implementation. Additionally, changes introduced in the education strategy and scope caused
implementation setbacks. For the first four years, the project's focus was national in scope,
covering about 1,000 municipalities, with emphasis on rural areas. In 1994, the focus was narrowed
to target 325 municipalities with the worst education indicators. Since these municipalities were
also among the poorest and had weaker-than-average institutional capacity, the pace of
implementation slowed. In 1996, the scope was again expanded to cover all municipalities, while
emphasis was shifted from infrastructure to learning materials (including textbooks) and furniture.
8.    Given the foregoing, results were mixed but generally satisfactory, with some notable
achievements but disappointments as well. The policy component was geared to promote expanded
coverage and improved efficiency through increased primary education enrollment and automatic
promotion, as well mobilization of local resources for educational purposes-key objectives of the
GOC's strategy supported by the Bank. In addition, total government expenditures for primary
education increased from 1.7% to 2.8% of GDP, reflecting commitment to these goals and bringing
the country more in line with international averages. Enrollments at primary level grew by 71%
compared with the target of 20%. Efficiency improved only slightly.
9.    The management development component sought to improve the capacity for
medium-term planning using the existing information system. In general, implementation for this
component was weak, especially in the early stages, and results were below expectations.
Management improvements were not fully implemented in MEN because of inadequate staff
training and technical support at the central and departmental levels. Both project management and
monitoring was difficult owing to lack of provision for such activities within component design.
For example, project design did not include a training needs assessment or provision for evaluation



- iii -
of training provided. Technical assistance was provided under the Project, resulting in development
of a new education information system for decentralized entities. Unfortunately, problems with
compatibility with other existing systems has impeded integration of these systems with those at
national level. With respect to local capacity building, by 1996/97, some departments and
municipalities, with the support of universities and NGOs, had begun to implement technical
assistance and training strategies to strengthen knowledge of management principles generally and
education management in particular.
10.   The primary education subsector development component sought to improve the teaching-
learning environment by supplying textbooks and libraries to virtually every primary school in the
country; providing educational materials for students and teachers in 83% of rural schools and
school furniture to 44% of rural students; and funding school rehabilitation and construction.
Approximately 105,300 teachers were trained in both rural and urban areas. However, monitoring
was insufficient to determine the effect of the training on improving teaching practices or student
learning. Moreover, policy debates and disputes concerning aspects of the Escuela Nueva concept,
such as its appropriateness for non-rural areas, prevented the spread of its curricular and
pedagogical innovations to the extent anticipated. Design and application of an instrument to
evaluate achievement (the National Quality Assessment System, SABER) and of an instrument (the
Integrated Achievement and Value Assessment Survey, IAVAS) to assess a number of variables
(including student achievement, social values, school management, and costs) were important
results of the Project. The Government is currently applying the instruments in selected areas.
11.   Bank Performance. Annual supervision missions and frequent meetings between local
Bank staff and MEN and PCU staff facilitated strategic changes needed to meet overall objectives
in the wake of legislative and institutional changes that affected implementation. As serious
problems were encountered with respect to project management, accounting, and administration of
funds, supervision focused more on financial, administrative, and management aspects than on
educational improvement aspects. As a result, supervision missions' ability to assist the Borrower
in redressing problems of inadequate technical and administrative capacity to address educational
quality issues was limited.
12.   Borrower Performance. The high turnover of managerial and technical personnel in MEN
complicated execution of the Borrower Implementation Plan. Serious problems were encountered
with respect to project management administration of funds. Once the problems were discovered,
however, the Borrower took prompt action to address them. To support coordination, MEN created
a special unit to coordinate external credit. Lack of clarity about the unit's role was complicated
further by the many institutional and jurisdictional partners engaged in the financial execution of
components. Borrower coordination focused almost exclusively on budget processes rather than
monitoring of project execution in substantive educational areas.
13.   Project Outcome. Outcomes of the project were generally satisfactory, with notable
successes but also disappointments. The targets set for increasing coverage were exceeded,
contributing to the overarching goals of attaining universal coverage while improving the internal
efficiency of primary education. Primary school enrollments grew by 71% compared with the
target of 20%. The goals of improving the quality of primary education by training teachers,
strengthening school management, and providing textbooks and furniture were partially achieved.
A significant achievement of the project was the development of evaluation instruments relating
student achievement to school-related variables such as condition of physical facilities and
availability of textbooks, libraries, and educational materials.



-iv -
Future Operations and Lessons Learned
14.   The Bank has initiated two new projects in the educational sector that address school
quality improvement in a decentralized system, with project execution managed by the Department
of Antioquia and the Municipality of Pasto, respectively. The current preparation of a project to
improve the quality of rural education, based on alliances with the private sector and participation
by civil society, is drawing on lessons learned from Ln. 301 0-CO.
Lessons Learned
* Major institutional and political reforms, such as decentralization efforts, that take
place during project implementation often delay project implementation-even if, in
principle, they support project objectives. If this occurs, the Bank and the Borrower
will need time to analyze and reformulate project activities and revise implementation
timetables. Project design should be sufficiently flexible to permit timely realignment
of activities in line with reform priorities.
*  Projects that undertake comprehensive national educational reform programs-such as
achieving universal basic education, improving quality, and establishing sector finances
at the local level-should identify concrete and measurable objectives that can be
attained within the project period
*  Monitoringperformance objectives in coordination with representatives of
participating national and sub-national entities is crucialfor effective project
implementation. In a decentralized context, a basic monitoring and auditing system is
essential to provision of timely assistance to local authorities.
-  An integrated management information system, as well as a network among executing
entities, is essentialfor monitoring and supervision ofproject activities. The technical
capacity of all participants must be strengthened as necessary through well-designed
technical assistance.
* Innovative and effective educational concepts and programs may be difficult to
implement broadly unless adequate attention is paid to the political dimensions of
change that impinge on educational policy making and may cross conventional
dichotomies such as urban-rural school differences and poor versus middle-class
students.
* Centrally managed programs that target local governments will require flexible project
designs to accommodate the enormous diversity in capabilities, needs, and educational
and socioeconomic conditions.



COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
(Ln. 3010-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EVALUATION
A.    Project Objectives
Background
1.    Both public and private education began to expand rapidly in Colombia beginning in the
mid- 1960s, but maintaining satisfactory levels of quality proved more difficult. By the end of the
1980s, nearly 80% of children aged 7 to 11 were enrolled in primary schools, while 60-70%
attended school in rural areas (SAR, paragraph 1.2). These increases reflected increased public
expenditures for education especially for primary schools. Nevertheless, at 3% of GDP, public
expenditure in education remained lower than in other countries at similar development levels
represented through the 1980s.
2.    In the 1980s, most public resources for education went to pay teacher salaries (99%). This
was reflected in greater per-student costs and reduced funding for inputs to enhance the quality of
basic education (e.g., through better infrastructure and teaching/learning materials). Also, public
financing of education was excessively centralized, with a relatively high share allocated to higher
education, which significantly reduced funding for primary and secondary education. By the mid-
1980s, approximately 97% of public financing for primary education came from the Central
Government.
3.    By the end of the 1980s, primary and secondary school student achievement was low, and
repetition and dropout rates were high, which pointed to the erosion of educational quality. One of
the main factors contributing to low quality was the scarcity of teaching materials and textbooks for
both teachers and students. During the 1980s, the Subsector Project for Basic Rural Education (see
Table 2) partially financed with a Bank loan, supported the introduction of a revised curriculum for
rural primary schools (Escuela Nueva), the supply of educational materials for teachers and
students, support to school libraries, and in-service training for teachers. All of this led to
measurable improvements in quality.
4.    One of the objectives of the Government's National Rehabilitation and Poverty Alleviation
Program-1986-90 was poverty reduction. The strategy was to increase the productivity of the
poor through strengthened delivery of basic services, including education. Increasing primary
education quality and improving access for all school-age children were the twin policy objectives
for education.
5.    These objectives subsequently were incorporated into a six-year investment program
focused on expanding primary school coverage in marginal rural and urban areas, improving
efficiency in the allocation of primary education resources, and stimulating resource mobilization at
the sub-national level. Ln. 3010-CO was designed to support this ambitious investment program,
with its numerous objectives.



- 2-
Description of Project Objectives
6.     Ln. 3010-CO was intended to support the Universal Coverage Program for Primary
Education Plan, coordinated by the National Ministry of Education (MEN). The overall objective
corresponded to that of the National Rehabilitation and Poverty Alleviation Program, 1986-90,
namely to strengthen resource management and mobilization in the educational sector and raise the
quality of primary education, while simultaneously expanding access to all school-age children.
These objectives would be supported by: (a) limiting new teacher appointments and financing
incentives to relocate surplus teachers, mainly to rural areas, and by increasing the share of non-
personnel inputs in recurrent expenditures; (b) introducing a new student promotion policy to
reduce repetition and dropout rates, and lower average cost per graduate; (c) increase investment in
primary education and direct the largest share to schools in disadvantaged (mainly rural) areas; and
(d) encourage local resource mobilization to help finance civil works.
7.     The strategies to achieve these multiple objectives involved active participation by national
and regional governments. Activities included execution of civil works, purchase of furniture and
materials, pedagogical training of teachers, and technical assistance for strengthening
implementation capacity and purchase and use of materials (see Table 6).
8.    The Project comprised the following three components:
A policy component which sought to: (a) increase the participation of non-personnel
inputs in recurrent expenditures by limiting the creation of new teacher positions and
financing incentives to relocate surplus teachers (mainly to rural areas); (b) introduce a
student promotion policy aimed at reducing repetition and dropout rates and lowering
average cost per graduate to promote efficiency; (c) encourage subnational
contributions to finance the subsector; and (d) conduct studies to assess alternatives for
future financing of higher education.
? A primary education development component which financed: (a) student and teacher
materials and school libraries for 4,000 schools, and in-service training for 20,000
teachers based on the successful rural curriculum development effort known as
Escuela Nueva; (b) essential furniture for 13,000 rural schools, and classroom
rehabilitation for about 4,300 rural schools to improve access; (c) textbooks and in-
service teacher training to support a revised urban curriculum, and furniture for some
2,100 urban schools in marginally served areas; and (d) a system to assess student
achievement in primary education, extension of basic rural education beyond the
primary cycle on a pilot basis, and a policy study related to the future development of
secondary education.
*   A management component which provided technical assistance, staff training, and
studies to: (a) complete the introduction of an improved information system and
strengthen medium-term education planning and policy monitoring capacity;
(b) develop budgeting and financial management skills within MEN; (c) improve
technical support capabilities in the central and local bureaus of MEN, as well as their
program planning and implementation capabilities; and (d) develop the capacity to
prepare future projects.



-3 -
9.    The policy component and the physical goals of the project were articulated by the GOC in
a letter of intent that included an action plan with benchmarks for the evaluation of project
outcomes (see Tables 5 and 6).
10.   Project base cost was estimated of US$144.1 million, with total project cost including
contingencies estimated at US$169.2 million. Despite cancellation of an undisbursed loan balance
of US$4.2 million at loan closing, actual investment in the Project totaled US$220.9 million (30%
higher than estimated total project cost) as a result of substantial increases in Government
counterpart contribution to the Project. The initial financing plan called for 59.1% of project costs
to be financed by the Loan, while the Central Government would contribute 33.4% and
participating departments and municipalities would provide the remaining 7.5% (Table 8B). As a
result of the Government's decision to increase its contribution to the Project, the final financing
plan shows 43.1% from the Loan, 53.1% from the Central Government and 3.5% from
decentralized governments. While the contributions from decentralized entities was US$4.8 million
lower than planned, the figure does not include in-kind contributions in the form of storage services,
materials, and furniture, which were not estimated in Project accounts.
11.   The original plan called for allocation of 74.7% of base costs to the primary education
development component, 23.7% to the policy component, and 1.6% to the management
development component (Table 8A). Owing to the increase in total investment under the Project,
all components received larger allocations of funding than originally planned. It is notable,
however, that the largest increase in funding was channeled to learning materials and teacher
training, while slightly less was spent on infrastructure compared with original plans. This,
combined with substantial increases in support for technical assistance, staff training and teacher
incentives, reflects the increasing importance placed on human resources development during
project implementation as a critical factor in achieving goals of both education quality improvement
and expansion of coverage. This emphasis was important in achieving project objectives.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
Overview
12.   The Project's key development objective was to contribute to the achievement of universal
access to primary education, to raise the quality of primary education, especially from rural and
marginal urban populations, and to strengthen mobilization and management of resources in the
sector, including the local level. The project exceeded its targets related to expansion of access,
bringing nearer attainment of universal coverage at primary level. By 1997, total enrollment
(including private) in primary schools reached 5.5 million-a 71 percent increase over 1989 levels,
compared with the project target of 20%. The rate of increase was slightly higher in rural areas.
13.   Given the 1989 net enrollment rate of less than 66% for children aged 7-11, the goal of
universal coverage was ambitious. The project's significant achievements in raising access
notwithstanding, even more progress might have been made had the priorities of the UPEP been
consistently maintained throughout the period. The original program strategy was to extend
primary education coverage through automatic promotion and by encouraging enrollment of
children not in school. In 1994, given the poor results registered on the standardized test (SABER)
administered by Instituto SER in 1992, emphasis shifted to improving the quality of primary
education. Activities targeted 325 rural and underprivileged urban municipalities with low
educational quality and high poverty levels. As these municipalities also had weaker-than-average
institutional capacity, project execution was rated "low" and remedial actions taken. By mid-1996,



-4 -
this slow progress, together with concerns that the reformulated targets could result in additional
inequities, led to a change back to the original country-wide scope. This series of shifts in emphasis
and focus resulted in implementation delays. The closing date of the loan subsequently was
extended several times, and the loan finally closed March 31, 1998.
14.   A key quality improvement goal focused on improving teaching conditions in the
classroom. Nearly 80% of investments went to improve the teaching and learning environment and
pedagogical conditions, factors directly related to quality gains. The Integrated Achievement and
Value Assessment Survey (IAVAS) conducted in 1997 as part of the program impact evaluation
(Part I, paragraphs 31-32) indicates that the quality of primary education did improve. Significantly
higher test scores were obtained in the mathematics, science and values dimensions among students
whose schools received furniture through the plan. School environment (e.g., condition of physical
infrastructure, availability of furniture, lighting, desks, materials) increased educational
achievement by 29%. Students in rural schools modeled on the Escuela Nueva (two-thirds of the
total schools) and those in urban schools using the Escuela Nueva curriculum obtained significantly
higher average performance scores than those in traditional schools.
15.   The project partially achieved its objective of strengthening the provision and management
of educational services. A new computer-based management information system was developed for
use at decentralized levels, and the system is still in use. Unfortunately, the utility of the new
system has been limited by problems of incompatibility with other elements of a proposed
management information system at central level, which impedes integration of the systems. This
problem is still pending resolution. Training and technical assistance were also provided to
strengthen the existing management system. The objective of increasing mobilization of funds for
education was achieved at both national and local levels. This is reflected in the larger-than-
anticipated provision of counterpart funds for project investments by the Central Government.
Increases in local funding were mainly devoted to cover teachers' salaries.
Resource Use and Mobilization Policy Component (US$38.S million)
16    Expenditure Composition and Teacher Employment Policy. The National Planning
Department (DNP) estimated that primary education absorbs about 56% of investment in basic
education (primary school plus 4 years of secondary school). In the 1994-98 period, teacher payroll
was nearly 85% of total public education expenditures. Thus, expenditures for educational inputs
other than personnel more than doubled during implementation to 9 percent, surpassing the goal of
3 percent. Local administrative contributions to basic education finance are growing, but are
dedicated entirely to payroll expenditures, limiting outlays on non-wage inputs that could contribute
to improving educational quality.
17.   The policy to limit the creation of new positions for teachers to lower the overall wage bill
and introduce incentives to relocate surplus teachers to rural and marginal urban areas was
implemented in two phases. The first phase (1989-95) financed teacher relocations from urban to
rural areas. The second phase (1996/97) was more systematically carried out nationwide. The local
educational communities actively participated, encouraging greater responsibility by schools and an
improved organizational climate and stimulating greater emphasis on training and improvement of
school facilities.
18.   Expenditure per Primary School Graduate and Promotion Policy.   Though it may still
be early to assess the full impact of the project on educational quality and efficiency, repetition and
dropout rates remain unsatisfactory despite implementation of the automatic promotion policy. The
Expenditure Rationalization and Public Finance Committee (1997) reported that only 20 out of 100



- 5 -
children who enrolled in first grade completed basic education (20%), and only 7 do so without
repeating a grade. There is evidence that this partly reflects the failure of traditional teaching
methods and that the problem is most severe in the early grades. Indirect data for the 1988-91
period suggest that school retention increased substantially in rural areas when the Escuela Nueva
methodology was used. On the other hand, no significant changes occurred in urban areas where
only the traditional methodology was applied.
19.   Modest efficiency gains were achieved in reduction of repetition rates and improvement of
resource use. Continued application of the automatic promotion policy has achieved only slight
efficiency gains. The cohort that began primary school in 1988 (the first year of the Project) was
automatically promoted and subsequently graduated and required one month less to complete five
years of primary school than the cohort that started school in 1978. The pattern of resource use
suggests some efficiency gains. The share of resources inefficiently spent on repeating and overage
students was 37.5 percent in 1993-an 8.7 percent improvement since 1985. In 1994, continued
improvement was evident, with students repeating grades or who later dropped out representing
35% of total primary school enrollment (Expenditure Rationalization and Public Finance
Committee, 1997).
20.   Along with a slight improvement in efficiency, total expenditures per student rose.
According to DNP, between 1987 and 1994, total Central Government expenditures per primary
student increased 16.2%; total salary expenditures increased by 10.6% over this period. There was
little change in productivity and internal efficiency. The student-teacher ratio for Colombian public
education was 22 in 1997, compared to an "optimal" ratio assumed to be 30 in rural and 40 in urban
schools. A student-teacher ratio of 22 would imply a cost overrun of approximately 30%.
21.   Investment Expenditure, Resource Mobilization, and Cost Sharing. Education expenditures
increased from 2.5% to 4% of GDP during the project, which is more in line with international
benchmarks for countries at similar levels of development. Resources dedicated to the basic
education sector (primary school plus four years of high school) grew in real terms 2.3 times
between 1990 and 1997. Based on this, public financing for basic education rose from about 1.7%
to 2.8% of GDP between 1990 and 1997, excluding resources allocated by departments and
municipalities. Although contributing only marginally to this increase, the real impact of the
project may be in prompting the Central Government (as well as local governments) to increase
public investment in basic education. Consistent with the decentralization objectives expressed in
the 1991 Constitution, the municipal share of total sector financing shows a 29-fold increase
between 1990 and 1997, rising from 1.5% to 19.5% of total basic education spending for the period.
By 1997, the departmental share represented 5% of total basic education spending. The project
targeting criteria (focusing benefits on rural and marginal urban areas) were largely met, with
textbooks (61%) and furniture (56%) distributed to rural areas. As decentralized executing entities
did not keep disaggregated project records, however, it is not possible to estimate distribution of
benefits for all activities.
22.   Financing Policy for Higher Public Education. Consultant studies helped the Ministry of
Education design a Secondary Education Coverage Enhancement Plan (between 1992-1994) and to
implement it, with Bank participation, beginning in 1995.
Primary Education Subsector Development Component (US$127.9 million)
23.   Educational Quality Improvement: Textbooks and Libraries. Provision of materials for
teachers and students and in-service training for rural teachers were the main inputs for improving
the quality of classroom conditions for teaching and learning. The purchase and distribution of



-6 -
textbooks and libraries followed a similar pattern: sets of textbooks and basic libraries were
assembled based on recommendations of teacher-training workshops. Both textbook and library
coverage extended to nearly all schools in Colombia, surpassing prescribed goals. Approximately
25 million textbooks were delivered, of which 63% went to students in rural schools, 18% to urban
students, and 9% for teacher's guides. In rural areas and urban schools that adopted the Escuela
Nueva approach, textbooks reflected Escuela Nueva content. Each set of books was to be shared by
three students in rural areas and two in urban zones. On average, each public primary school
student received six books.
24.   Book and library distribution took place through departmental secretariats, which received
acquisitions directly, and then distributed them among the municipalities and schools. Final
distribution to municipalities and their schools required an agreement between national and local
jurisdictions. Provisioning of rural and urban libraries was tailored to local circumstances. School
enrollment and the number of municipalities in a department governed the number of books
distributed. These criteria accounted for 83 percent of textbook allocations. In rural areas, between
60 and 70 titles went to each library for use by all school grades, totaling nearly 47,000 volumes. In
urban schools, libraries were grade-specific, with 15 titles per grade, for a total of nearly 137,000
volumes. Initially, beneficiaries were unaware of the arrival of textbooks and their envisaged
educational benefits, due to lack of adequate promotional activities. This changed in 1996 when a
more aggressive national communications strategy took shape.
25.   Teacher Training. Despite the acknowledged importance of in-service teacher training,
project design did not include a plan for monitoring the program. Similarly, the effectiveness of the
teacher training in improving classroom teaching practices and qualitative gains in learning were
not assessed. Estimates based on employment mobility data (30 percent annually), suggest that
training of some type reached at least 50% of the teachers. In-service training occurred throughout
implementation, in two phases. Between 1988 and 1992, agreements were signed with
departments and departmental secretariats selected teachers and made logistical arrangements.
From 1993-1997, training was organized and administered through agreements with the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP), Secretaria del Convenio Andres Bello, SECAB (Andres
Bello Agreement Secretariat), and the Organization of Ibero-American States (OEI).
26.   Since the first phase coincided with the restructuring and decentralization of MEN, the
preparation of a training strategy for rural teachers was delayed. The principal problems detected at
this stage were poor coordination and lack of instructional materials; the use of lectures instead of
experiential, interactive modes of teaching; and inconsistent criteria for selection of trainers.
During the second phase, reading, writing and arithmetic instruction were stressed, with training
reflecting regional initiatives. In response to MEN's request, the departments turned to universities
and NGOs for help in identifying teacher training priorities. This led to a better understanding of
the educational environment in municipal schools by all participants. However, universities and
NGOs were unfamiliar with student textbooks or teacher manuals and had no access to them during
teacher training. This created a disconnection between the content of teacher training and the
suitability of the methodologies used and proposed.
27.   In 1996, MEN signed agreements with Corporaci6n Mixta and SECAB to develop a new
teacher-training strategy and to produce other proposals based in part on teachers' perceptions of
needed changes in curriculum content among the six departments surveyed. The size of the sample
is not known, however, and there was no separation of responses by rural and urban teachers.
Teaching materials and textbooks were produced and training provided for Departmental Training
Committees, Education Secretariats, and NGOs. The short duration of implementation (6 to 8
months) made it difficult to assess the effect of the training on teaching practices.



-7-
28.   Teacher training ultimately was not consolidated into a cohesive program and no new
teacher training policy emerged. Training generally took place haphazardly and was administered
mainly as a publicly offered, central MEN function. Moreover, it had the effect of blurring the
distinction between rural and multi-grade schools and, for a time, led to more emphasis on
traditional and urban schools. Planning and organization of training was helped by the creation of
demonstration classrooms (micro-centers) where training teams were organized. Furthermore,
teacher training helped disseminate information about Escuela Nueva and its congruence with the
new Decentralization Law at national level (teachers, teaching staff involved in management, SED,
and the universities) as well as delivery of the Escuela Nueva pedagogical guidelines. Despite
earlier positive experience with teacher training in Escuela Nueva demonstrating that such training
can be instrumental in changing teaching practices and attitudes, the Escuela Nueva approach to
training was not adopted owing to lack of consensus between central education policy-makers and
Escuela Nueva advocates over the model's suitability for system-wide implementation.
29.   Test Development. In 1989, MEN proposed developing a National Quality Assessment
System (SABER) to assess achievement and quality in primary schools. A first phase occurred in
the second semester of 1990. Three departments agreed to pilot mathematics and language
achievement tests based on teacher inputs. These results were used to develop the current SABER
test, first given in 1991 to a representative sample of students in grades three and five in urban and
rural public and private schools. The test differentiated between academic and non-academic
dimensions of school achievement.
30.   Test results showed students failed to achieve at grade level in math and language arts, and
cognitive skills appeared weak. The highest achievement scores were recorded in private schools.
Rural public schools, followed by urban public schools, posted the lowest scores. School
characteristics significantly influenced achievement. Low achievement correlated with inadequate
physical infrastructure, limited availability of textbooks and educational materials, and limited
access to basic secondary education. Other significant variables were family socioeconomic
characteristics and time spent commuting to and from school. Students in Escuela Nueva schools
achieved higher scores in Spanish and mathematics, civic behavior, and creativity and showed
higher self-esteem than students in schools where conventional teaching practices were used.
31.   MEN later implemented an Integrated Achievement and Value Assessment System
(IAVAS). IAVAS was intended to provide information about qualitative improvements in public
primary schools, as well as to study variables associated with investment in the UPEP. These
variables included teacher training; provision of desks, textbooks and libraries; establishment of
Municipal Education Resource Centers (CREM); and classroom improvement and extended
coverage. The design of IAVAS took into account educational achievement (knowledge, aptitudes
and skills) in the areas of language, natural science, and mathematics, and attitudes and values. The
assessment instruments and questionnaires were administered in October 1997 to a sample of 400
schools in 100 municipalities that participated in the UPEP. Results were analyzed using
descriptive and inferential single- and multivariate statistical techniques.
32.   Test results revealed improvements in academic achievement in mathematics, language
arts, and science. Urban primary schools scored highest in mathematics and science, while "social
values" scores were higher in Escuela Nueva rural schools. Among school factors associated with
achievement, the most important were teacher training, availability of textbooks and libraries
supplied through the UPEP, receiving furniture, and being in remodeled and rehabilitated buildings.
Urban scores were lower on the IAVAS than on the SABER test. Data from these tests have not
been used to create a baseline by which to gauge academic quality gains, and MEN has not yet
selected which instrument to use in future testing efforts.



-8 -
33.   Improved Access and Equipment. Public school enrollment grew from 2.7 million in 1989
to 3.5 million by 1994-an increase of nearly 30 percent, compared with the target of 20% growth
for the entire project period. Enrollment growth was slightly higher in rural areas (31 percent). By
1997, total enrollment in primary schools (including private schools) reached 5.5 million-a 71
percent increase over 1989 levels.
34.   Bookshelves, filing cabinets, desks and chairs were provided for students and teachers.
Beneficiaries included approximately 700,000 rural students and 586,000 urban students. There
was a 44% overall improvement in equipment provision for rural students, with bookshelves and
filing cabinets distributed exclusively to rural schools. Furniture provision surpassed project goals
of 10,700 rural schools. In all, 19,000 filing cabinets and 25,000 bookshelves were distributed,
covering 59% and 75%, respectively, of the total of number of schools in urban and rural areas.
35.   Financial information at departmental level is the only source of data about investments in
school and classroom rehabilitation and construction. Records of physical works were the
responsibility of municipalities, which did not systematically report on the type and number of
physical works undertaken; thus, meaningful comparison with original targets is not possible.
Investments in infrastructure exceeded planned levels, primarily because of significant increases in
counterpart funds (from local as well as national sources). The higher level of local contributions to
civil works permitted a reallocation of loan funds from the civil works category to teacher training,
technical assistance, and educational materials. Despite the increases in local investment in
education, total levels of investment per student are still less than optimal, raising concerns about
the sustainability of benefits under the project.
36.   Extension of Basic Education in Rural Areas. In 1997 an experimental component
attempted to extend the primary school cycle to include grades 7 and 8 in selected schools. Known
as the Rural Basic Education Quality Strengthening Program (post-primary), it used the Escuela
Nueva model in the Department of Caldas, among other territorial jurisdictions, in partnership with
the private sector and the Federaci6n de Cafeteros (Federation of Coffee Growers). The effort was
incorporated into MEN's post-primary school program. Program characteristics included training
and supervision, use of life-experience strategies, community participation, and decentralized
implementation. Outcomes have not been formally evaluated.
Management Development Component (US$2.8 million)
37.   Integrated Information System for Education (SIED) Subcomponent. The SIED project
planning and management subsystems were intended to strengthen medium-term planning and
monitoring. A study was undertaken by Instituto SER (see Table 7) to analyze functions, processes,
organization and administration of the UTPEP as the basis for developing a management information
system for use by decentralized entities. At central level, the Ministry could not integrate the entire
system developed, owing to incompatibility with other modules of a management information
system already developed and in use.
38.   Budget and Financial Management. Initially, the Ministry did not possess the requisite
accounting and financial management capabilities needed for satisfactory project execution and
accounting. Overall project management was very weak in the early years. Internal control
inquiries by the General Accounting Office of Colombia in 1991 revealed deficiencies in loan
administration, particularly in planning, contracting, and communications with project execution
entities. Auditors and the Bank raised questions regarding project accounts and supporting
documentation from 1989 to 1993. A satisfactory action program was agreed to correct the
difficulties, including development of an adequate accounting and financial management



-9-
information system and training of staff in its application. A satisfactory system was developed and
was used during the final three years of the project, which was also adopted for use in the
subsequent Secondary Education Project. Full documentation for all expenditures was provided by
end 1997.
39.   Project and Program Implementation. Improvement of technical support at central and
departmental levels of MEN as well as departmental and municipal planning, programming, and
implementation capabilities evolved slowly. The Ministry designed a technical assistance and
training strategy for municipalities and departments consisting of education and financial
management tools. A few municipalities, with assistance from universities and NGOs, used the
strategy in the final two years of the project (1996/97). The subsequent Secondary Education
Project also used the methodology based on this experience.
C.    Main Factors Affecting Project Implementation
40.   Factors Not Subject to MEN Control. Both constitutional and legislative reforms occurred
during the project period, with a significant impact on implementation. The new Constitution of
1991 introduced a major decentralization initiative, with emphasis on community participation. The
General Education Law of 1994 further decentralized management of funds within the education
sector, necessitating a change in coordination arrangements for the Project. The 1991 constitutional
changes and the 1994 General Education Law were in consonance with the basic goals of the
project. In fact, some of the educational and regulatory reforms adopted by the new law, such as the
community participation processes and the active school concept, were directly derived from
experiences under the Project. At the same time, they complicated implementation by increasing
the number of entities with executing responsibility. The many jurisdictions executing investments
varied greatly in technical and managerial capacity, and generally lacked the communications links
(especially between municipalities and departments) necessary to meet the new requirements. The
Staff Appraisal Report discussed the possibility of substantial legal and institutional reforms and
had identified the risk that they could delay implementation.
41.   Factors Subject to MEN Control. The high turnover of MEN management and technical
staff hindered project implementation. During the life of the project there were six ministers of
education, seven planning coordinators, and four teacher training directors. A new project
management orientation process was required with each change. This also interrupted the planned
sequence of activities and weakened institutions charged with implementation. An integrated
information system did not emerge to monitor progress at national, departmental or municipal
levels. Information systems that existed were not coordinated and attempts to develop a well-
organized, integrated information strategy proved futile.
42.    The UPEP was conceived within the framework of a centralist institutional structure in
Colombia. Implementation of the overall UPEP program was hampered, however, by lack of clear
operational guidelines, despite its having been structured in stages to facilitate its management. The
1991 constitutional reforms set in motion decentralization and community participation initiatives
that raised further uncertainties with respect to the roles of national and subnational entities in
UPEP program implementation. Moreover, little effort was made to develop monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms for execution of the UPEP at the national and subnational levels or among
the NGOs. This complicated administration and the legal aspects of implementation. Following the
enactment of the Education Law of 1994, The Education Secretariats at departmental level (SEDs)
assumed responsibility for managing the UPEP along with financial control of services rendered,
including responsibility for storage and distribution of textbooks, libraries, and school furniture-



- 10-
responsibilities that previously fell to the MEN's Regional Education Funds. Adaptation to this
change took time and slowed implementation.
43.   Project management was weak in the early years of implementation. Over half the
spending under the project (51.4%) was undertaken between 1989 and 1993, the period during
which the national government allocated most of its counterpart resources. While this was an
acceptable pace of project execution, financial management and accounting controls were lax
during this time (para. 38). During 1989-1992, resources were executed by the MEN Fund. In
1993, the MEN abolished the MEN Fund and directly executed the resources through trust funds.
Starting in 1994, the Social Investment Fund (FIS) became the clearinghouse for project
disbursements. At first, the FIS faced many organizational problems related to its structure and
operational setup. As a result of these combined problems, execution slowed during 1994-1995,
with corresponding drops in disbursements. The subsequent requests for loan extension resulted
from the need to obtain a better balance between loan and counterpart funds, to accommodate
institutional adjustments (after the creation of the FIS), and to clarify the accounting and financial
arrangements. The pace of implementation accelerated in 1996 and both quality and pace were
excellent in 1997.
44.   In the last two years of implementation, the steps taken by MEN to correct earlier
management problems were evident in both the PCU and the MEN directorates, resulting in more
timely identification, programming, and preparation of subprojects. At the same time, the MEN
gave greater attention to its coordinating role, and coordination among all government entities
significantly improved. Flexibility and responsiveness on the Bank's part combined with these
elements to permit timely resolution of procedural issues, reduced paperwork, and facilitated
disbursements from the Special Account.
45.   Recommendations made by Bank missions were not always adopted, and subsequent
technical assistance, evaluations, and follow-up to correct operational deficiencies in operations
were often ineffective. On the other hand, improvement occurred in integrating various MEN
functional units into the components, thus obtaining better leadership from MEN line entities,
especially during the last two years of implementation.
46.   Cumbersome, time-consuming national procurement procedures contributed to delays in
contracting under some components. Conversely, the provision of furniture to municipalities
through international competitive bidding proved both more rapid and more economical compared
to contracting in the first years of the project, when individual contracts were awarded to numerous
suppliers.
47.   Non-MEN Implementing Agencies. In 1994, the Social Investment Fund (FIS) became the
agency responsible for disbursements for project counterpart and credit expenditures. Inadequate
administrative capacity seriously hampered its operations. FIS initially lacked adequately trained
personnel in sufficient numbers to manage the volume and number of expenditures, along with the
numerous tasks related to monitoring, contract agreement settlements, and allocation and transfer of
resources. Eventually, FIS developed adequate institutional capacity but was merged with
FINDETER in 1997. (This did not have a material effect on the Project).
48.   The departments executing the UPEP lacked adequate technical capacity, as well as the
communication links with municipalities necessary for smooth project implementation. As a result,
the MEN and other central entities (FIS) often worked directly with municipalities, bypassing the
departmental level. Nevertheless, technical support provided by the MEN under the project



-11 -
achieved some progress in strengthening capacity at departmental level, which proved critical in
implementing many activities.
49.   The municipalities were able to allocate budgetary appropriations as part of the
decentralization process and local financial capacity-building. This generated upward pressure
from local to central level (MEN) and fostered the achievement of many objectives related to
decentralization of fiscal and program responsibilities in education.
D.    Project Sustainability
50.   The mobilization of financing at municipal level was important not only to the success of
the project but also to help ensure the financial sustainability of the UPEP. As noted, however,
subsector investtnents are still less than optimal. Continued financial support from central level will
be necessary both to sustain operating costs of the education system and to continue and deepen
efforts to improve quality.
51.   The UPEP's objectives included educational quality improvement as well as expansion of
coverage, especially in rural areas. Its principal strategy for quality improvement was to promote
use of pedagogical innovations used in Escuela Nueva, using inputs such as textbooks, furniture,
and school rehabilitation or construction. Funding instruments were developed for the civil works
and training components, and a technical assistance strategy was developed to strengthen
educational decentralization, especially at the municipal level. The experience gained was useful in
the development of a secondary education project.
52.   Additional factors contributing to sustainability of project outcomes and impact include
training provided to municipalities by regional universities and NGOs and partnerships developed at
central and local levels with the private sector, universities, and NGOs around various issues.
E.    Bank Performance
53.   The performance of the Bank was generally satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
Government and implementing agencies and supported technical assistance to facilitate
implementation of decentralization initiatives, including design of a training strategy for this
purpose. The Bank also supported the development of more flexible procurement procedures for
purchase of educational materials and school furniture-a bottleneck at the beginning of the project.
In addition, Bank promotion of technical capacity building in procurement within MEN and FIS
was key to resolving critical implementation problems, and guidance toward effective use of
international bidding was key to achieving more competitive, transparent, and less costly
procurement of goods. The Bank carried out two supervision missions each year (except in 1991),
and local Bank staff held frequent meetings and worked closely with MEN's PCU. This facilitated
monitoring of progress in scheduled activities and timely response to proposals to adjust project
strategy. Nevertheless, project management problems, especially the absence of an adequate
accounting and financial management system, could have been detected earlier.
F.    Borrower Performance
54.   To promote project coordination, MEN created a unit to coordinate the project, initially
called the National Executive Secretariat for the UPEP, and thereafter referred to as the
Coordinating Unit for Programs Financed by Foreign Credit. Its effectiveness was hampered,
however by lack of clarity regarding its role in the Ministry, as well as the respective roles of the



-12 -
different jurisdictional levels involved in the execution of the project and UPEP in general. This
lack of definition of roles was never fully corrected. Various technical units of MEN were
responsible for monitoring achievement of UPEP objectives. Effective monitoring of the program
was impeded by high staff turnover in these units.
55.   The MEN's project coordination generally focused on budget, administrative, and
accounting processes. PCU management through 1994 was generally weak and employed
inconsistent administrative and financial criteria (para. 38). Once the problems were identified,
however, the Borrower readily agreed with the Bank on an action plan to correct them. All
requirements were met satisfactorily by end 1997. The Government was slow to develop
procurement capacity, especially for international bidding. Once this capacity was developed,
however, the benefits extended to procurement in other MEN projects as well.
G.    Assessment of Project Outcomes
56.   The project outcome was generally satisfactory. Growth in primary school enrolment
exceeded targets, although the goal of universal coverage at primary level has not yet been reached.
New teaching strategies and innovative methodologies were encouraged, and the quality of primary
education was enhanced through in-service training of teachers, distribution of teaching materials,
and provision of textbooks and furniture. A national assessment system for student achievement
was produced and implemented, and an assessment methodology relating achievement to school
characteristics was developed. Both of these instruments have been valuable in planning and
assessing alternative interventions in the sector. A dissemination strategy using mass media was
developed, including production of television programs, adaptation of international programs, and
use of educational software. Additional resources were mobilized for the sector, with municipalities
assuming more responsibility for primary education. Participation in the project also led
municipalities to develop partnerships with the private sector to expand and improve the quality of
primary education, achieving greater participation of civil society in education. Nevertheless,
expected improvements to internal efficiency of primary education were limited.
H.    Future Operations
57.   Following the strategy agreed by the Bank and the Government, the Bank initiated two new
projects in the education sector, both of which aimed at improving quality of basic education in a
decentralized system. The Department of Antioquia and the Municipality of Pasto implement the
respective projects. Preparation is underway for an operation to improve the quality of rural
education based on partnerships with the private sector and civil society. Lessons learned during
the execution of Ln. 3010-CO are incorporated into preparation of this project.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
* Major institutional and political reforms, such as decentralization efforts, that take
place during project implementation often delay project implementation-even if, in
principle, they support project objectives. If this occurs, the Bank and the Borrower
will need time to analyze and reformulate project activities and revise implementation
timetables. Project design should be sufficiently flexible to permit timely realignment
of activities in line with reform priorities.



- 13 -
*  Projects that undertake comprehensive national educational reform programs-such as
achieving universal basic education, improving quality, and establishing sector finances
at the local level-should identify concrete and measurable objectives that can be
attained within the project period
*  Monitoring performance objectives in coordination with representatives of
participating national and sub-national entities is crucialfor effective project
implementation. In a decentralized context, a basic monitoring and auditing system is
essential to provision of timely assistance to local authorities.
*  An integrated management information system, as well as a network among executing
entities, is essentialfor monitoring and supervision ofproject activities. The technical
capacity of all participants must be strengthened as necessary through well-designed
technical assistance.
*  Innovative and effective educational concepts andprograms may be difficult to
implement broadly unless adequate attention is paid to the political dimensions of
change that impinge on educational policy making and may cross conventional
dichotomies such as urban-rural school differences and poor versus middle-class
students.
*  Centrally managedprograms that target local governments will require flexible project
designs to accommodate the enormous diversity in capabilities, needs, and educational
and socioeconomic conditions.






- 15-
COLOMBIA
SECOND SITBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
(Ln. 3010-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
PAGE
TABLE 1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................  16
TABLE 2:   RELATED BANK CREDITS ............................................................ 17
TABLE 3:   PROJECT TIMETABLE ............................................................ 1 8
TABLE 4:   PROJECT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE, ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL (US$MILLION) .................. 18
TABLE 5:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................     19
TABLE 6:   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS ....................... ..................................... 20
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .21
TABLE 8 A: PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT .22
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FUNDING .22
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .23
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .23
TABLE 11:  COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS: .24
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .24
TABLE 13:  BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS .................... 24



- 16 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives           Substantial           Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                         U                   U               0                  E
Sector Policies                                            E Il            U                 Il
Financial Objectives                  [l                   El              U                  a
Institutional Development              U                   El              U                  F
Physical Objectives                   El                   Il              U                 II
Poverty Reduction                      U                   El                                E l
Gender Issues                          a                   El                                
Other Social Objectives                a                   EE l U
Environmental Objectives               a                   a               a                  El
Public Sector Management               U                   El              U                  U
Private Sector Development                                 E El            U                  U
Other (specify)                        U                   C               U                  U
B.  Project Sustainability                Likely                 Unlikely               Uncertain
El 
Highly
C.  Bank Performance                    Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  Deficient
Identification                         U                     El 
Preparation Assistance                 U                     El                           U
Appraisal                              U                     E                            U
Supervision                           U                      El                          U
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  Deficient
Preparation                            U                     El                           U
Implementation                         ]                     El                         UE
Covenant Compliance                    l                     El                           U
Operation (if applicable)              U                     El                           U
Highly                           Highly
E.  Assessment of Outcome               Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
O C              l               I]               I]



- 17-
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Loan No./Name                          Purpose                        Year           Status
Approved
(FY)
Previous Operations
1   Loan 552-CO          Support first development phase of diversified     69        Closed
Secondary Education   secondary education.                                       Dec. 1973
2.   Loan 679-CO         Support second project phase of diversified secondary  70    Closed
Education II        education.                                                   July 1975
3.  Loan 920-CO          Provide common centers for secondary education.     74       Closed
Education III                                                                    March 1982
4.   Loan 1352-CO        Integrated Rural Development (DRI). Primary         77       Closed
Rural Development I   education component.                                       September 1984
5.   Loan 2192-CO        Support Subsector Project for Rural Primary         83       Closed
Rural Education     Education.                                                   March 1989
Subsequent Operations
1.  Loan 3683-CO         Improve the coverage quality and cost-effectiveness  94      Ongoing
Secondary Education   of secondary education.
2.   Loan 4242-CO        Consolidate and upgrade basic education expansion   98       Ongoing
Pasto Education     and quality in Pasto.
3.   Loan 4243-CO        Consolidate and upgrade basic education expansion   98       Ongoing
Antioquia Education   and quality in Antioquia.
4.   Rural Education     Support the improvement of delivery of quality      n/a      Under
education services in rural areas.                          preparation



- 18-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Project Cycle Steps                    Planned Date              Current Date/ Last Estimate
Identification (Project Executive Summary)
Preparation                                 Nov. 1986- Dec.1987               Nov. 1986- Dec.1987
SAR                                         Feb. 1988                         Feb. 1988
Negotiations                                Oct. 11-14, 1988                   Oct. 11-14, 1988
Subsector Policy Letter                     Oct. 7, 1988                      Oct. 7, 1988
Board Submission                            Dec. 12, 1988                      Dec. 12, 1988
Signature                                  Jan. 27, 1989                      Jan. 27, 1989
Effectiveness                               Mar. 28, 1989                      Mar. 28, 1989
Project Termination                         Dec. 31, 1994                      Dec. 31, 1997
Loan Closing                                Dec. 31, 1995                      March 31, 1998
Table 4: Project Disbursement: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual (US$million)
Fiscal Year                 90        91       92       93        94       95       96       97      98
SAR Estimate                2.0       7.0      18.0     33.0      50.0     71.0    90.0    100.0
Actual                      8.1       13.1     32.5      42.0     51.4-    59.3    65.0    81.0    95.9
Actual as % of estimate     403.7     187.8    180.3    127.2    102.7    83.5    72.2    81.0    95.9
Last Disbursement Date                                                                               03/98



- 19-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators for Project Implementation in              Estimate                          Actual
SAR
General
a)  Non-Personnel expenditure increase in    From I to 3%                          9%
recurrent expenditures
b)  Primary education-increased coverage     From 70 to 90% Rural                   81% total in 1997
c)  Primary education enrolment increase Rate    20% Rural                          NA
19.8% total
d)  Reduction in No. of years for primary    From 8.9 to 6.5 years                  NA
education graduation
e)  Increase in primary education graduation rate  From 20 to 60% Rural             NA
From 62 to 95% Urban                  NA
f)  Reduction in cost per primary education  30%                                    NA
student graduated
g)  Increase primary education share in      >From 20 to 35%                        1.68-2.84% of GNP
investment expenditures
Relocation of Teachers and Incentives
a)  Relocation of teachers to rural areas and urban  5,000 to rural areas    }      n/a
marginal areas                               Up to 3,000 to urban areas      }      n/a
b)  Progressive normalization of part-time   2,500 part-time teachers               n/a
contracts ("educational solutions") into permanent
contracts
c)  Incentives (housing loans and health     Housing loans to 2,000 rural teachers  n/a
insurance) for teachers transferred to rural areas
Physical goals
a)  Pedagogical training to teachers in Escuela    10,500 rural teachers as of 1991  }  105,300 teachers
Nueva methodology                            6,500 urban teachers as of 1990  }
b)  Provision of textbooks and libraries     29,060 Rural schools                   (35,917 rural schools
(7,070 urban schools
3.3 million textbooks                  { 15.8 million textbooks - rural
{4.4 million textbooks - urban
(2.3 million teacher textbooks
c)  Provision of file cabinets, blackboards and  13,000 rural schools               Minimum 20,000 schools total
furniture to students and teachers in schools  21,000 urban schools
d)  Classroom repairs                        719 rural schools                      862 rural schools
e)  New classroom construction               3,529 rural schools                    5,076 rural schools
n/a= not available, due to the fact that no indicator was established during project implementation.



-20-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Key Indicators for Project Implementation in           Estimate                           Actual
SAR
Civil Works:
a)   (lassroom Construction                3,600 rural schools                5,076 classrooms.
b)   Classrooms restoration                700 rural schools                  862 rural schools.
Furniture and materials:
a)   Procurement and use of materials for  4,000 rural schools               35,914 rural schools
teachers and students, and school libraries.
b)   Replacement of teaching materials     25,000 rural schools              27,000 schools
c)   Procurement and use of basic school   10,700 rural schools               Provision for:
furniture                             2,100 urban schools                35,917 rural schools
7,070 urban schools
d)   Textbook supply                       3.3 million textbooks             22.6 million textbooks
e)   Provision of classroom materials      For 30,000 classrooms
Training:
a)   Provision of pedagogic training to rural  For 20,000 rural teachers      105,300 teachers
teachers in-service                   For 6,500 teachers
b)  Provision of pedagogic training for teachers  -                           Completed
in-service
c)   Training in technical support at the central  -                          Completed
and regional levels
d)  Training on: local scheduling, planning and  -                            Completed
implementation
Technical Assistance:                           -                             Completed
a)   On central and regional technical support
b)   On local Scheduling, Planning and          -                             Completed
Implementation.



- 21 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study                                   Status              Study Impact
1.   Universalization Program Assessment (Instituto SER)  Completed: 1992        Substantial
2.  Information System for Primary Education Universalization  Completed: 1992   Substantial
Plan Administration (Instituto SER)
3.   Rural Teacher Diagnosis(FES)                         Completed              Substantial
4.  Identification and Characterization of Supply and Demand   Completed         Substantial
for Teacher Training (FUNDAYUDAS)
5.   Design of an Articulation Strategy between SENA      Completed              Substantial
Educational Programs and Rural Educational Programs
(FUNDAYUDAS)
6.   Directory and Characterization of Educational Supply  Completed             Substantial
(FUNDAEC)
7.   Evaluation and execution of the Soacha PEM 94-97 (ESAP)  Completed          Substantial
8.   Rural Sector Educational Policies and Programs (CES)  Completed             Substantial
9.   Analysis of Public Investment in Rural Education (GOMEZ  Completed          Substantial
TRUJILLO)
10.  Analysis of Rural Alternatives for Preschool and First Grade Completed      Substantial
Education (Fund. Univ. MONSERRATE)
11.  Analysis of the Situation and Perspective of using Radio and Completed      Substantial
TV in Rural Education (CONVISIONES)
12.  Impact Evaluation of the Program for Universalization of    Completed 1997  Substantial
Basic Primary Education - Management Component
(Procomun)
13.  Impact Evaluation of the Program for Universalization of    Completed       Substantial
Basic Primary Education - Cost-Effectiveness Component
(Econ6mica Consultores)
14.  Impact Evaluation of the Program for Universalization-    Completed         Substantial
Mathematics and Science Component (Carlos J. Diaz)
15.  Impact Evaluation of the Program for Universalization-    Completed         Substantial
Development in the Language Area Component (Asoc. Col.
de Semi6tica)
16.  Impact Evaluation of the Program for Universalization of    Completed       Substantial
Basic Primary Education - Statistical Analysis Component
(A. Vargas, J. Corzo, G. Diaz)



-22-
Table 8 A: Project Costs by Component
Estimated in SAR             Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
(US$M)
Item               Local  Foreign   Total    % of    Local  Foreign   Total    % of
Costs    Costs             Base    Costs   Costs1             Total
Cost
1.  Policy Component Subtotal   34.1             34.1    23.7      50.8              50.8    20.0
Teacher salaries and incentives   34.0         34.0              50.8              50.8
Higher Education Studies      0.1               0.1               0.0               0.0
2.  Primary Education           88.2     19.5   107.7    74.7    143.5    12.7    156.2        70.7
Development Component
Subtotal
Materials                    11.7      3.9     15.9              81.9*    11.1*    93.0*
Teacher Training              2.2      0.1      2.3              20.5      1.1    21.6
Furniture                    40.6      5.0    45.6
Classroom restoration        31.2      10.4    41.6              41.1              41.1
Studies and tests             2.5      0.1      2.6                        0.5      0.5
3.  Management Development       2.2      0.1      2.3      1.6      7.9      6.0     13.9      6.3
Component Subtotal
StafftrainingandTechnical      1.1      0.1      1.2               7.8      1.8      9.6
Assistance
Studies                        1.1     0.0      1.1               0.1      4.2      4.3
Total Base Costs               124.5    19.6   144.1   100.0   202.2         18.7   220.9    100.0
Physical Contingencies           5.0      0.8      5.8
Price Contingencies             16.7      2.6    19.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS   1 146.2    23.0    169.2    117.4   202.2           18.7   220.9    100.0
1 Includes direct transfers abroad to suppliers, UNDP and OEI.
* Includes furniture (Item 7).
Table 8 B: Project Funding
SAR Estimate (US$M)                  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source          Local    Foreign    Total       %        Local    Foreign    Total       %
Costs     Costs                         Costs      Costs
IBRD/IDA                 77.0      23.0     100.0      59.10     77.2       18.7      95.9      43.4
Central Govt            56.6        -        56.6      33.45    117.2        -       117.2      53.1
Departments               2.5       -         2.5       1.48      7.8*       -         7.8*      3.5
Municipalities           10.1       -        10.1       5.97
Total                  146.2       23.0     169.2     100.00    202.2       18.7     220.9     100.0
* Relating to Departments and Municipalities. Minimum estimate, not including the warehousing and distribution costs
of materials and furniture between 1994-97.



-23 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic rate of return was calculated in the SAR. Project benefits were expressed in terms of increased quality and
access without substantially increasing the expenses required for primary education.
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant   Section     Type of   Current      Original       Revised                 Covenant Description                        Comments
Covenant   Status    Termination   Terminatio
Date         n Date
Project   3.01 (c)    5                    Continuous                  Carry out studies, adopt policy measures, and    Completed
institutional improvements following an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.01 (d)    5                                                Carry out studies satisfactory to the Bank with outcomes Completed
to be discussed.
3.02 (a)    9                    9/30 annually               Perform an annual review of the subsector program with Annually. Completed
the Bank.
3.02 (b)    9                    11/30 annually              Prepare. investment plan proposed for the following  Completed
calendar year for Bank approval.
3.05 (b)    9                    6/30 y 12/31                Prepare an annual progress report for Bank review.  Completed
annually
3.06        10                   12/31/89                    Introduce the new SIED.                         The system was developed, but it
was not implemented.
3.07        10                   12/31/91                    Introduce the Student Assessment System.        They have a new program, which
is satisfactory to the Bank.
3.08 (b)    5                    Permanent                   Secure appropriate staff for the position of MEN Fund   The MEN always had a
and NES (Technical Secretariat for the Program)  Coordinating Unit.
Director
Types of agreement:
I Accounting/Audit                                                           10 Project implementation not covered under 1-9 categories
2 Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                 11 Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                                       12 Sector or cross-sector regulatory or institutional action policy
4 Counterpart funding                                                         13 Other
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 Environmental covenants                                            Status:  C =  Covenant complied with
7 Involuntary resettlement                                                   CD = Complied with after delay
8 Indigenous people                                                          CP= Covenant complied with partially
9 Monitoring, review and reporting                                           NC= Not complied with



-24-
Table 11:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements:
n/a
Table 12:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                  Planned              Revised              Actual
Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$      Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                                  121.6  211,820
Appraisal-Board
Negotiations through Board Approval
Supervision                                                                                75.1  227,003
Completion                                                                                 23.0    31,100
TOTAL                                                                                    219.7  469,923
Table 13:       Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating **
Stage of       Month/   Number    Days in        Specialized    Implemen-    Develop-    Types of
Project Cycle     Year        Of        Field      Staff Skills    itation        ment    Problems***
Persons               Represented*      Status     Objectives
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Supervision
I                   06/90
II                  10/90     1         1.4         AR              1             1
III                 12/91     2         0.7         OP,MG           2             1           F
IV                  06/92               3.3                         2            2            M
V                   /93
VI                  06/94     3         5.0         MG, OP
VII                 11/94     2         5.0         OP, EdS         S             S
VIII                02/95     5         0.8         MG, OP          U            U            M
IX                  06/95     3         4.0          OP, EdS
X                   06/96     4         2.9          OP, EdS        S             S
XI                  05/97     2         5.0         F, OP, EdS      S             S
XII                 05/97     2         5.0         F, OP, EdS      S             S
XIII                03/98     3         8.0         EC, OP, EdS    S              S
Completion
* Specialists: EC  Economist; EdS = Education Specialist, EG = Engineer; EP = Epidemiologist; F = Financial Analyst; HF =
Health Financial Specialist; L = Legal; MG = Management Specialist; OP = Operations Assistant / Specialist; P = Procurement
Specialist; PH = Public Health Specialist; PP = Population Specialist.
** Rating: I/HS = no problem; 2/S = moderate problems; 3/U = significant problems.
*** Types of Problems: L= Legal; M= Management; F= Funds availability; D= Disbursements; PR= Procurement



- 25 -
PART III: APPENDIXES
A.    Final Supervision Mission's Aide-Memoire
MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION NACIONAL
PROYECTO DE EDUCACION PRIMARIA
(3010-CO)
MISION DE SUPERVISION Y CIZERRE DEL PROYECTO
AYUDA MEMORIA
I.    Introducci6n
1.    En el marco de la estrategia de Supervisi6n y Asistencia Tecnica establecida en el Convenio
de Pr6stamo del Proyecto de Educaci6n Primaria se realiz6 durante el periodo comprendido entre el
19 y 25 de febrero una Misi6n del Banco Mundial cuyos objetivos fueron: (i) analizar la ejecuci6n
tecnica y financiera durante 1997, (ii) evaluar el estado de las licitaciones correspondientes a la
adquisici6n de material pedag6gico y para lo cual el Banco dio la extensi6n de la fecha de cierre del
proyecto hasta el 31 de Marzo, (iii) analizar el reporte de la auditoria de caracter especial y las
medidas que el Ministerio debe tomar para la justificaci6n total de los gastos efectuados durante el
periodo 1989-1993, (iv) analizar el avance en el proceso de justificaci6n de los gastos efectuados
durante el periodo 94-97 y la estrategia establecida por el Ministerio para el cierre del Proyecto, y
(v) discutir con el Gobiemo el objetivo, la estructura y alcance del Informe Final de Evaluaci6n
(ICR) del Proyecto asi con lo el establecimiento de un plan de trabajo conjunto para su desarrollo.
2.     Por el Banco hicieron parte de la Misi6n Martha Laverde (Jefe de la Misi6n), Carmen Elisa
Florez y Vicky Colbert (Consultoras Locales). Por el Gobiemo Nacional participaron del Ministerio
de Educaci6n Nacional la Dra. Rosa de Lima Gallo, Secretaria Tecnica, Esperanza Reyes de
Vargas, Coordinadora Unidad de Ejecuci6n y los equipos tecnicos, por el Departamento Nacional
de Planeaci6n, el Dr. Leonardo Villa, Jefe de la Divisi6n de Educaci6n y su equipo tecnico. La
mision se reuni6 con el equipo tecnico-financiero del Fondo Cuenta FIS-FINDETER. La Misi6n
agradece la colaboraci6n prestada durante el desarrollo de la presente Misi6n.
II.    Evaluaci6n de los Objetivos de Desarrollo e Impacto del Proyecto.
3.     Se hizo un analisis del logro de los objetivos de desarrollo del Proyecto a la fecha del cierre
del mismo, encontrandose que el Proyecto fue un instrumento de politica educativa en el sector, el
cual contribuy6 a incrementar las inversiones del municipio en la educaci6n basica primaria entre
un 20-30% reflejado en los aportes por de cofinanciaci6n para inversi6n en educaci6n. La ejecuci6n
financiera del proyecto mostr6 haber superado en cerca de un 30% los montos programados. La
ejecuci6n del proyecto parece haber incidido en el incremento del gasto en educaci6n durante estos
afios habiendo aumentado de 2.5 a 4.1 puntos del PIB. El gasto en insumos educativos creci6 de 1%
al 9% del gasto publico total en educaci6n, superando las metas propuestas por el programa. De
manera directa el Proyecto logr6:



-26-
*   incentivar la financiaci6n de las obras civiles en responsabilidad de los municipios,
encontrandose que a partir de 1994 este componente fue totalmente asumido por el
municipio.
*   incrementar la participaci6n de los municipios a trav6s del fortalecimiento de la
capacidad de gesti6n tanto del municipio como de la escuela.
*   dotar 28.391 escuelas con bibliotecas rurales, 78.120 mini-bibliotecas para las aulas,
7000 escuelas rurales se dotaron del set de guias para Escuela Nueva, se dotaron 900
municipios de mobiliario para un total de 273.000 nifios
*   el 67% de los servicios fueron entregados al area rural habiendose cumplido uno de los
objetivos de fortalecer la educaci6n basica primaria a nivel rural.
*   cerca de 30.000 maestros fueron capacitados durante la vida del proyecto en la
metodologia de Escuela Nueva.
4.     El Ministerio esta analizando la evaluaci6n del proyecto realizada a finales de 1997 en
donde cuatro elementos fueron evaluados: (i) la gesti6n del proyecto a nivel nacional, departamental
y municipal y en ella la participaci6n de los diferentes actores, (ii) el anAlisis de costo-efectividad
del proyecto, (iii) el analisis de logros academicos de los nifios y nifias que fueron poblaci6n
objetivo del proyecto y (iv) los valores y actitudes que fueron obtenidos como resultado de la
intervenci6n del proyecto. De todos estos estudios se establece un analisis descriptivo y
multivariado que permnitiran medir el impacto del proyecto en las condiciones de la educacion
basica primaria en el pais. Los resultados definitivos de dicha evaluaci6n seran proporcionados al
Banco al final del mes de marzo de 1998.
III.   Estado de la Implementaci6n del Proyecto. (Actividades autorizadas en la extensi6n
hasta el 31 de marzo de 1998)
5.     La licitaci6n para la adquisici6n de material pedag6gico que fue adjudicada en el mes de
Diciembre mediante tres contratos ha tenido algunas dificultades relacionadas con el proceso de
transici6n en la fusi6n FIS-Findeter. Dichas dificultades tienen que ver fundamentalmente con las
formas de pago y disponibilidades desde Findeter. La Misi6n fue informada, sin embargo que a
pesar de las dificultades para los pagos efectuados a los contratistas, Findeter estara al tanto de
garantizar que los respectivos contratos sean cumplidos en los terminos establecidos, garantizando
que los bienes sean entregados por las firmas antes de la fecha autorizada para extensi6n. Para esto
Findeter entregara al banco un informe de los avances y de las soluciones dadas a los problemas
presentados en la segunda semana de marzo.
6.     El Ministerio present6 un balance del cumplimiento de las actividades ejecutadas durante
1997 en la cual se evidenci6 que desde el punto de vista tecnico se dio un cumplimiento del 100% a
lo programado en el POA disefiando para tal afno. Los pagos efectuados durante los dos primeros
meses de 1998 corresponden a servicios y bienes entregados antes del 31 de diciembre y a la
liquidaci6n y cierre de los respectivos contratos.
7.     Durante la Misi6n se discuti6 el plan propuesto por el Ministerio y Findeter-FIS para la
justificaci6n de los gastos efectuados durante los afios 95-97, los cuales fueron realizados
fundamentalmente a traves de FIS y que corresponden en su gran mayoria a procesos licitatorios y
contratos mayores. Igualmente aquellos realizados a traves de organismos internacionales como



-27-
PNUD y SECAB. El Ministerio entregara al Banco a mas tardar el 30 de Abril las respectivas
justificaciones culminando asi el proceso de liquidaci6n y cierre del proyecto.
8.     Se discuti6 el reporte de la Auditoria de caracter especial efectuada por la firma Ulloa y
Cia., cuyo concepto fue favorable y en opini6n del Banco satisfactorio, aiun cuando se requiere de
una explicaci6n de los procedimientos seguidos por la firma de auditores que llevaron a emitir la
opini6n dada. El Ministerio enviara al Banco dichas aclaraciones a mas tardar el 15 de Marzo.
9.    Teniendo en cuenta que el proceso de justificaci6n, y as lo refleja el informe de la auditoria
de caracter especial, arroj6 una cifra de 350 mil d6lares que no fue posible encontrar el soporte
correspondiente para justificar su gasto a traves de los recursos del prestamo efectuados durante el
periodo 1989-93, el Ministerio esta realizando el ejercicio de encontrar los soportes
correspondientes a dichos montos y habiendo sido ejecutado con recursos de contrapartida nacional
y debidamente demostrado que dichos gastos fueron elegibles dentro del proyecto. El Ministerio
enviara al Banco dicha justificaci6n el 15 de Marzo del anio en curso.
10.   Con el fin de agilizar el proceso de liquidaci6n y justificaci6n de los contratos efectuados a
traves del Fondo cuenta FIS-Findeter (antiguo FIS) la Findeter establecera un plan de acci6n que
garantice que el cierre y presentaci6n de los soportes de dichos contratos puedan ser entregados al
Ministerio de Educaci6n antes del 30 de Abril.
IV.   Preparaci6n del Informe Final de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto -ICR
11.   La Misi6n present6 al Ministerio los objetivos, alcance y contenido del informe de
evaluaci6n (ICR) que, dentro del ciclo del proyecto, el Banco tiene establecido como etapa final en
la vida de un proyecto. Fue discutido y analizado los diferentes instrumentos y tipo de informaci6n
que debe ser requerido para dicha evaluaci6n, asi como los responsables desde el equipo del Banco
para su elaboraci6n. Se acord6 con el Ministerio los diferentes equipos del Ministerio, que de
acuerdo a las areas a ser analizadas proporcionaran la informaci6n y colaboraran en los analisis
respectivos.
12.   Teniendo en cuenta que la evaluaci6n que esta finalizando el Ministerio tiene la recolecci6n
de la mayoria de informaci6n y el analisis respectivo que el MEN esta preparando se solicit6 a la
misi6n esperar hasta que a mediados de Marzo se produzca la presentaci6n del documento para que
este sea entregado como insumo a la preparaci6n del documento. Sin detrimento de esta solicitud la
misi6n recomend6 iniciar la obtenci6n de la informaci6n que fuese necesaria y la disponibilidad del
personal del MEN para proporcionar los elementos de anAlisis que los miembros de la misi6n deben
tener por parte del equipo. Una vez el Ministerio haya realizado la discusi6n interna se organizarA
una reuni6n con los miembros de la misi6n encargados de la preparaci6n del ICR con el fin de ser
presentados dichos resultados como insumo para la preparaci6n del Informe final de evaluaci6n.
13.   Una especial discusi6n se dio al objetivo y alcance de la contribuci6n que el gobierno debe
preparar para el ICR. En ella se sefial6 que el Gobiemo nacional, Ministerio, Planeaci6n Nacional y
Ministerio de Hacienda, realizan su propio analisis de los logros, condiciones de implementaci6n y
evaluaciones de desempeffo en la perspectiva que este haya visto la ejecuci6n del proyecto.
14.   Teniendo en cuenta que una versi6n preliminar del ICR se enviara a las instancias de
gobierno para su analisis, se discuti6 la importancia de considerar que el informe preparado por las
partes, Gobierno Nacional y Banco Mundial no necesariamente suponen acuerdos en las
valoraciones que a la ejecuci6n y desempeffo del proyecto se den por las partes. Se respetara los
respectivos conceptos dados, tratando en el proceso de preparaci6n de discutir, concertar y acordar



-28 -
todos los hechos, informaci6n y datos que sustenten cualquier tipo de afirmaci6n que en el
documento se presente.
15.   La misi6n y el gobierno acordaron el cronograma respectivo para el desarrollo y
preparaci6n del ICR. Para tal efecto se deterrnin6 el equipo por parte del Ministerio que
proporcionara a la Misi6n y sera la contraparte para los respectivos analisis. El Ministerio
recomend6 que durante la preparaci6n del documento de evaluaci6n se Ilevaran a cabo reuniones
peri6dicas con el cuerpo directivo del Ministerio con el fin de tener de estas instancias una
participaci6n, analisis y consenso en la evaluaci6n que se presente. De igual manera el
Departamento Nacional de Planeacion sugiri6 de parte de ellos la participaci6n en dichas sesiones
de discusi6n.
V.    ACUERDOS
16.   Por el Ministerio:
* Enviar al Banco las aclaraciones sobre el proceso seguido en la auditoria de caracter
especial seguin recomendaciones hechas por el Banco . Fecha: marzo 30 de 1998.
*   Enviar al Banco la justificaci6n del saldo de gastos sin justificaci6n y encontrado en el
informe de auditoria efectuados durante 1989-93 el 30 de marzo de 1998.
*   Presentar al Banco la justificaci6n de los gastos efectuados durante el periodo 94-98 el
15 de mayo de 1998.
*   Presentar el informe de Auditoria de la vigencia 1997-1998 (esto es incluir lo
ejecutado durante los meses de la extensi6n dada para las licitaciones de material
pedag6gico) el 30 dejunio de 1998.
*   Enviar al Banco los resultados de la evaluaci6n del Proyecto el 15 de abril de1998.
*   Presentar al Banco por parte de FINDETER el 20 de Marzo el informe correspondiente
al estado de la licitaci6n de materiales pedag6gicos, sefialando en el las medidas
tomadas para garantizar la entrega y pagos efectuados antes de la fecha de cierre del
proyecto.
*   Entregar los informes correspondientes al componente de capacitaci6n, segAn lo
sefialado en el cronograma respectivo, el 10 de marzo de 1998.
*   Enviar al Banco la contribuci6n del gobierno nacional al ICR el 30 de abril de 1998.
17.   Por parte del Banco:
*   Enviar para comentarios del Gobiemo la versi6n preliminar del ICR el 30 de abril de
1998.



-29 -
Realizar al menos dos reuniones intermedias con las directivas del Ministerio y DNP
con el fin de discutir los avances en la preparaci6n del ICR. en abril 15 y 30 de 1998.
ROSA DE LIMA GALLO                          MARTHA LAVERDE
Secretaria Tecnica                         Banco Mundial
Bogota, 2 de marzo de 1998






-31 -
B.    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
CONTRIBUCION DEL GOBIERNO
APORTES DEL PRESTAMO AL PAIS Y LECCIONES APRENDIDAS
PRESTAMO 3010-CO BIRF - BANCO MUNDIAL 1989-1997
El Plan de Universalizaci6n de la Educaci6n Basica Primaria, iniciado en 1.989 con el prestamo
3010-CO suscrito entre el Banco Mundial, y el Gobierno Nacional-Ministerio de Educacion- y
culminado en 1997, a pesar de los problemas y dificultades presentados a lo largo de este texto
logro en su gran mayoria las metas propuestas, en relaci6n con la calidad y la cobertura del ciclo de
la educacion primaria. Super6 con exito, algunas las expectativas de transformaci6n de la educaci6n
del pais en sus aspectos administrativos y de politica, mediante nuevas estrategias de ejecuci6n y
manejo de los componentes del Plan, en el nivel institucional, nacional y territorial. Los diversos
estudios sobre diferentes areas, realizados con los recursos del plan, permitieron la exploraci6n y
planteamiento de teorias fundamentadoras de desarrollos innovadores en el campo pedag6gico,
administrativo y de evaluaci6n. Los estudios realizados en este ultimo aspecto, soportan la mayoria
de las apreciaciones que, aqui se plantean, como aportes del prestamo al pais y lecciones
aprendidas.
1.    FORTALECIMIENTO DE LA GESTION EDUCATIVA
El Plan fue concebido en el marco de una organizacion institucional centralista del pais, en donde la
mayor parte de los procesos legales, contables, flujos de recursos y de informaci6n, estaban
disefiados para responder a esa estructura del gobiemno nacional. Con la Constituci6n Nacional de
1991, la Ley 60 de 1993 sobre descentralizaci6n y la Ley 115 surgieron otras modalidades de
articulaci6n de los actores, en las diferentes instancias del gobierno, y en ellas el Plan se adapt6
parcialmente a estas nuevas situaciones en las lineas de gerencia, control, seguimiento y
evaluaci6n.. El Plan propici6 el desarrollo de un proceso de cofinanciacion a traves de los
programas de capacitaci6n, reubicaci6n de docentes y del componente de obras civiles
naci6n/municipio, con participaci6n y responsabilidad del departamento, municipio y naci6n. En
estos casos, el Plan fue pionero del proceso de descentralizaci6n y cofinanciaci6n, que desde la
primera mitad de la d6cada de los 90, se viene desarrollando y ajustando en el pais.
Mediante el componente de Fortalecimiento de la Gesti6n Educativa, el Ministerio de Educacion
logr6 iniciar un programa administrativo y financiero, llegando hasta la Instituci6n Educativa, con
recursos asignados por el Plan. Este fortalecimiento, considerado como un progreso del pais, fue
disefiado y desarrollado por el Ministerio, en procura del mejoramiento de la Instituci6n Educativa y
el desarrollo de nuevos modelos de gerencia de la instituci6n, para lograr la autonomia
institucional, la concertaci6n con las comunidades educativas, y la consolidaci6n de sus Proyectos
Educativos - PEI.
2.    ASISTENCIA TECNICA Y TRABAJO CON LA COMUNIDAD
La descentralizaci6n y participaci6n comunitaria, para asumir la conduccion de la educaci6n de los
pueblos, dentro de la convivencia y la solidaridad, ha sido un proceso en el que el Plan particip6
con asistencia tecnica, producci6n y distribuci6n de insumos educativos de uso masivo, talleres,
capacitacion e investigaci6n y publicaciones, programas de televisi6n etc. Merece mencionar
algunos proyectos como la conscientizaci6n de la Paz y la democracia en la escuela, formaci6n de
docentes en aspectos pedag6gicos y derechos humanos, trabajo con la comunidad para mejorar el



- 32 -
medio ambiente, evaluaci6n de la calidad de la educaci6n, planeaci6n, administraci6n y seguimiento
por parte de entidades nacionales, departamentales y municipales.
La expansi6n de la filosofia y metodologia de la Escuela Nueva, merece destacarse. Haber Ilevado y
orientado insumos educativos a las zonas deprimidas y aisladas, permiti6 expandir una politica de
Estado, para asegurar el acceso a la educaci6n y garantizar que el alumno termine el ciclo de la
educaci6n bAsica primaria. Esta expansi6n, se entiende como la adecuaci6n de la oferta de cupos en
funci6n de la demanda. La Evaluaci6n de Impacto, muestra como entre 1990 y 1997, el 48% de las
escuelas rurales aumentaron grados escolares; y solamente el 8.4% del total de las escuelas del pais,
ofrecen el ciclo de primaria incompleto.
3.     MEDICIONES DE LA CALIDAD DE LA EDUCACION
Algunos de los datos mas relevantes que arroj6 la evaluaci6n del Plan en materia de calidad se
pueden ver en aspectos como: (i) en actitudes y valores infantiles la evaluaci6n de Impacto
encontr6 que el ochenta y cinco por ciento de los alumnos se ubica, en el Coeficiente Valorativo -
CV en aceptable y Sobresaliente. Sin embargo, existe un 16% que reportan CVs deficientes,
inferiores a los esperados para ninios con edades equivalentes; (ii) en matematicas la prueba
permiti6 identificar como para 3 y 4 grados, que el enfasis en matematicas esta en la aritmetica
de las cuatro operaciones con nuimeros enteros. En esta perspectiva, los alumnos presentan mejor
desempenlo en la suma, con el 66% en promedio de respuestas correctas, seguido de la
multiplicaci6n y la divisi6n con el 49% en promedio. El concepto de resta es el que presenta mayor
dificultad con un rendimiento promedio del 28.5%; (iii) en Ciencias Naturales, la evaluaci6n
permiti6 conocer c6mo el area de mejor desempefno en ciencias es la de los Seres Vivos, tanto en 30
como en 4grado, Para ciencias de la vida, se tiene el 58% de respuestas correctas en promedio. El
Area de desempefio mas bajo es ciencias de la tierra, con porcentajes promedio de respuestas
correctas del 43%; (iv) en Lenguaje, la situaci6n problematica se encuentra en la debilidad para
hacer lectura critica de los textos. En tal sentido, la prioridad para la formaci6n de nuevos lectores
en la escuela ha de enfocarse hacia el anAlisis critico de los textos. Seria deseable que mas de la
mitad de los ninios de tercer grado pudiera hacer lectura critica de los textos.
Los resultados del analisis estadistico muestran como los logros academicos de los estudiantes son
superiores en la zona urbana. En valores no se encuentran diferencias significativas entre en la zona
urbana y la zona rural; (ii) en la zona rural, los mayores puntaj es en valores los obtienen los
estudiantes de Escuela Nueva y ademAs los alumnos muestran logros superiores en areas humanistas
(valores y lenguaje) con relaci6n a las areas tecnicas (matematicas y ciencias); (iii) los
departamentos mas altamente intervenidos por el Plan de Universalizaci6n fueron (Boyaca,
Antioquia, Valle y Santander) presentan logros mas altos que los obtenidos conjuntamente en el
resto de los departamentos.
4.    RESULTADOS Y MANEJO FINANCIERO DEL CREDITO.
El Plan realiz6 inversiones adicionales en un 30%, de lo programado inicialmente; la evaluaci6n
costo-efectividad, confirma que los objetivos financieros se cumplieron en un plazo de cinco afios.
Las inversiones totales del programa ascendieron a $252.334 millones a pesos de 1997, equivalentes
a US$ 221 millones, siendo el monto negociado $US 169.2 millones.
Los recursos fiscales que el gobierno central destina para el sector de educaci6n bAsica han tenido
un constante incremento en el presente decenio. En el lapso de ocho afnos, los recursos se
multiplicaron por 2.3, lo que equivale a un crecimiento promedio de 13% real anual. La



-33 -
financiaci6n puiblica para la educaci6n basica super6 los $3,14 billones en 1997 (64% situado fiscal,
20% participaciones municipales y 16% presupuesto nacional)
La concepci6n de politica del sector, con la cual se estructur6 el proyecto, parece haber incidido en
las profundas transfornaciones que vivi6 el sector educativo durante la etapa de ejecuci6n del plan.
En estos anios, el gasto en educaci6n aument6 de 2,5 a 4,01 puntos del PIB, corrigiendo en parte los
atrasos que presentaba el pais con relaci6n a los patrones internacionales. De hecho, el gasto global
por alumno es similar a los niveles recomendados por los expertos en el tema. Por otra parte, el
gasto en insumos educativos creci6 del 1% al 9% del gasto puiblico total en educaci6n, superando
las metas propuestas por el programa.
A pesar de que la contribuci6n financiera del Plan es marginal, su real trascendencia radic6 en el
efecto demostrativo que gener6. Los gastos diferentes a remuneraciones ganaron espacio
ampliandose del 4% al 9.1%. El Plan s6lo represent6, en promedio, 1,3 puntos de ese aumento, lo
que significa que, por cada peso que el Plan destin6 para insumos educativos, logr6 orientar tres
pesos a prop6sitos similares.
Alrededor del 80% de la inversi6n del Plan recay6 en el mejoramiento de las condiciones
ambientales y pedag6gicas de los alumnos, que se ha identificado como uno de los factores claves
para desestimular la deserci6n y repitencia escolar. Ademas, se confirm6 que el Plan cumpli6 con el
objetivo de enfocarse esencialmente en las escuelas rurales.
El Plan distribuy6 casi 25 millones de textos, lo que quiere decir que cada alumno recibi6, en
promedio, seis libros. Con la entrega de pupitres, se vieron beneficiados por lo menos 1'286.000
alumnos de educaci6n primaria oficial, es decir, el 25% tuvo la oportunidad de contar con
escritorios y sillas nuevas. Este indicador puede ser superior si se consideran las jornadas
adicionales. En el area rural, el beneficio fue aun mayor debido a que las mesas trapezoidales
estuvieron destinadas en esa zona.
Los estantes, archivadores y juegos didacticos se distribuyeron exclusivamente en escuelas rurales,
la cobertura fue de 59%, 75% y 83% respectivamente. El Plan aun no ha distribuido los bauiles
escolares, pero se espera que todas las escuelas, tanto urbanas como rurales, cuenten con una
dotaci6n de este tipo. Se entregaron 570.000 paquetes de uitiles escolares, sin embargo, este
programa desafortunadamente no tuvo continuidad a pesar de que su inversi6n es relativamente baja
($4.3 85 por alumno) y sus beneficios son extensos.
El Plan adquiri6 a traves de licitaciones la mayoria de los bienes que distribuy6. Este mecanismo
garantiza, en principio, que los precios obtenidos corresponden a los que cualquier consumidor
obtiene en el mercado y, por lo tanto, son 6ptimos. Esto se corrobor6 con indagaciones de precios
de mercados de algunos de los insumos educativos y no existen indicios de sobrecostos en las
compras realizadas por el Plan. Este proceso de cre6 igualmente, en el Ministerio una capacidad
para manejar sistemas competitivos de adquisiciones lo cual fue ampliamente apoyado por el
Banco.
5.   DESEMPENO DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
Los acercamientos del Banco con las entidades ejecutoras del credito, se materializa a traves de las
misiones de supervisi6n, asistencia tecnica y evaluaci6n. La percepci6n del Ministerio es que estas
obedecen, en muchas ocasiones a sistemas rigidos, dirigidos especialmente a las areas financieras y
contables; en detrimento de los aspectos tecnicos y administrativos que en momentos de transici6n,
como los ocurridos en el pais entre 1991 y 1994, hubieran sido necesarios. En este sentido se espera



-34 -
que dichas misiones se orienten a las necesidades y dificultades que sufren los proyecto en su
ejecuci6n y ayuden a solucionarlas; bien sea, con apoyo de caracter tecnico, administrativo, y de
Gesti6n, entre otros.
Se reconoce la flexibilidad del Banco para ajustarse a los cambios institucionales. Sin embargo, se
siente como en el afan de cumplir con la ejecuci6n de los recursos programados, perdiendose el
norte del sentido de la inversi6n social, en este caso -el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n
y mejoramiento de la cobertura.
Las Ayudas Memoria de las misiones de supervisi6n, hacen recomendaciones plenamente aceptadas
por las partes, que deberian ser objeto de un seguimiento mas riguroso por parte del Banco, esto
minimizaria un poco los riesgos producidos por los continuos cambios del personal, tanto en las
entidades del nivel central y las entidades territoriales; procesos normales en estos paises.
Es de resaltar que en las misiones de asistencia tecnica del Banco se dieron temas de interes para el
pais como el seguimiento y evaluaci6n de la calidad de la educaci6n iniciandose asi la
construcci6n y aplicaci6n de las pruebas del SABER, asi como el montaje de un sistema integral de
evaluaci6n de impacto. Esto es considerado por el pais como uno de sus mejores logros en la
evaluaci6n de la educaci6n, procesos que se han sostenido y mejorado a traves del tiempo.
A pesar de las dificultades en la instrumentaci6n del Plan, debe destacase el apoyo que el Banco
propici6 en la expansi6n de la filosofia y de la metodologia de la Escuela Nueva en las zonas
rurales y el haber llegado a zonas deprimidas y aisladas con elementos basicos en el mejoramiento
de la calidad de la educaci6n, como son los textos, el mobiliario, la construcci6n de escuelas y
mejoramiento de las aulas y, la capacitaci6n a los docentes. Estos aciertos cumplen los objetivos
del credito externo, en terminos de proteger una politica de Estado y asegurar su continuidad
ademas, el Plan propici6 que muchos pises miraran la experiencia colo9mbiana como modelo a
implantar.
Se debe destacar el hecho de contar con un jefe de proyecto en la Misi6n Residente del Banco, pues
es reconocido por todos que esto mejora el desarrollo del proyecto, facilitando y mejorando el
mutuo acuerdo en la toma de decisiones.
6.    DESEMPE1NO DE LA ENTIDAD PRESTATARIA
Los mecanismos de seguimiento y control de la ejecuci6n del Plan se hicieron individualmente por
entidades y no sobre la red institucional que intervino. Para futuras experiencias, una alternativa es
crear una unidad de seguimiento y control con la representaci6n de las entidades del orden nacional,
territorial, la comunidad educativa y en general de la sociedad civil involucrada.
Sin desconocer los esfuerzos que se hicieron en el orden nacional para la divulgaci6n del Plan, una
estrategia mas agresiva que garantice la participaci6n directa de beneficiarios y prestatarios en todo
el proceso, es fundamental. Asi, se mejora la eficiencia de los Proyectos y se logra mayor
transparencia en la selecci6n de los beneficiarios, resultado del control ciudadano, que debe
enfrentar las practicas clientelistas en las inversiones puiblicas asi como a los continuos cambios de
las administraciones.
Como ha acontecido con todos los planes y programas disefiados en una estructura centralizada, casi
todos los procesos legales, contables, los flujos de recursos y de informaci6n, estAn disefiados para
responder a una triple estructura horizontal de gobiemo nacional, departamental y municipal. En



- 35 -
este caso, el Plan se adapt6 parcialmente a esta nueva situaci6n en la linea de gerencia, de control,
de seguimiento y de evaluaci6n, lo que hizo mas dificil su ejecuci6n.
Pese a los esfuerzos y postulados de las politicas descentralistas del MEN, sus actuaciones fueron
planificadas e instrumentadas en el orden nacional. En futuros planes y proyectos es ineludible
fortalecer la presencia de los municipios en la toma de decisi6n y, no solo, de coordinacion y
ejecuci6n de proyectos, lo cual significa acercar el Estado a las comunidades e instrumentar la leyes
y normativas que sobre Participacion Ciudadana el pais ha desarrollado.
Se debe reconocer como desde 1995 se registr6 un cambio sustancial en la ejecuci6n del Plan y se
reflejo en una alto nivel de ejecuci6n tanto de sus metas fisicas como financieras durante los anios
1996 y 1997. La Unidad Coordinadora de Programas de Credito Externo -UCP- tuvo importantes
avances en la gesti6n del credito con efectos sobre la ejecuci6n de los recursos programados. Tales
acciones seran mAs eficientes si se acompanian con el replanteamiento del actual esquema de
planeaci6n del MEN-UCP y la ejecuci6n por parte del FIS. En la actualidad, la gesti6n del cr6dito
3010 se concentra en la gesti6n de legalizaci6n y evaluaci6n de su ejecuci6n. Con un sistema de
planeaci6n integral al interior del MEN y de red con las entidades ejecutoras, se harian mAs
eficientes las actividades de ejecuci6n, seguimiento y alcance de los objetivos de politica sectorial
desde el inicio de cualquier operaci6n de credito.
A lo largo de la evaluaci6n que el Ministerio hizo del Plan se registr6 que las entidades
involucradas del orden nacional, no comparten oportuna y suficientemente la informaci6n sobre
este. El sistema de informaci6n-decisi6n, para futuras experiencias, debe estructurarse desde el
comienzo y en el marco de una red interinstitucional. Debe ser actualizada y funcional y contener
informaci6n amplia sobre todos los componentes de la gesti6n.






-37 -
C.   Government Commentary on the ICR
*?epzkMt e  CW*bh
flNISTTSJ OF.iDUAC46N IrACIONAL.
Santafd de BogotA D.C., 12 de Junlo do 1998
Doctor
MARTUA LAtVRDE
Espccialista Proyeetos Scor Social
Unidad de desarroilo Hummno
LCSHD- Colombia
Banuco Mundial
CiuJad
Asunto: INFORMS DE CIERRE DEL PROYECTO DUCACION P?RQvARIA-CR-
PRESTAMO 3010. CO.
Apreciada doctora.
HU os leido el document de Ia rkecia, el cual can una concepcidn intwr   reoxstruye y
analiza el desaolia dil Plan &  Univaralizi6  en  ss priacipales aspectos cmo la
gesti6n, manjo fiancico, casto-efectividad, procesos adnimiitraivas c impat en ei
usuario final. Com  documeato ruen  dcl desaroio de  ua esategia  financiera,
cantrado en la evaiuaci6n de la planeai66n y ejecucidn del Plan, contiene ciccnts
umportantes, a tener en cuea, en Lutas operaciones fiai     especl=  - 
extemos con destino a inveri6n social.
Por el caMter  de Documento resuma   se cntiende que algms aspetms son  apenas
mencionados, pero que por la trascendencia del mma o pr cl imparto prodtcido eni d secr
educativoe me penmto hacer los sig-entes comentarios:
L La cobertwa de Ia capacitacin en servicio, segn ci ICR, alcaaza ua cifra aproximada de
105.300 doccnres, equivalente a la tercera pate del total de docentes ie la cduci6n oficial
bsica y media; dicha cifra queda rzagada al corwararla con los resultados de la encuesta de
la Evaliaci6n de Ipao, en donde al direor de la escuela se le pregutt, - de los docaces
actuaes cuantos han sid capacados-, obtenkodose una cobera del 67.6% dc las escuelas
con mas dcl 50% ia& sus dorentes capacitados, ei 11.6% oatre un 20% y -un S0% de sus
docentes capacitados y, el 19.9% dte los planitsi tenon capacitados mens del 20% de sus
docentcs (1 4pregimta excluye los docentes capacitados que ya no esten la cducacin
oficial, pero que si rpreentan un valor agregado parm c sistema educative); resutados
diferentes al citado n el ICRK  Adicionral al proceso de capacitaci6n a los cincntes en sarvicio,



-38-
se desaroti6 la  esteg  de asistencia t&nica y capacitci6n a los municiplos y
44partamenos, en herraminas de gesti6n ,edwaiva y fiwalcera (1.996 y 1.997), lo que
perrit  preparar al personal adminisuftivo municipal para asimilar el poeso de gestin dei
Proyecto de ucaci6n Secundazia PACES.
2. En Ia pant de (iEST-UN del Plan, periodo 1.989 a 1.997 el ICR planica "tn el pais se
dieron grndes  cnbios instucjonals Yreaeionados con la d&3=Uri aci6m  y  Ta
participacin comrunaria. El proyecto de hcho zo se ajuA6 con la suiciente clarind  a
dwichs carnhios: los mecanismos de sogu eto y contro] de la ejecuci6n del plan se hicieron
(C..) sin la particpaw   de las eitidades territoriales y la sociedad civil, 1o qte  dafect6
negativameant la gesti6n del proyecto". Esta aseverci& capta una paste dc la sitnaciai, no
seria juso ni con ce poyecto ni con  i seo  d0j'ar de. mecionar couo ei Plan dc
Universalizaci6n y todav;a nAs aurAsel Plan d Fomcmtoe, furon lospionotos dcl sis  dtedd
>ofinanciaci6n en  paIs con el componente de constcim6n de obras vivi1es, en donde lW
entidades enies y la coiunidadparticiparon  i tec wos, qUiCles a la vez acUam
ctoo veedores  del desrollo fisko y fiancrier  de :as obras. Pot oar pute, nl
disT5uci6n de los comonxnes del Man, fuSern las entidades tciWalcs las resporsables
de entregros en las escuelas y lagaiiza  i ~'ecibido; cmto gener4, aunqw incente, una
culkun dc ges 'n en  Set wpropiciando eI dcsarrloo de nuevos pra7cto, con &fasis en
coIinacaci6 como el de mejarsnliento de li cobertum y la clidad de la cducacion PACES,
ecntre otros.
3. Las Misiones de Supervisi6n realiz&s por cl Bn  cMundiaI hiieronm imbsis cn
procesos t&icos que tuvieron ur impacto mas a4 de Ia irploentain ='SMa dcl
proyecto, cono afue la evaiuaci6n del Sistema de Coiimciaci6n y la estratgia de
capacli6ac   tambi4n apoy6 i edes=ollo de los proesos de Adqqisiciones de mateiales y
mobiliado pero, en aigunos rnamentos coma se menzciona en la pigin 30, Numeral 68, la
evaluaci6n del Banco se qued6 ctal no detectar problemas scros Como la a cia dun
sistema contable y fimmdero que p tiera  mdncsar y       r a su di  t           las
gastos efeetados a travs  del proyecto, ni los indicarcs d4e logro de los objctivo9s De ota
pat, a pesar de haberse rolizado las  misiones de supervisi6n, estas no hicieron
seguiniento al cumplimiento de las rooornendaciones de las VWi'iones
4. M"ece especial menci6n el impulso qUe el Plan dio a la expami6n de la filosofla y
metodolhgia de la Escuela Nueva promovida par el Estado, para asegurar cl acwcso a la
cducacin y gartizar que ci alwu o tormine   el ticlo de la educaci6n bisica
primaiaecianiente ee ci mrca riu-a dce pais, donde se presenta escasez dc dcntes y ui
indicOar nu  baJo de alunnos por grado. La Evaluaci6n de Impact  ra   corno entre
1 990 y I 997, el 48% de las esxelas ruales aumentmn, grados escolares, permtiendo asi a
los aluinos interesados concuir el ciclo de sus estudios primaios.



-39 -
Si L.n los recursos del cr&dito queda un sdo sin ejecutax pox valor de U.S.S4.259.42.46
debido principafmente: (i)  saldos no comprometidos qua fuer   soHcitados en adicidn
presupuest  y no aceptados por las condiciones fsales  del paif; (U) los recs
prupuestales neesauios coma correctivos a la  polftica moaetaria del paL; y (ini) a la
difarencia ante Las mm de cambia utilizadas en la proyec-cin de los prupuestos y las tas
de cambia ralks, durantc c1 peiodo 1.999 a 1.997, aplJeadas en el mommno 'I cftctr  los
pagas.
fliasicIiFlo            curosm del Ba=co  Mundal






-41 -
VDS-DECLftVA-112
$an:e-    i rje  -:,    I   u2 .    Ce  f ~ 
nnca<,ncl dof 1,tneuctKJ
DCor
MARTHA LAVERDE
~~~~~~~ 4-
Uiidad Desaacdio Hurmarc
3-ANCOM'UN0!AL
C.nm esp{tje2a a su sc~c-~e -iIr-l~1-' -e' 1-'ao
e    -c  crnt 'a            - prcsitamo 3010-m
-.                           .- .   L3 C                                 -   - i ,~     _ ~     4*
D,,r  i,-;,5fo   ref>bg>aJZ 3nao -r:9petftiX>10Wi
Li n   ,   an6iisis eouawibracio v pe-nente ac-rca de 'a ejac.cu-i6n d&r p:royect  y 
e<<: an-e ;S;st<   ->7 ,- -era NU  X Za; c>7l+  cscW .etS  $igrj          iytr*       emao
fitv,) rr^aJese  iori A0 u9% tra7 ^9i  'if-, Q se fir. Ia
dctflO cor-cerane se ree' tJ~ o lota I  no 'cca] gasW- cc nrver io
996  l ag 'cto 1         pemina  *  7 m      E-8'nta  cifre pareca aita f'  - c    a o"n'0sr'zr
o,lw       i e  eS t-c- OevKSflartawrntWi, !cs f--uaff, e 6afn3r que7 antfue s994 y 199Bif el OW,10t
t e4'-4~"   -Si                                   -              --  n  ;                 - :   l e
~ -r,~c  ~ ~3(OIO4A4rf ZCY~. Ce  zst:otitc-z to                   n.i.  '
r e:-c  en    m rvaqraio 22 con uria &r a que u  cotrmC.ice .       - :jS  ita :ra .ran
CflIYC KUCS  W CnSefls CC;orlr2I7Ct S    q~rrMMICSCe -  "r*a.sa  .~--
O.r ~ ~ ~ ~
,  J ^2 'f~~~OAk S                   t. RDs'  .               * 
de     -  Ces rrwlo Shc Sa



