Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3010-CO
Loan Agreement
(Second Subsector Project for Primary Education)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 27, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3010-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) The Bank has received a letter dated October 7, 1988, from the 
Borrower: (a) describing a program of policies, actions and investments designed to 
improve resource management and mobilization for primary education and to raise the 
educational quality at this level while supporting access to all school-aged children 
(hereinafter the Program); (b) stating that the Program is essential to support the 
sustained social and economic development of the Borrower; (c) declaring its 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and (d) requesting the Bank's assistance 
in the execution of the Program, which includes a 1989-1994 investment plan for the 
primary education sub sector;
(B)
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which will support the 
execution of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"MEN" means the Ministerio de Educacion Nacional of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"Departamento" means any of the Borrower's political subdivisions called 
Departamentos, Comisarias and Intendencias where Part A of the Project will be carried 
out;
(c)
"FER" means each of the Fondos Educativos Regionales, the regional 
educational funds established by Degree No. 3157, dated December 26, 1968, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement.
(d)
"Municipality" means any of the political subdivisions of a Departamento 
where Part A of the Project will be carried out;
(e)
"Financial Management Entity" means any financiaL entity acceptable to 
the Bank and the Borrower referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Investment" means any specific investment or activity such as teacher 
training, acquisition, distribution  and utilization of educational materials, school 
furniture and equipment and execution of civil works, included in Part A of the 
Project, to be carried out at national, departmental or municipal levels by the 
Borrower, respective Departamento and FER or
Municipality with the assistance of the Financial Management Entities;
(g)
"Eligible Investment a means an Investment as so defined, which has been 
approved by the Borrower through MEN and the Bank as part of the Annual Investment 
Program referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Manual" means the following guidelines published by MEN: (i) the 
Procedural Manual (Manual de Procedimientos), dated September, 1988; and (ii) the 
Program for the Universalization of Basic Primary Education, dated October, 1988 
(Program a de Universalizacion de la Educacion Basica Primaria), both comprising the 
Borrower's plan for expansion of its Basic Primary Education;
(i)
"Departmental Agreement" and "Supplemental Departamental Agreement" means 
any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.03 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, 
respectively;
(j)
"FONDO-MEN" means Fondo del Ministerio de Educacion Nacional, MEN's 
Ministerial Fund of National Education;
(k)
"Municipal Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Estatutos" means Law No. 35 of 1979 of the Borrower, establishing 
FONDO-MEN and Decree No. 382 of 1980 and Decree No. 2371 of 1981 further regulating 
the provisions of such law, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(n)
"NES" means the National Executive Secretariat of the Sub-sector Program, 
the Secretaria Ejecutiva Nacional del Programa de Universalizacion de la Educacion 
Page  3
Basica Primaria.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Banco de la Republica on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shalL 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the Interest Period 
in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest ant other charges shall be payable semi-annually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the Amortization Schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project acting through FONDO-MEN, and such other entities of the 
Borrower as shall be required, and shall cause each of the Departamentos and their 
respective FER and the Municipalities, and such other entities of the Borrower as 
shall be required, to execute the Eligible Investments and Parts A and B of the 
Page  4
Project, as applicable, through FONDO-MEN, all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate educational, administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide and cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) acting through FONDO-MEN and MEN, cause each of 
the Departamentos and their respective FER to identify and prepare the Investments  in 
their respective jurisdictions in accordance with the criteria and procedures there 
for set forth in the Manual; and (ii) acting through FOND OMEN, review each of the 
Investments submitted by the Departamentos, and where appropriate, provide approval to 
any Investment to be financed out of the Loan that has
been included in the annual investment programs referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement, following for such purposes the procedures and criteria there for set forth 
in the Manual.
(c)
The Borrower, acting through MEN, shall carry out Part B of the Project 
in accordance with a plan of action ant a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. 
(d)
(i) The Borrower, acting through MEN, shall carry out the studies 
included under Part
B of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) promptly upon 
their completion, the Borrower, acting through MEN, shall furnish to the Bank the 
recommendations of such studies; and (iii) the Borrower acting through MEN, shall 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on the recommendations of such 
studies.
Section 3.02. (a) Not later than September 30 each year, the Borrower, acting 
through MEN, shall meet with representatives of the Bank to review the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in implementing the annual investment program (as defined in 
paragraph (b) below) and the progress achieved by the Borrower in executing Part B of 
the Project, both for the immediately preceding calendar year.
(b)
Not later than November 30 each year, the Borrower, acting through 
FONDO-MEN, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for approval, a detailed annual 
investment: program for the immediately following calendar year (the Annual Investment 
Program), such Annual Investment Program to be of such scope and detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, based on determinations reached by the Bank pursuant to the 
reviews under paragraph (a) above, and to include Investments which: (i) meet the 
criteria and standards set forth in the Manual; (ii)  are consistent with the 
objectives and policies of the Program referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(iii) when applicable, take into account the availability of resources, progress 
achieved towards meeting the policy, investment, institutional and management 
objectives of the Program and the previous year's Annual Investment Program; and (iv) 
when applicable, take into account the progress achieved by each Departamento and 
Municipality in the execution of previously approved Eligible Investments and
the accessibility for purposes of execution and supervision of the areas where the 
Investments are to be carried out.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change 
the approved Annual Investment Programs or terms of the Investments included therein.
Section 3.03. (a) In respect of Parts A (1), (2)  and (4) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall enter into, acting through FOND OMEN, an agreement with each of the 
Departamentos and their respective FER (the Departamental Agreements), on terms 
satisfactory to the Bank, such agreements to provide, inter alia, for: (i) the 
institutional and operational arrangements (including procurement and accounting and 
auditing procedures) to be undertaken by each of the Departamentos and their 
respective FER (including the Municipalities, as required) in order to carry out said 
parts of the Project at the departmental ant municipal levels and, specifically, for 
the preparation and execution of the Eligible Investments under said parts of the 
Project; and (ii) the joint obligation of each Departamento and its respective FER to 
execute each of the Eligible
Investments under said parts of the Project (together with the Municipalities, as 
required), with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
educational, administrative and financial practices, and to maintain all facilities 
under said parts of the Project;
Page  5
(b)
In respect of Part A (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall, in addition 
to entering into the corresponding Departamental Agreement, enter into, acting through 
FONDO-MEN, a supplemental agreement with each of the Departamentos and their 
respective FER (the Supplemental Departamental Agreements), on terms satisfactory to 
the Bank such agreements to provide, inter
alia, for: (i) the provisions of sub-paragraphs (a) (i) and (ii) above as they shall 
apply to Part A (3) of the Project; ant the execution of agreements, satisfactory to 
the Bank, (the Municipal Agreements) with each of the Municipalities of the 
Departamento or Departamentos where Eligible Investments under Part A (3) of the 
Project shall be executed and, when required, with, the participation of one or more 
financial institutions acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower (each such institutions 
hereinafter called the Financial Management Entity), such agreements to provide, inter 
alia, for execution arrangements, accounting, audit and procurement procedures.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce the provisions of the agreements referred to in (a) and (b) above and 
shall cause the Departamentos not to amend, in a manner which in the opinion of the 
Bank affects materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project, or fail to 
enforce the provisions of the Municipal
Agreements without the prior agreement of the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall carry out and, as applicable, cause the 
Departamentos and Municipalities to carry out the obligations set forth in Section 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and report:s, respectively) in 
respect of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower, acting through 
FONDO-MEN and MEN, shall:  (i) prepare the completion report referred to in Section 
9.07 (c) of the General Conditions; and (ii) prepare and furnish to the Bank not later 
than June 30 and December 31 each year, a report of such scope and detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request on the progress of the
execution of the Project.
Section 3.06. Not later than December 31, 1989, the Borrower, acting through 
MEN, shall introduce planning and project management subsystems, satisfactory to the 
Bank, in MEN's integrated information system for education, and shall provide the 
staff, facilities and other resources required to operate such subsystems. 
Section 3.07. Not later than December 31, 1991, the Borrower, acting through 
FONDO-MEN and MEN, shall take all action required to put into effect on a national 
scale, and in terms satisfactory to the Bank, the system for evaluating student 
achievement in primary education to be developed under Part B (5) (a) of the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower, acting through MEN, shall at all times maintain 
NES and the position of National Executive Secretary of the Primary Education 
Subsector, and shall assign to NES the overall responsibility for ensuring that the 
execution of the Project is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall insure that at all times those persons appointed as 
the Directors of NES and FONDO-MEN shall meet minimum qualifications and experience 
standards acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained, procedures 
and separate records and accounts at equate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources ant expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
Page  6
the Project, the Departamentos and Municipalities and to
monitor and record the progress of each Eligible Investment (including its costs and 
the benefits to be derived from it).
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
including 
those for the Special Account, and the records and 
accounts for each Eligible 
Investment for each  fiscal year audited 
in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with Section 
4.01 of this
Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;  
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that if any of the 
events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) below shall have occurred and be continuing, 
the suspension of the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may 
be limited by the Bank to withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures related to 
the Departamento or Departamentos or Municipality or
municipalities affected: 
(a)
the Estatutos shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower or its obligations under this Agreement;
(b)
that any provision of the Manual shall have been amended in a manner 
which in the opinion of the Bank affects materially and adversely the carrying out of 
the Project;
(c)
that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that 
the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
Page  7
(d)
that any Departamento or FER shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under a Departmental Agreement, in a manner which in the opinion of the 
Bank affects materially and adversely the carrying out the Project; and
(e)
that any Municipality or Financial Management Entity shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under a Municipal Agreement, in a manner which in the 
opinion of the Bank affects materially and adversely the carrying out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following events are specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraphs (a) or 
(b) of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01.  The date April 27, 1989 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  The Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, D.E.
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHACCO
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
Page  8
By /s/ Victor Mosquera Chaux
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated        % of
                        (Expressed in    Expenditures
     Category        Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works under   23,500,000     55%
     Part A (3) of
     the Project
(2)  Furniture and       60,000,000     100% of foreign
     materials under                    expenditure and
     Part A (1), (2)                    90% of local
     and (4) of the                     expenditures
     Project
(3)  Training:                          100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
     (a)  under Part A    2,400,000     90% of local
          (1) and (4)                   expenditures
          of the
          Project
     (b)  under Part B    1,300,000
          (3) (i) of
          the Project
(4)  Technical assistance 4,100,000     100% of foreign
     under Part B (other                expenditures and
     than Part B (3) (i))               90% of local
     of the Project                     expenditures
(5)  Unallocated                        8,700,000
          TOTAL                         100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country  other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  9
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals,  in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000, may 
be made in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3, and 4 for Part A of the Project only on 
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1988;
(b)
expenditures incurred in the carrying out of an Investment, unless such 
Investment is an Eligible Investment;
(c)
expenditures under Categories (2) and (3) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
incurred in each of the Departamentos, unless the Borrower has furnished evidence,  
satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the Borrower and the respective Departamento 
and its FER have entered into a valid and binding Departmental Agreement, satisfactory 
to the Bank, covering the Eligible Investments under Parts A (1), (2) and (4) of the 
Project for which the disbursement request is made;
(d)
expenditures under Category (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement incurred 
in each of the Departamentos, unless the Borrower has furnished evidence, satisfactory 
to the Bank, showing that the Borrower and the respective Departamento and its FER 
have entered into a valid and binding Supplemental Departmental Agreement, 
satisfactory to the Bank, covering the Eligible Investments under Part A (3) of the 
Project for which the disbursement request is made; and
(e)
expenditures incurred in each of the Municipalities unless the Borrower 
has furnished, in addition to the evidence referred to in paragraph (d) above, 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank showing that the respective Departamento and its FER 
have entered into a valid and binding Municipal Agreement with such municipality 
covering the Eligible Investment for which the disbursement request is made.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the execution of the Program and its objectives are to 
strengthen resource management and mobilization in the education sector, and to raise 
the quality of primary education while expanding access to all school-aged children 
through (1) limiting the appointment of new teachers ant strengthening incentives to 
relocate excess teachers, mainly to rural areas and
raising the share of non-personnel inputs in recurrent expenditures; (2) introducing a 
new student promotion policy to reduce repetition, dropout and average costs per 
graduate; (3) raising the level of investment: for primary education, directing the 
largest share to schools in disadvantaged (mainly rural) areas; and (4) raising 
departmental and municipal contributions to the financing of civil works in the sub 
sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Execution of Eligible Investments including:
(1)
Acquisition and utilization of student and teacher materials and school 
libraries for about 4,000 rural schools, and provision of in-service teacher training 
for about 20,000 rural teachers to complete the broad introduction of an improved 
rural curriculum, and replacement of educational materials in about 25,000 rural 
schools.
(2)
Acquisition and utilization of basic school furniture for about 10,700 rural 
schools and for about 2,100 urban schools primarily to improve equality of access.
(3)
Construction of classrooms in about 3,600 rural schools and upgrading of 
Page  10
classrooms in about 700 rural schools.
(4)
Provision of about 3.3 million textbooks, in-service training for about 6,500 
teachers and
materials for about 30,000 classrooms. 
Part B:
Provision of technical assistance and training and acquisition and utilization 
of materials to:
(1)
complete an improved information system and strengthen medium-term planning and 
policy monitoring for education;
(2)
develop budgeting and financial management skills within the MEN system;
 
(3)
improve technical support capacity at  the central and regional levels of the 
MEN,  and program planning and implementation capabilities at local levels by means of 
(i) training and (ii) technical assistance;
(4)
carry out studies to prepare future investment projects and assess alternatives 
for the future financing and development of higher education; and
(5)
(a) develop a system to assess student achievement in primary education,  (b)  
extend rural
basic education beyond the primary cycle on a pilot basis, and (c) execute a policy 
study on the future development of secondary education.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1994
through   August 15, 2005
4,165,000.00
 
And on February 15, 2006
4,205,000.00
 
Page  11
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalent determined as of the 
respective dates 
of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for works and contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or less but more than $35,000 or $30,000 equivalent, respectively, may be 
procured on the basis of competitive bidding procedures, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the 
contracts for works and goods so awarded, shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the 
equivalent of $30,000,000 and $25,000,000, respectively, or such other amount as shall 
Page  12
be agreed upon by the Bank and the Borrower.
2.
Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $35,000 or less and 
contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less and in the 
aggregate not exceeding the equivalent of $20,000,000 for works and the equivalent of 
$10,000,000 for goods may be procured in accordance with local procurement procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Without limitation upon the provisions of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part A of this 
Schedule:
(1)
No requirement of local agents for foreign bidders shall be made.
 
(2)
No prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required.
 
(3)
No provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied.
 
(4)
Bids for goods shall be evaluated on a C.I.F. basis.
 
(5)
Freight costs quoted freely by each bidder shall be used for the purpose of bid 
evaluation. 
(6)
Awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidder.
 
Provided,  however,  that the provisions of paragraph (6) above shall apply to all 
contracts for works and goods to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more and to the first two contracts for works and for goods awarded in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in Parts A and C of this Schedule regardless 
of their amount, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required  to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  13
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to ten 
million dollars ($10,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithtrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  14
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request;
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to 
the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
