Z-A/Cè)- V'
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. 12200-VE
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
VENEZUUA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
OCTOBEIL 13, 1993
M ICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12200 VE
Type: SAR
Human Resources Division
Country Departmnt I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office
Ts documet has a resWlted d   _   and may be and by    I    nly in the peromanc of
their offiec  dies its contenl t may no othe     be di wosed  Whout ld anBk auhodia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 8, 1993)
Ciwrent Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
US$1.00 = Bs 95.85
US$1 million = Bs 95.85 million
US$10,433 = Bs 1 million
EISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
October 1 - July 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CENAMEC                 National Center for Teaching Math and Science
Centro Nacional para la Ensefianza de la Matematica y la Ciencia
CNU                     National Council of Universities
Consejo Nacional de Universidades
COPRE                   Presidential Commission for the Reform of the State
Comisi6n Presidencial para la Reforma del Estado
CORDIPLAN               Ministry of Coordination and Planning
Ministerio de Coordinaci6n y Planificaci6n
FEDE                     Foundation for School Maintenance and Equipment
FONVIS                  Venezuelan Fund for Social Development
Fondo Venezolano de Inversi6n Social
FUNDALECTURA            Foundation for the Promotion of Reading
GOV                     Government of Venezuela
IBRD)                    International Bank for Reconstruction and Deve.lopment
IDB                     Inter-American Development Bank
IEA                     International Association for the Evaluation of Educational
Achievement
INCE                    National Institute for Educational Cooperation
Instituto Nacional para Cooperaci6n Educativa
IPASME                  Welfare Institution for the Ministry of Education Personnel
Instituto de Previsi6n y Asistencia Social para el Personal del
Ministerio de Educaci6n
MINDUR                  Ministry of Urban Development
Ministerio de Desarrollo Urbano
MOE                     Ministry of Education
OPSU                    University Sector Planning Office
Oficina de Planificaci6n del Sector Universitario
PCU                     Project Coordination Unit
SES                      State Education Secretariat
UPEL                     National Pedagogical University
Universidad Pedagogica El Libertador
ZE                      Educational Zones
Zonas Educativas



-1~ZUBL& '                   -     OFfiCUAL Wu OELY
BAICEUCATION BQM
PagcBt40
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...................... iv
1. BACKGROUND,ISSUES ANDOSTRATEGY  I...                ... '
-- -A. -Bacgrun..... *. . . **                         .. .. .. . ,.  f
B. TheEducaFio  Sector                                           3
C. Gx rment Strgy yinEducation ........                         II
D. BankRoleand Strawt    ...............                        12
E. Lessons Learned ......................                       13
2. THIEPROJECT ................ ........*....... .. 15
A. Proet   jeov s ......  0..so.                                1  .   .   S
B. ProjectComponents   3....                                    16
C. ProjectDesription  ....                          3           17
3.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEM[ENS  ............................ 29
A. ProjectCost .......... .                              .... 29
B. FinancingPHan  ...3... ..          ......                    31
C. ReurmtCosts Arising from the Prote ............. 31
D. ProjectSustinabiity .................               S.  **  32
E. Prmurement 3...........................    32
F. Dibsmnt...   35
G. Accounting and Auditing ........                             36
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ...3.33 37
A. StatusofPrepa on                               .             37
B. Pojecdt3                          3 333   37
C. PjectMonitoig andEvatumt....... 6'0. 0.0. 39
Thi tuut Is baud a doB kdhs o at Mu idfiBati m  imiua  FAlsas 19too iw prpud misaM. fs MW I9
ad* 1992 raqmiv4 a upaslar is Navabs 1992 an  aepI misai  huJ4 159 mgia
rf Mm&. BNi Oaft (Msaim Le  ldo,w P w_a, Sand C*im. lIm   Wdl, SO  Vamih
"ATM, Lisi Lan& OM1', laS. &fwr 08 lD M  Rabha Law (LDWA ad Mama mm  M.I'  auga kW
Zoom a=d Math L. TWu1 (OmwbnWia. Mmmli Lad&Wa (OM1 ad IIiAih Masgis (BAPI muSe a PMi
Odw a A& Comim cv_., m w*
Tf  doum  hat h    ms cdt  dbuton and May be ud by muepimo 0l ins 1w tb
of ,,i ,    ,, du,   Its cont_s  ow  othewl  be diclud wton Wad Bank sJn.



5. PROJECT BENEFrrS AND RISKS  ....................... . . 40
A. PrQjectBenefits .4................ .......   40
B. Project Risk  ........................ *                 40
C. Environmental Impact ........................ 41
-6. AGREEMEN S REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                         41
Annexi:       Bai .Educaton Indiators ............... 44
Annex 2:      Description  and  Organizationa
Charts of the Mnistry of
Education, its Regional Offices, the
State Education Secretariats, and
the Municipal Schools  ................. 55
Annex 3:      Education Sector Budget and Fnance   ......   57
Annex 4:      Production   and   Supply  of
ducational Materials for Basic
Education in Venezuela ................. 61
Annex 5:      Implementation Stategy for the
Teacher Training Component   C.       ... 65
Annex 6:      Student Assessment Experiences
and Implementation StratW  for the
Component   .................... ... 68
Annex 7:      Strategy for Project Implementation..    .       71
Annex 8:      Cost Tables  ....... ...          ......... 76
Annex 9:      Monitoring Indicators .................. 83
Annex 10:      Documents in Project Files ............... 85
LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS DN MAIN REPORT
Table 1.1: Comparative Social Indicators in Selected Latin American
and Carbbean Countries   ...     .     ...      ........  2
Table 1.2: Enrollments by Level and Type of School (1990-1991) ....  4
Table 1.3: Distribution of Schools by Level (1988-1989) .........   5
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ..........    30
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure. .  30
Table 3.3: Financing Plan   ... ... ...    .............. . 31
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements     ...       ........... 33
Table 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan  ........... 35
Table 3.6: Esidmated IRD Disbursement ................... 36
MAP IBRD No. 22154



-ii -
1MPROVING QUALrTY OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet
DATA            YEAR
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
-1 ..    .  putonEstimate (million)                   19.8           1991
2. Area ('000 Square Kilometers)-                     912            1990
3. GNP per Capita (US$)                              2,730           1991
4. GNP plc Average Annual Growt. Rate (%)             -1.0        1965-89
5. Income Share of Poorest 2C% (%)                     4.7           1987
B. DEMOGRAPHC DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate (Per 1000)                       30.4            1991
2. Cmde Death Rate (Per 1000)                          4.5           1991
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)                2.6        1990-91
4. Total Fertility Rate                                3.7           1991
5. % of Population 0-14 years                         37.3           1990
C. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Adult Illiteracy Rate (%)                          9.5            1989
2. Female Illiteracy Rate (%)                         11.2           1989
3. % of Age Group in
Primary Education                                106            1991
Secondary Education (15-17)                       23            1991
Tertiar Education                                 27            1991
4. % of Cohort Completing Grade 6
Females                                           60            1989
Males                                             67            1989
5. Net Enrollment Rates:
Primary Education                                 85            1990
Secondary Education                               38           1990
Higher Education                                  22           1990
6. Public Education Expenditures:
As % of total Public Spending                     16.9            1991
As % GDP                                     5.6            1991
In per Capita US$                           166.0           1991
SOURCES: World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1990; World Bank,
World Development Report, 1992; and Mission Estimates.



- iv -
BASE EDIUCATINPRJC
- ' - Republicof-Venezuelac
_,  ~~~Ministy of E3ducatio,. Staese FUNDALUCTURA,
CENAMEC, Natonal librauy
A_snt:            US$ 89.4 million equivalent
Imiw              Payable in 15 yea, including a 5-year grace period, at
the Bank standard variable interest rate.
nd Dmdgt:    lThe main goals of the project are to help the Governmmet
of Venezuela raise the level of student achievement,
reduce the incidence of repetiton and dropout, and
increase graduation rates of basic education through
iprovements in the quality of education and
admistative efficiency. Because educaton is moving
toward being decenized, another important objectve
of the project is to help states develop their own capacity
for man g the system efficiently. Toward these ends
the proect woud: (a) mcrease student access to textbooks
and other stional materials; (b) improve teachers'
skills and efectiveness in teacing; (c) improve the
education management capacity of MO and of the State
Educaton Secretaits (SES) and (d) develop MOE's
capacity to coordinate and formulate policies, monitor
student learning and school quality, and identify
bottenecks and problems at the state and local levels in
a timely manner.
The proposed project would consist of four components:
(a) an Inskt,icWal Materials DQpmenI (US$85.3
million) component that would provide for. (i) inaeasing
stdents' access to textbooks and reading materials; (ii)
increasng teachers' access to educational resoes; and
(idi) an interactive madio program for teaching math in the
first t    grades. The project would finance techn
assistanc and the acquisition, production and distributon
of textbooks, workbooks, readig materials, and teachers'
guides, as well as the producdon and broadcastng of
math radio programs.



v 
(b) a Teacher [mining (US$36.2 milion) component that
would consist of; () an in-service teacher training
program  that would promote the effective use of the
instrucdonal materials to be distributed under the project;
() a comprehensive evaluation of pre-service teacher
training to promote the reform of t.. current system of
teacher ttaining; and (idi) the design and testing of
experimental modules for upgrading the knowledge of
teachers in the ares --of language, science, -and,
maftematics, to help develop a permanent state level
-capacity .for in-serviceteacher training.  The prC$eCt
would finance the production of taning materials, the
design of training sminars and workshops, the taining
of teachers, a study of pre-service training systems, and
technical assistance.
(c) an Institutional Development (US$54.3 million)
component to: fl) conduct a management audit of the
sector that would include both the central Ministry of
Education as well as statlevel secretaries of education
and educational zones (Zonas educativas)', and a grant
program to support the implementation of action plans to
implement the recommendation of the management
studies; (ii) support the modernization and
ecntralization of the educational system by improving
the  decision  making, management, planning  and
monitoring capacities of the MOE, and of state education
authorities, in the areas of personnel management,
financial and budgetay control, program management,
policy analysis, and school supervision; Wiii) develop
strong communication linkages between the center and
state  governments thrugh  a  modern  educatonal
management information system; (iv) support a grnt
program for schools to encourage teachers to develop,
produce and disseminate localy-adapted instructional
materials and (v) support the establishment of a moden
student assessment system and its use by principals,
supervisors, administrators and paricularly, policy
makers at the school, municipal, state and central levels.
The project would finance training, technical assistance,
MOB is the prncpl provider of educatina services. Its responsibilities incldbe
(a) setting educationa poies and strategies; (b) definig cmculs; (c) oeseg
ohe quality of semce provided; (d) planing, prograsnning. and budgetn for t
natoal  sools ad (e) hiring, prmoting, tnfeing and negotiaing beefits for
adtionl schoo    he  and pesonne. MOE cari  ou is funtie  tough its
offis at te state lIl, clled Zonas Educaiv. Al at heo state level, State
Edcaio  fg_mr    ane mna adinsrtv s8t acmomtifbleo ft   s
govnors.hir finctons include manag atef  hols and hiring, prmong,
and trsi sft persne a well a negoig their beefits



-vi
dissemination and communication canpaigs, computer
hardware and software, speci grant ftnds, and studies.
(d) a Studies (US$3.0 million) component to suppo:t (i)
tie completion of a series of studies of school
effectiveness and educational finance both in-secondary
and primary education; and (0i) the identification and
design of activities to -improve the quality of education
and expand coverage at tie sedary level. The project
will finance techicalassistance and prqaration and
dissemination of studies.
Beknfs:           The main benefits of the project would be improvements
in the internal efficiency of basic education and the
management efficiency of both the MOE and state
secretariats of education. Improved internal efficiency
would in turn result in: (i) increased graduation rates; (i)
reduced resource wastage from reduction of retition
and dropout; and (iii) improvements in leaning
achievemenl of primary students. Improved management
efficiency would result in: (i) improvements in the
MOE's capacity to !')rmulate policies that respond to
local needs, to monitor school quality, and to assist state
level education authorities in impwaving the efficiency of
their systems; and (ii) improvement in the states' capacity
to allocate resources according to well defined policy
o*jectives and priorities, and to implement timely
responses to specific schools' demands.
Of Bebm:        Not aplicable
Poverq  y :.  Program of Targeted Interventions. Teaching mateials
would be provided to rural and urban low-income
schools.



-vii -
(US$ Million)          % Total
IAcal    Foreign    Tol    Base osts
1.          alMters        41.6      30.0       71.6         46
2. TeacheTainng            31.4       0.1       31.5         20
3. Institutionl Development   41.5    7.6       49.1         32
4.StudiesdSeminas            2.3     -0.7                     - 3.0  2
Physical Contngencies      6.1       3.5        9.7          6
Pice Contingencies        10.5       3.5       14.0          9
Total PROJECT COSTS       133.4      45.5       178.9       115
EFinancing Plan
US$ Mllion
Local     Foreign      Total
1. Government          89.5         0.0        89.5
2. Proposed IBRD       43.9        45.5        89.4
n                     _   __           __
Total          133.4        45.5       178.9
Ebat  M 
Total Costs, Including Contingencies
(US$ million)
Bank Fscal     FY94 FY95  FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
year
Annual           9.3  18.2   20.8  21.2  14.7   5.2
Cumulative       9.3  27.5   48.3  69.5  84.2  89.4



IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STtATEGY
A. Badcgund
1.1  Fueled by its abundant petroleum reserves, Veua's soety and
economy underwent rapid transformation during  the post-war pPeriod.
Popuation increased from 4.2 million in 1945 to 16.7 million in 1988 and the
ra polaon rose         35 percet to 87 percent of the total, Income per
capita also rose, tripling rom aboit US$1,000 to o   US$3,200. Key social
indicators such as illiteracy and infant mortality rate  O  improved. The
Iliutacy rate diminished from 49% in 1950 to 10% in 1988, and ifnt
mortality declined from 65 per thousand in 1965 to 41 per thousand in 1988.
1.2  These years of appnt prosperity, however, were marked by
unsusainable and inadequate growth pattems. Venezuea's non-petroleum based
seos developed behind high protective tariffs and retictions on competition,
which left thiem ill-equipped to compete externally or to udlize resources
efficiently. To prop up inefficient enterprises, the government ran a fiscal
deficit of over 9 percent of GNP in 1988, reserves were depleted and, despite
the imposition of extensive price controls, Venezuela encountered the highest
inflation (80 percent) in its post-war history.
1.3  Despite prgress in some social areas, Venezuela has been unable to
adequately address the problems of poverty. Social indicators in Venezuela are
lower than what would be expected for a country at its level of per capita
income (US$3,230 in 1988 and US$2,450 in 1989). Although infant mortality
rates have fallen substantially since 1965, they still remain double that of
Jamaica and Costa Rica, which have an income per capita around half that of
Venezuela. Venezuela's child death rate (41 per 100,000) is also relatively high
when compared to other middle-income countries. Similarly, life expectancy
(70 years), access to health services (73 percent of the population), and net
secondary-school enrollment (46 percent) are comparatively low with respect to
other middle-income countries. (See Table 1.1)
1.4 Furthermore, the incidence and severity of poverty has increased
significantly in the recent past. n 1982-83, it was estimated that about 33
percent of households were ling in poverty (defined as a total family income
of ss than twice the cost of the minimum food basket). By 1989, this figure
had increased to 54 percent of households and within this popuon, the
severity of poverty worsened. The percentage of poor households classified as
living in "exteme poverty" (defined as unable to meet the cost of the minimum
food req ment) incre  d to 40 percent of poor households from about one-
third of poor households in 0982.



-2 -
Table 1.1: Compaative Socil ldicators In Selected Latin Ame_an and Cadbbean
Countdes
Counwi    PU Capita      t      Child     U_        Deat    A__s   Totl    $econday    Aul
GOP     Moaly    Deth    saatay    lue to    to    FeúiUty    9choew    lUtensay
SS)       RAt    RIbt (eer    (ea)    Pue   Helth   Rat   E1mlaus   Rato (I)
. .198    (w 1000)  100,000)            (fer    (%)                (O
_                                 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00,00X0I
-Venob    -    3170        36       41        70.1      82       73      3.8         46     13.1
A- -uthn      2640        32        36        70.6     -2.0     90             :    74      6.V-
uguy          2470        27        30        71.1     NA.   N.A.       2.4         71       4.6
Pauama         2240t      23        27        72.1      6.7     80      3.1-      59    -11.8
--          -         -          -~~~~~~~~~~~~.   -S --D
costa Rica    1760        18        21        73.7      3.6   94.8      3.2         42       6.4
Clule          1510       20        23        71.5      4.4   94.7      2.7         70       5.6
Jamalc        1080       18        20        73.9     NA.   N.A.       2.6         58      3.9
Note: NA. meo  ml availbbe. AM data are most ent estmat (198849).   oaed with an asterisk a* fom th UNBSCO
Sdcal Yeaook, 1989. Deah due to prses an for infat under I yer of aie. Ac  to bhalth reaas to the percert of de,
popuaion which an iamb loa bealh serices by usa _causof enVorl in so mas dtha   owe r. Toa frility sae res to
th aveag  ube of *ildn bom alive toa woman du4g hor liftm it she ver to pm thrxughb oheidaug yeam oorfoemgto
th ag -  .flc ftity aes of agv year.
Source: 2he Wodd5aNr* (1901). Vea*mea Pw%ver Study. From G.senlize &rballr so Ta,ete ?ivgrnsw.
1.5 Faced with such a deteriorating social environment and a destablized
economic situation, the new Government in 1989 confronted a major challenge -
- that of undertaing important economic and social adjustments while protecting
the most vulnerable social groups. It adopted a far-reaching structurd reform
program and tight monetary and fiscal policies to stabilize tte economy, which
have been supported by the Ba's Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3091)
and Trade Policy Loan (loan No. 3092) to Venezuela. Key components of the
program are: (a) a unified and market-determined exchange rate regime; (b) a
reduction of price controls; (c) a deregulation of the financial system; (d) a
reform of fiscal policies; (e) restructuring and privatization of public enterprises;
and (f) a shift from generalized subsidies to directly targeted and well-integrated
social programs. Venezuela (supported by a Bank-funded Social Development
Project) also undertook in 1990 a plan to help shield the poorer segments of
Venezuelan society from excessive adverse effects of the reform effort and to
overcome past deficiencies in targeting, coverage, and adminisation of the
social soc.
1.6 By early 1992, the economy has showed signs of significant structural
adjustment and a greatly stabilized monetary, fiscal and external situation.
Nevertheless, while the Government's program has focused heavily on the
policy framework for stimulting private sector investment and productivity
gowth, the role of the education system in supplying the human capital equired
for fiter economic gowth and successul competition in global markets has
been neglected. In addition, the Government's efforu to alleviat Venezuela's
serious poverty problem  through income tmnsfer progams and other special
programs to improve primary health care, day care and pre-school services for
low income fmilies do not constitute a complete strategy for long-term poverty



W 3<
reduction. Poverty reduction also requires increased investments in the human
capital of the poor, in order to icrase tir productivity and enable them to
gerate more income from teir principal asset - their labor. This proposed
project wil build on govemment strategies for economic competitieness and
povety reducton by si'pporting improvements in the quality of Venezuelan
basic education.
B. The Education Sector
1.7 Overview. Formal education in Venezuela begins with one year of
preschool education at a&e 5, which is in theory compulsory, although universal
access to this educational level is far from being reahed. In Xh~ 19-8s, babic
education was extended from a six grade system to a nine-year compulsory cycle
for children 6 to 14 years old. Secondary education (educacidn media) is
unusually short in Venezuela; it is mainly a two or three year program, provided
to students 15 to 17 years old who have completed basic education. Educacidn
media is divided into two tracks: (a) a humanities/science curiculum that
eaes students for higher education (media diversifIcada); and (b) a
vocational currculum to prepare students for work immediatly after graduation
(media profeslonal). Higher education consists of undergraduate programs
(generally five years beginning at age 17) and graduate programs. Special
education programs, of which few exist, are designed for children 6 to 14 years
old that are either gifted or have learning disabilities. Adult education programs,
which are also limited, are directed to adults 15 years or older who want to
learn to read and write or who need to complete basic or secondary education.
1.8  The system as a whole achieved a massive expansion between the 1960s
and the 1980s and, as a consequence, the educational attainment of the labor
force has improved significantly over the past two decades. Today, 97 percent
of children have access to basic education and almost half of the 5 year old
population attend pre-school. Higher education institutions enroll an estimated
27 percent of 18-22 year olds, which is relatively high compared to ote Latin
American countries. Repetition rates in prmary school, however, are high
(about 30% of those enrolled in basic education are repeaters). Dropout rates,
particularly after the sixth grade, are also high. As a result, enrollment rates at
the secondary school level wades 10-12) are very low by Latin American
sandards (only 23% of 15-17 year-olds are enrolled).
1.9  Primary educadon in Venezuela, however, compares favorably with ote
Lair. American countries in several respects. First, access to the pnmary lev el
is excellent. Second, teachers are relatively well-educated (80% are university
gaduates) and ird, school overcrowding is limited. Between 1980 and 1990,
the average class size fell from 33.6 to 26.7, which is one of the lowest ratios
in Latin America.
1.10 Although spending on education as a share of the budget and as a share
of GDP is relatively high, one of the principal issues confronting the Venezuelan
education system is inefficient spending. Although the education sector
constitutes by far the largest share of public social spending in Venezuela (an



-4-
avage of about five percent of GDP from  1973 to 1985), it suffers from
inequitable and ineffective allocation of funds within and between the different
levels of education. More specificatly, salient problems are the high share of
the budget going for overhead and administration, rather than direct classroom
expenditures, and the imbalance between salary and non-salary expndir.
These imbalances have contributed to a deterioration of the quality of education
which in turn has led to high cost per graduate.
1.11  Organization and A     tration  of the Sector. The Venezuela
education system is highly centralized. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is the
princip  provder of educational services. It operates 39 percent of the total
preschool, basic and secondary schools in the country in what is called the
national school system. Enrollment in the national system accounts for 69
percent of public enrollments and 59 percent of total enrollment. State
governments administer about 30 percent of schools, with 27 percent of public
and 23 percent of total enrollments. Municipal schools account for about 3
percent of public and 2 percent of total enrollments, exclusively at the pre-
school and primary levels. The private sector is relatively small, accounting for
17 percent of schools and about 15 percent of enrollments. (See Table 1.2 and
1.3). Private enrollments, however, are growing faster than public enrollments.
Table 1.2: Enrolments by Level and Type of School (1990-191)
PreSchool   %    Basde    %   Seoondary   %      Total    %
Tol            634,812  100  4,052,947  100    281,419  100   4,90,178   100
Public         537,634  84.7  3,49S,806  863    208,552  74.1  4,241,992  85.4
National       422,253  66.5  2,304,098  56.8    206,864  73.5  2,933,215  59.0
State          85,502  13.5  1,059,835  26.3   1,688  0.6  1,147,025  23.1
M uVIcipal      8,457  1.3   109,987  2.7 _____               118,414   2.4
Autonomous     21,422  3.4   21,886  0.5 OS                    43,308   0.9
Prvate          97,178 15.3   SS7,141  13.7    72,W   25.9     7,186  14.6
Source: World Bank 7993) Venaela 200: Educadon for CGowth a  ocial Eq*.
1.12 The Central or National Level. In addition to direct administrion of
its network of schools, the Ministry is responsible for: (a) setting educational
policies and strategies; (b)defining curriculum and other norns; (c) overseeing
the quality of educational services provided by the public and private setors;
and (d) planning, programming, and budgeting of the sector.
1.13 MOE, with over 200,000 en,?loyees, carjies out its legally mandated
funcdons through its: (a) central units; (b) 23 departnents, one in each state,
called Zonas Edwcadvas (ZE); and (c) 6 autonomous institutions. These
institutions are: (i) the National Library; (i) the National Center for the
Teaching of Science (CENAMEC); (iii) the Foundation for School Maintance
and Equipment (FEDE); (iv) the Welfare Institution for the Ministry of
Education personnel (IPASM; (v) the National Institute for Educational
Cooperaon (INCE) which is responsible for vocational taining; and (vi) the
Foundati  for the Development of Special Education.



-5-
Table 1.3: DitribtIont of Scbools by Levld (19889
-                                                         -  m  '
TMp        Pre.uboo    %    Daise    %    Secodar           - TOtal
National       3.501  41.0   4,879  32.6       723    55.0   9,103      38.6
State           999  13.7   5,813  38.9         -             6,813     28.9
MunicIp         129 -          398   2.7                       5 -  S27  2.2
Autonomous      147   2.0      52   0.4         10     0.1    209       0.9
Combin          954  13.1   1,97   13.2            .    -    2,931      12.4
-  Private     1,571  21.4   1,829  12.2       581    44.9   3,9j1  16.9
TotaL          7,301  100.0  14,948  100.0i   1,314   100.0  23,S013   100..
T. v* -                   - - 
Notes, Autonomous schools are schools established and sustained by paastal instutions. Combined
schools ae schools that am partaly suppord by fth National Goverment.
1.14 Organizationally, the MOE is divided into one Genea  Subsecrtr
with five General Directorates: (i) Basic and Secondary Education; 0i) Higher
Education; (iii) Special Programs; (iv) Administrative Services; and (v)
Labor/Union Affairs. In addition, there are eight senior staff supportng areas
reporting directly to the Minister: (1) Teacher Training; (ii) Social Benefits; (ii)
Planning and Programming; (iv) Personnel; (v) Legal Affairs; (vi) Comptroller;
(vii) Public Relations; and (vii) Inteanational Relations. The Miistry also
transfers funds to a number of legally autonomous decentralized agencies within
the education sector, most notably to the University Sector Planning Office
(OPSU), secretariat for the Nationa Council of Universities (CNU), and to
agencies such as the Fundacidn Gran Mariscal de Ayacucho, which funds
student loans and scholarships in areas of high government priority. MOE also
prmvides subsidies to private schools operating in vew-income neighborhoods.
1.15 Although most of the budgeted funds for the national school system go
through the MOE, the budget for new school construction is under the Ministry
of Urban Development (MINDUR), which is responsible for executing new
works. In theory, MINDUR caries out school constuction in line with MOE
planning, but in practice coordination among MOE, FEDE, and MINDUR has
been poor. School construction has often been guided by political criteria,
rather than objective need or sectoral priorities. MOE directly executes about
50 percent of the total education budget, higher education institutions about 30
percent, the autonomous institutions (FEDE, INCE, etc.) roughly 10 percent,
and MINDUR around 3.5 percent.
1.16 Operations and financing of the national system are highly centralized
withn MOE. Preschool, basic, secondary, special, and adult education services
are programmed and budgeted by MOE. Resources for the schools are
coordinated and allocated through the 23 Zonas Eucavas (ZE) , which are
accountable to MOE through the General Subsecreatariat, and are located in: (a)
each State; (b) the federal capital; and (c) the territories of Delta Amacuro and
Amazonas. They are in charge of: (i) operating the nationaly funded public
preschool, basic and secondary school system in their respective region; and (ii)
providing the pedagogical supervsion required by the Education Organic Law.
However, the ZEs are largely paper processing offices between MOE in Caracas



and the public school sysem, lacking real of autonomy from the MOE for local
decision makng responsibilites, and playing no meaningful role in school
supevsion or quality control. In theory, pedagogical suprviion in the
natonal system  s the responsibility of the Educational Districts (Dutrltos
FAdivos), which are a very weak intermediate structure between the ZEs and
schools. In- practice, however, the Distritos Educadws lack the technical
capacity, instruments, and authority to evaluate school performance or even to
prevent or conrect disciplinary problems and abuses, such as absenteeism among
school personnel. The L)itos FAwc s are accountabe to the ZEs..
1I7 State and MunicipAl Lvels.  State schools are operated by State
Education Directorates, which are relatively small administrative structures
accountable to the state governors. State govemments have to comply with the
legal framework established by the National Consdtution and the Organic
Education Law regulating the curriculum, calendar, and the organization of
basic and secondary education. State authorities, however, have the autonomy
to: (a) hire, promote, transfer, and fire personnel assigned to their state
educational systems and (b) negotiate slaries and fringe benefits of aU their
teaching and non-teaching personnel with their respective unions.
1.18 Expenditures and lnance. Total public spending on education by
MOE, other central institutions and state governments in Venezuela has
fluctuted over the last eight years. It fell by 16 percent in real terms from the
mid-1980s to 1989, but increased sharply in 1990 and 1991 to more than equal
the 1984 level of spending in real terms. In 1991, education spending reached
its highest share of GDP in at least a decade (5.7 percent) and a similarly high
share of total public spending (24 percent). The large increase in education
spending from 1990 to 1991 was pardcularly impressive given the stagnation in
oveal public spending in 1991.
1.19 Unfortunately, the 1991 spending level is unlikely to be sustained. A
significant part of the increase was associated with the negotiation of a new
union contract compensating for salry erosion in earlier years. Incremental pay
budgeted to support this contract alone accounted for 13 percent of MOE's 1991
budget. Moreover, most of the growth of education spending since 1990 has
been associated with non-educational progamms such as the Beca Alimentaria
(food grant), Bono Lacteo (milk voucher), Bono de Arroz (rice voucher) and
Bulto Escolar (school uniform), in addition to general overhead and
administrative costs, neither of which directy contributes to educational quality.
If social programs are excluded from the budget, the real value of education
spending in 1991 was only slightly above the 1984 level.
1.20 Furthemore, of all educational levels, higher education received a greater
share of the total MOE budget than any other level, ranging from 31 to 41
percent (excluding spending on otier prograns). In contast, basic education
(with two-thirds of total public enrollments) averaged just 17-27 percent of the
budget excludig socal programs.  Pre-sehool with about 13 percent of
enllments, accounted for about 3-4 percent of the total budget. Secondary
education (about 6 percent of enrollments), represented aoximaty 5 percent;



7 -
and special education, adult educaton and other special programs were one
pement or less of total MOE spending. If not only spending on social programs
but also spending on central administrtion and other programs (i.e. special
education, vocadonal and adult education) is excluded, spending on higher
education  presnts over half of education program spending in Venezuela,
even though it only accounts for 11 percent of enrollments. - Venezuela, in
short, remains well behind other Latin American cntries in terms of the
priority given to basic and secondary education finacing relative to higher
education.
1.21 Decentralzation of Education. On December 1989, govemors and
mayors wer-directly elected for the first time in: the 30 years of Venezuelan
democrcy. This change in government pattems provided the impetus for
Congress to pass new meares to: (a), initiate the d alizon of public
services, including education; and (b) increase the share of central government
revenues transferred to the states. Under the Decentralizadon and Transfer Law
enacted in January 1990, govenors are legally empowered to request the
transfer of personnel, budgetary resources and physical assets from the centnl
govremment, in order to assume responsibility for public senrices. For
education, the transfer is to be accomplished through legal agreements approved
by the Venezuelan Senate and state legislatures, once a transfer model and an
implementation strategy has been agreed upon.
1.22 For education, the Law and its accompanying Reglamno No.] specify
that a state must appoint a bilateral technical commission to define a timetable
and strategy for the transfer process, draft the legal agreements, and co-manage
(during the transition period) the senrices being transfewred. In order to enable
states to finance incased responsibilities at the local level, the Decrzatiaon
Law mandated an increase in central government transfers to the states of one
prcent of ordinary revenues per year for the next five years. ITat is, the
current stuado (transfer) of 15 percent of ordinay revenues in 1989 will be
increased to 20 percent by 1995, representing a 30 percent increase in state
revenues by 1995. In addition, the law gmnted state governments limited
authorty to mobilize local tax revenues.
1.23 By September 1992, hee states - Falcon, Aragua and Monagas- had
requested the transfer of pre-school, primary and secondary education services,
and seven more states (Barinas, Bolivar, Meida, Miranda, Sucre, Trujilo and
Zulia) were expected to follow soon. However, to date, no legal agments for
the transfer of education services to the first three states have been finalized.
1.24 Although no model of transfer has thus far been agreed upon, a proposal
developed by the Presidential Commission for the Reform of the State (COPRE)
is being discussed. COPRE favors a direct decenton process by which
state governments will manage all the basic and secondary public education, and
will be accountable to their constitunts. Baally, under COPRE's model MOE
reains responsibility for: (a) education policy (curriculum norms, school
calendar, etc.); (b) transfer of revenues; (c) evaluation; and (d) labor terms and
conditions. States would assume responsibility for: (a) contacting and



managig all teaching and non-teaching personnel; (b) budget preparaton and
xpnitueb; (c) school construction and maintenance; and (d) pement of
goods and services.
1.25 Sectdoral soes. The pincipa issues confronting the education sector in
Venzuela are the need to improve: (a) the quality of basic education; 0) the
access, efficiency and quality of secondary education; (c) the efficiency of
Sigher education; (d) the weak and inefficient management of the system; (e) the
inequitable and inefficient allocation of funds; (f) the immint decentalizan;
and (g) the low institutional implementation capacity of MOE.
1.26 Basic -educatlon quality. At the primay school evel, the qity of
public school education is very low. On a recenw international test of reading
ahwevment (lEA's Reading Literacy Study) in which thirty-one countries
partcipated, Venezuean nine-year olds scored fourth to last and Venezuean
thrtn-year olds scored third to last, only above children in Nigeria, Zimbabwe
and Botswana. In both groups, only 5 percent of the Veneuelan students
pef'ormed at or above the international mean. In addition to the interational
reading test results, results of MOE's own 1989 achievement tests showed very
poor academic performance. A lare majority of sixth graders in the public
school system had not mastered skills required for promotion from grade 5 to
6. Oter proxies of quality, such as repetition rates and dropout rates, also
indicate system inefficiency. Venezuela is characterized by high repetition and
low graduation rates (approximately 23% and 47% respectively). As a
consequence, the public school system spends twice the amount of resources to
produce a graduate than what would be necesy in an ideal system with no
rpers or dropouts. It takes students, on average, nine to ten years to
complete five to SiX grades.
1.27 A major overhaul of the prmary school system (extending it from 6 to
9 grades) and a cuiculum reform took place in the mid 1980s. Nondhess,
these reforms did not sufficiently address issues of quality nor were they
accompanied by complementary reforms to ensure more successfil achievement
of reform goals. The reforms failed to provide primary school facility
expansion, new equipment and instructional materils, and retaining of teachers
for the new curriculum. The disregard for facility expansion has created a
physical split beween grades 1-6 and grades 7-9. Since most primary schools
do not have the capacity to accommodate students from grade one to nine, many
students are forced to transfer to another school after completing grade six.
This physical split, in tum, has also created pedagogical and management splits.
Grades seven to nine are operated without continuity because they are
damistered out of secondary institutions and are under the athority of a
secondary school principal.
1.28 Seconday level access, efficiency and qualt. Inadequate access and
efficiency are seious problems of the Venezuelan secondary education System.
Access is low, restricted to urban areas and, in low income groups, is skewed
in 'favor of males. Total secondary enrollment in 1989 constituted just 5 percent
of tota enrlment in education, although the poplation 15-17 years old



-9
represented over 14 percent of the total school-age populadon (ages 5-14).
Furtemore, the great bulk (96 %) of secondary school enrollment was
concentated in urban areas. Among the pooest 10% of all households in 1989,
male enrollment was 19%  higher than female enrollment, whereas the
enrollment rates for males that were not considered poor were just 3% higher
than those for females.
1.29 Although the internal efficiency of secondary education is higher than for
basic education, the qaity of-educaton is belieed to be-just- as -low. About
75 percent of all secondary students gaduat and 50 percent graduate without
-repetition,-butthe-quality of the -education 4d studets- ieive. is considered
rather low. Although there have been no standardized tests since 1984, sxdt
performance on that test was appaling, pardculay in math and scien
Average scores (out of 100) were in the range of 10 for math, 15 for chemistry,
and 20 for biology and physics. Private school students scored, on average,
twice as high as students in pubLic schools and three times as high in
mathmaics.
1.30 Higher education effclency. The combination of free tertiary level
education with a budgeting system based on incremental funding has resulted in
a higher education system that operates very inefficiently and has little incentive
to change. Although 34% of students enrolled in public universidties attended
private fee-charging secondary schools they pay no fee for attending hier
edcation because these public institutions are leglly not penritted to charge
tuition. The system spends on average 16 years to produce one gaduate, or in
other words, about three times the ideal cost. The low intern  efficiency of
public higher education is a result of a number of ad-hoc policies which have
become genealized. In spite of having a national entrance examination, most
public institution have a defacto open entrance system. They then seek to weed
out students tirough failing them in the first and second year of their studies
At the same time, they do not enforce regulations reqiring failed students to
leave the university. The result is that enrollments are severely inflated and the
Venezuelan cost-per-university-graduate is one of the highest of the region.
Figu  1                                  1.31 Weak and Ineffient
manage_ent. hes quality
Teath-a M_ __ys o atio            and productivity problems of
te MbiIstry d                 ithe national system  at al
_________          levels cannot be blamed on
ISO L_iinadequate  spending.
m                   _Instead, they stem from the
1ao                 .                   __inefficient management of
________________    available human, physical,
and financial resources,
inadequate  management
U  ~      wara.m                 information  systems, and
S   mstructura and oganizaional
problems permeated by the
highly   centralized



- 10-
administion of MOE. Because MOE managers are responsible for managing
a large number of lower level units they are overburdened with routine task and
decisions with very short dme horizons. This situation, together with the lack
of a management information system capable of producing timely, reliable and
relevant information, precludes them from having a more active role in the
design of long term poicies and planng.
1.32 One of the greatest maagement problems is the over-stafg of non-
tewaching personnel and consequendy, the lare amount of resources (27% of the
education budget) that are st on central administraton. While the teaching
mrce has shown a decrease of about one percent per year since 1987, the
number of -orkers and administators within the national financed educational
seto  have increased by 2.7 and 2.9 percent per year respectively. This
deployment of staff is inefficient, mainly due to an imbalance in the manpower
structure with an excess number of non-service delivery personnel (i.e. worke
and administrors). The ratio of teachers to administrators and workers in the
nationally-financed education system is estimated at an extreme low of a litde
over 2:1.
1.33 Inequitable  and  tg    2_
Inefficent  allocation  of
funds. Resource allocation is                         I
heavily skewed towards the
financing of higher education
with approximately 40% of
the education budget for
higher educadon.    Per-       ________-.
student  spending  at the             ________
pimary and secondary level
is, respetvely, eight and .  _
four times lower than per-
student spending  at the       --_
higher level. (See Figure 2)
Furthermore, although most I_______
university students are
enrolled in tuition-free public universities, only 30% of these students come
from low-income families. In other words, public financing of higher education
results in relatively large subsidies to students from upper- and middle-class
failies. The chances of those in the two highest income groups of attending
public or private higher education are about 20 times greater than those in the
two lowest income groups.
1.34 Because both MOE and the states spend a high (27 to 31 percent) share
of their total education spending on central administration (i.e. not at the school
or classroom level) and salaries, there are few financial resources left for
spending on instructional materials. During the last decade the spending for
peonnel varied between 80 to 90 percent In 1992 only 5 percent of the
budget for basic education was allocated for spending on school infre
instrucdonal mateials and other non-salay items. Given the larg share of non-



- 11 -
salary expenditures that goes toward rehabilitation of physical infrstructure, less
than one percent of th,e budget was allocated to instructonal materials. As a
consequence, the majority (66 percent) of students attending primary schools
lack textbooks. Less than one percent of the books available in schools ae
finmced by MOE.
1.35 1mmnhent d      tion Although there has been pressure frm some
states to take over school management, the MOE has not yet f,lly addressed a
host of major issues related: to decentralization.   efining a model for the
transfer of authority from MOE to the states, designing an implementation
,,,.,trategy Andanalyzing in detail the.costof dentralizing.the.systm and.the
capacityof each state to adm,inister public state schools are all issues that remain
unresolved. The decentraliation proposal needs to be more closely evaluated
and reviewed in order to prevent certain pitfalls, such as: (a) having school
quality depend upon local financing when there exist significant variations in per
capita income across states, and (b) insufficient accountability of schools to
parents and communities.
1.36 Low Insttutional impltion capacity. Many reforms in the past
(such as the change from a six-grade to a nine-grade basic education system)
have been introduced without clear consideration being given to all aspects of
progrm development. They have been characterized by excessive emphasis on
diagnosis, limited attention to defining goals, objectives and policy formulation,
and litde or no emphasis on implementation and impact evaluation. The lack of
attention to these issues, particularly implementation, has caused central
authorties to lose credibility and in turn, teachers and school principals have
lost motivation. In short, despite its resources, the MOE lacks the institutional
capaclity to effectively translate educational policies and strategies into concrete
programmatic actions, to target resources to deprived schools, and to monitor
and evaluate student, school, and system performance.
C. Government Strategy In Education
1.37 The Government's policy statement for the education sector has been
recently summarized in the educational section of the Social Investment Program
(Megaproyecto SoiaI). According to this program, the govemment has three
major educational objectives: (i) to improve educational quality; (ii) to improve
the educational system's management capacity; and (iii) to upgrade school
physical facilities in order to raise the quality of the services provided by the
public educational system.
1.38 In order to improve educational quality, the Government plans to: (a)
develop a permanent teacher training system; (b) train 2,850 new pre-school
teachers and provide refresher training to 23,250 certified teachers; (c) intoduce
new pedagogical techniques; (d) provide adequate instruional materials; (e)
reform the curriculum; and (f) establish escuelas integrales (mtegrated schools).
Escueks Integraks are school programs aimed at promoting an integrated
approach to improving the quality of education for the lowest socio-economic
strata of Venezuelan society. The major components of this innovative program



. 12-
are: (i) an extended day program with enrichment activities such as sports, art,
and music directed mostly at children in preschool through grade 6; (ii)
provision of basic nutrition through school breakfast and lunch progrmms; Qii)
incresed availability of classroom materials such as textbooks, readers and
materials for science experiments and utilizaton of appropriate education
technologies such as overhead projectors, TV/VCRs and computers; (iv)
expansion and improvement of school buildings, including the addition of
kdtchen facilities to prepare student meals; (v) supply of new student desks and
chkirs; (vi) on-going program of staff development and support to promote an
active style of teaching/leaming designed to enhance basic sldlls, problem
1solvt,- alyat -thinking --and -e -imentaton, (vi)  edve  student
assment and teacher evaluation; (viii) active community partcipation in
school programs and adult education classes; (ix) implementation of
psychological and social work services for children with learning or emotional
difficulties; and (x) provision of basic medical services such as immunizaion
and dental care. The Ministry of Education approved Bs.59 million in 1992 to
establish 59 Escuelas Integrales.
1.39 In order to improve the educational system's management capacity and
upgrade school physical facilities, the Government is prepared to: (a) introduce
an eficient and effective planning, evaluation, and management system; (b)
strengthen MOE's programs to modernize, deconcentrate, and decentralize the
aministration and delivery of education services; (c) build 2,390 pre-school
classrooms that will benefit 112,000 children; (d) improve, expand and equip
12,000 basic education schools and institutionalize permanent maintenance
programs; (e) build and equip 500 escuelas integrales; (f) build 2500 school
cafeterias; and (g) renovate a series of higher education institutes, colleges and
universities.
1.40 This plan will be financed by national resources furnished by the
privazaton program and loans from multilateral organizations, such as the
World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. The Government,
through the Ministry of Education and CORDIPLAN, has requested World Bank
assistance in the areas of teacher training for pre-school and basic education,
modemization of the management system, decentraliztion and deconcentration
of MOE, provision of instructional materials, escuelas integrales, and pre-school
claswoom building.
D. Bank Role and Strategy
1.41 The Bank's assistance strategy in Venezuela is to help the Government
achieve the objectives of improving macroeconomic management, strengthing
human rsource and poverty reduction programs, and restructuring and
strengthening public institutions. These involve eliminating distortions in
exchange rates, interest rates and domestic prices, reducing taiffs and
quantitative restrictions, privatizing public enterprises, establishing a sound
fisca balance, improvnng efficiency in the opeton of the public sector, and
caing appropriate targeting mechanisms and systems for delivery of social
progms  to the poor.



- 13 -
1.42 The focus of the Bank's strategy for the social sectors in Venezuela is to
help the Govenment achieve basic objectives of poverty reduction, a well-
tained labor force, improved efficiency and equity in public social service
delivery, a sustainable and stable financing system, and a greater reliance on the
private sector for improving the delivery of services. The proposed project
would directly support this strategy through the improvement of the management
and planing capacity of MOE and educational administrators at the state level,
by shfting resources from central administration to the classroom, and by
Increasing studentsl access to instructional materials. The effect of ths atios
would be both to improve the quality of basic education and to reduce
epettion, thereby leding to- a moe effient system with higher graduation
rates and lower cost per graduate. It would also improve the quality of
grdates which, in turn, should have a positive impact on economic growth.
E. Lessons Learned2
1.43 There is no previous history of Bank lending to Venezuela in the
education sector. Therefore, the lessons presented here are based on the Bank's
lending experiences in other countries where it has supported progmms in
primary education similar to the one proposed here.
1.44 Sustbilty. To increase the likelihood that education interventions
financed by the Bank will continue to produce benefits beyond project
completion, countries must develop a sense of ownership of the project.
Engaging relevant policy makers and technical staff on project preparation from
early stages of project identification and design is one of the best strategies to
achieve this goal. Also, local involvement in project preparation helps to esure
that project goals are in agreement with national goals. Other important elements
of project sustainability are: (i) defining both long and short term objectives of
the project so as to facilitate implementation and continuous monitoring and
evaluation; (i) addressing from the very beginning, the issue of adequacy of
initidal and future funding capacity for the different components of the project,
and (Mii) addressing the issue of strengthening the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Education for project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
1.45 During preparation of the proposed project the MOE has had an active
paricipation both in defining the goals of the project and on the design of each
componet. Although the project provides for the creation of a Project
Coordination Unit for its implementation, special atention has been devoted to
ensure that this Unit only plays a coordination role for MOE units that will be
resposible for the direct execution of project components. Furthermore, the
2    M&is socdon is based on: (i) a review of 20 Project Performnc  Audit Reports
(PPAR) and Project Completion Reports; (ii) reco tondrawn frm the
foliowig Ban's docmnts and reports: 'lh Susiniity of Investmet Prjqecs
in Eduaon (1990)', "Effective Implementation: Key to Development Impact
(1992), Textboob in the Developing Wodd (1989)-, -Educational Dcentration
in Latin America: Lessons Leamned (1992)- and Reports No. EDT 20, EDT 21, EDT
50, EDT 53, LATHR 9, PPR 53, WPS 143, and OED 9225.



- 14 -
Unit should also ensure that the activities funded by the project are integVated
into MOE day-to-day operations.
1.46 Textbooks and Instructional Materials. The success of a textbook
component is diretly related to the extent to which the project design addresses
all aspects of the system to provide textbooks, i.e. preparation, manufacturing,
distribution and finaning. This does not mean that the project has to finance
each aspect. The key problem areas encounterd in textbook progrms are: (i)
incapacity to supply books continuously- due to -lack of funding, inadequate
institutional armrgements, poor distribution and poor system coordination; (ii)
'inadequate attention given to the quality and appropriateness of the books
provided; (iii) neglect of aspects related to book utilization, such as teacher
trining and distribution; and (iv) conflicts between government and local
publishers.
1.47 This proposed project addresses these issues in several ways. First, local
publishers have been invited to the MOE to discuss the project and to review the
new guidelines for textbook evaluation. Second, the project will support the
reform of the current system for evaluating, selecting, procuring, and
distributing textbooks and instructional materials and will sponsor a seminar to
train authors on how to design books that promote active student involvement.
Third, the teacher training program supported by the project will promote sills
that take advantage of textbooks, reading books and other instructional materials
supported by the project.
1.48 Teacher Training. Projects supporting in-service teacher training must
make a clear distinction between activities designed to certify or inse
untrained teachers from activities that aim at ppgrading the level of knowledge
and skills of current teachers. In the latter case it is important to distinguish
between objectives aimed at improving general knowledge and skldls of current
teachers from objectives aimed at training teachers in the use of textbooks and
other instructional materials. Generafly, programs designed to deal with special
issues, such as taining on the use of textbooks, are successful only when they
are intensive and when they relate directly to the participants' work context. The
most effective programs are thow which are locally initiated and implemented.
1.49 Since the support provided to teachers through training is crucial in
assuring effective use of textbools in the classroom, the proposed project
provides for a close collaboration between the teacher training component and
textbooks component. The main objective of the teacher training component
would be to mgrge the level of skills of current teachers in the utilization of
instructional materials provided by the project. To help develop local capacity
for training teachers and to make sure that the training received is reevant to
local conditions, the implementation of this component would be carried out by
teacher taining insditutions located in each state.
1.50   tional Development. A key aspect for the success of educational
refrms in developing countries is the effectiveness shown by the Mnistry of
Education to manage change. Thrwee elements which are central to effective



-15-
management of change are: (i) consistent commitment of senior policy makers,
in words and resource allocation, to reform; (ii) consistency between reform and
national educational goals; and (ii) effective implementation.
1.51 To ensure broad political support the project includes a dissemination
campaign to expWlain the objectives of the project and to elicit collaboration from
local institutions, other than the schools, i.e. parents' associations and
unIversities, in the implementation of the project. Fnally, management taining
has been planned to strengthen the implementation capabilities of the executing
agencies.
1.52 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Institutionalization of M&E
activities as an integral function of plAning and management of the education
sector has been identified as a key element to assess the effectiveness and
sustainabilit of a project. The introduction of M&E systems requires strong
policy support and funding commitment over a relatively long period of time.
A review of some country experiences in the area of student assessment by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Technical Department concluded that in order
to strengthen their capacity to use the results of a student achievement system
countries must: (i) define clearly the objecfives of the assessment, including how
the assessment is expected to contribute to improve the quality of education; (ii)
design from the start a dissemination plan targeted to different audiences; (iii)
give serious consideration to the possibility of keeping the testing component of
the assessment system outside the government and to use sample surveys rather
dtan censuses to collect information; (iv) include funds for research as part of
the assessment program; and (v) include the cost of training of psychometricians
and statisticians as part of project cost. All these recommendations have been
incorporated in the design of the student assessment component of the project.
2. TUE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1  The main goals of the project are to assist the Govemment of Venezuela
to raise the level of student achievement, reduce the incidence of repetition and
dropout, and increas graduation rates of basic education through improvements
in the quality of education and administrative efficiency. Because education is
moving toward being decentralized, another important objective of the project
is to help states develop their own capacity for manwagng the system efficiently.
Towards these ends the project would: (a) increase student access to textbooks
and oher instructional materials; (b) improve teachers' teaching skills and
effeceness; (c) improve the educaion management capacity of MOE and of
the State Education Secretariats (SES); and (d) develop MOE's capacity to
coordinate and formulate policies, monitor student leaning and school quality,
and identify bottlenecks and problems at the state and local levels in a timely
manner.



- 16-
2.2  This proect has been designed with enough flexibility to support
decentralization. Immediate support for the decentralization process is difficult
because MOE and the states have little institutional capacity to manage a
decentraliz  system. Consequently, the project would begin by financing
management studies which would be followed by action plans to strengthen
human resources and financial management capaties of MOE and SES. These
action plans would be based on the findings and recommendations of the
managent stu.ies
2.3  The Venezuelan Government has also asked the Inter-American
Development Bank (MB) to finance a parallel loan to the education sector.
Although the main component of this loan would consist of school rehabilitation
it would also include the financing of three other components to: (i) upgrade
teachers', principals' and supervisors' knowledge of the official curriculum; (ii)
produce and distribute curriculum guides to teachers and didactic materials to
schools; and Oiii) strengthen MOEs and SESs' capacity to manage a permanent
system for school maintenance. To ensure that the two projects are fully
compmentary and to avoid ovetnapping of activities World Bank and the IlDB
staff have been in permanent contact throughout the project prearation period.
B. Project Components
2.4  The proposed project would consist of four components:
(a) an Instrucional Materials DevelQmenl (US$85.3) component
that would provide for: (i) increasing students access to textbooks and
ring materials; (ii) increasing teachers' access to educational
resources; and (iii) an inteactive radio program for teaching math in the
first tre grades. The project would finance technical assistance and the
acqisition, production and distribution of textbooks, workbooks, reading
mateas and teachers' guides, as well as the production and broadcastng
of math radio programs.
(b) a Telachr Iaining (US$36.2) component that would consist
of: (1) an in-service teacher taining progrm that would promote the
effective use of the instructional matrals to be distributed under the
project; (ii) a comprehensive evaluation of pre-service teacher training to
promote the refom of the crrent system of teacher tamig; and (iii)
designing and testing some experimental modules for upgrading teacher's
subject matter knowledge in the areas of language, science, and
mathematics, to help develop at the state level a permanent capacity for
in-service teacher training. The project would finance the productin of
training materials, the design of training semnars and workshops, the
training of teachers, a study of pre-service training systems, and technical
a_ssace.



- 17-
(c) an Inif tLxaQpuAmnt (US$54.3 component to: (i)
conduct management audit studies of the sector that would include both
the central Ministry of Education as well as statlevel secretaries of
education and educational zones (Zonas educativas), and a grant progam
to support the implementation of action plans to implement the
recommendation  of the management studies; (ii) support the
modemization and decentralization of the edaional system  by
improving the decision making, management, planning and monitoring
capcities of the MOi, and of state education authorities, in the areas id
personnel management, financial and budgetary control, program
management, policy analysis, and schodl supervision; (iii) deelop strog
communication linkages between the center and state govemments
through a modern educational management information ssm; (iv)
support a grant program for schools to encourage teachers to develop,
produce and disseminate locally-adapted instructional materials; and (v)
support the establishment of a modern student assessment system and its
use by principals, supervisors, administratos and particularly, policy
makers at the school, municipal, state and central levels. The project
would finance training, technical assistance, dissemination and
communication campaigns, computer hardware and software, spedal
grant funds, and studies.
(d) a Studie (US$3.0 million) component to support (i) the
completion of a series of studies of school effectiveness and educational
finance both in secondary and primary education; and (ii) the
identification and design of activities to improve quality of education and
expand coverage at the secondary level. The project will finance
technical assistance, and preparation and dissemination of studies.
2.5  Theproject will targetpoor groups through the following mechanisms and
sub-components: provion of non-printed teaching materials, clawsroom
libraries, as well as the application of the Reading Plan to rural and urban low-
income schools using a school census that records socio-economic differentials
across commwnities; funding of school improvement grants through a formula
which gives special consideration to rural and urban low-income schools. Lastly,
the prqect will provide textbooks to 70% of the total public school popuation.
C. Project Description
Component 1: Instructional Materials
2.6 A major goal of the project is to increase the availability of textbooks,
workbooks, reading books, and teacher guides in the classroom. This project
complemented by an Inter-American Development Bank (1DB) proposed project
will create an adequate mix f instructonal materials available for students and
teachers in the classroom, and thus, increase efficiency and effectiveness in the
classroom. Given the limited resources available, the project is targeted at
schools in margind urbn and rural areas, which roughly represnt 70% of tie



- 18-
total public school population. ITe identificaton of targeted schools would be
canied out using infomation being coUlected on a school census conducted by
the MOE and which should be completed before loan disbursment (para. 6.3b).
A condition of disburement for aU sub-components of the instructional
materials component of the project would be to have idendfied the targeted
schools using the school census information (para. 6.3b). The project will also
address institutiona and financing problems in order to progessively create
conditions for long-term, self-sustained provision of instuctional materials. The
Present component is divided into four sub-components: (i) textbooks, work
books and teacher's guides; (ii) reading materials; (iii) non-printed instructional
materials; and () in i  radio.
a)    Txbooks
2.7 During the last decade, textbook acquisition by the Venezuelan Ministy
of Education has been virtually nil, going down from a volume of over 3.7
million textbooks for 3.2 million basic education students in 1979 to just 70,000
texooks for 3.8 million students in 1989.  As the economic situation
deterirated, budgets were primarily used to pay teacher salaries. The
ceentralized and inefficient system of distrbution futher contributed to limit the
number of books reaching the schools. Data collected for this project's
preparion indicates that 75% of students in rural areas and 50% in urtban areas
do not have texdbooks. Overall, 66% of the sudents do not have textbooks.
Furthemore, only 28% of the schools have a worldng library. In many
classrooms where students do have textbooks there is more than one title per
subject, because exisdng regulations forbid teachers to recommend any
partcula title. This makes it extremely difficult for teachers to combine
lectuing with the use of textbooks. Notwithstanding these problems, a thriving
pvate sector eists providing textbooks to private schools and to a few public
sool students whose parents can afford to buy textbooks.
2.8  To addre these problems, the proect will support a new policy for
textbook provision and a new system for the evaluation, selection, procurement,
and distribution of textbooks and other instructional materas. The new system
would conist of two stages. First, the executing agency (MOE or SES) would
produce a short-list of recommended books based on criteria of textbooks'
quaity and price, as wei as prspective suppliers' financial and technical
capabilities.  Second, the SESs would place coresponding orders to the
suppiersa based on selecdon done by schools and would contract-out distibution.
A1l textbooks would be procured using Intemational Competitive Bidding.
2.9 To produce the short-list, the executing agency would follow a two-step
approach. As a first step, the MOE would select "accepted- titles and then, as
a second step, the execting agency would select titles based on price. In the
ft step, books subaitted to MOE for selection will be subjet to three
sequential reviews:  ) publisher' qualifications (production and finanial
capacities for fulfiliglarge scale orders and experience); (i) publishers' ability
to prduce books which meet the minimum physical production specifications
and book durability critia; and (1u) a detiled pedagogical evaluation of book



- 19-
content to ensure that all books on the approved list meet national curriculum
requrements and promote an interave and participatory education process,
classroom discussion, multiple correct answers, and 'processing" of information
as opposed to memorization. Once this process has produced a list of
-accepted" titles for the different grades and subjects, the second step of price
selection would begin by soliciting price bids for print runs of varying size for
all "accepted3 titles. AUl titles falling within 15 percent of the lowest bid will
be placed on the final short-list that would be distributed to schools through the
SESs for the final selection of titles.
2.10 Price selection for the first round of textbooks (grades one and two)
would be prepared either directly by MOE or through a procurement agent,
selected by MOE and the Executing States (ES), and acceptable to the Bank.
This experience would be evaluated by the Borrower and the Bank to decide if
the second round of textbooks would be procured by a centrl agency or by each
ES. If the decision favors procurement by the ES, then the ES would call
individual price-bids for the provision of textbooks for all eligible schools of the
state. The procurement method to be used for procuring the third round of
textbooks would be decided by the borrower and the Bank based on the results
of an evaluation of the previous experiences. The Operational Manual shall
contain a detailed descrption of the above two step process and the
arrangements for coordination between MOE and ES that would be used for the
procurement of textbooks.
2.11 The project would supply four textbooks per year for all students
attending grades one to nine in rual schools and urban schools in marginal
areas. This is roughly equal to 70% of the students enrolled in national, state
municipal, and subsidized schools in grades one to nine. Each book would be
used, on average, for three years. In order to avoid overloading the system the
project contemplates a schedule of distnbution which would allow time for the
MOE and the SES to gradually increase the volume of the project After an
initial year of preparatory work, the project would begin distributing books to
children attending grades one and two. Then, during the third year it would
cover grades three, four, and five, plus replacement of damaged books in the
first two grades; and finally dunng the fourth year it would reach students from
grades six to nine, plus replacement of textbooks for the first five grades.
Overall, the distribution of about 11,350,000 textbooks is planned throughout
the duration of the project. Also the prcject would finance claroom storage
facilities in order to protect textbooks from damage. Expenditures on textbooks
would be financed by the Bank on a declining basis from approximately 100
percent in the first year of implementation to 15 percent in the last year.
b)    Reading Materials
2.12 Venezuela has a rich, successful and relafively well dncunted
experience with regional and school libraries, as well as with an itinerant
reading program, called "plan lector' (r=ding lan). The latter is a progmm
in which boxes containing 30 to 40 volumes of a book travel from school to
school, in rural areas. The objective of the program is to promote reading



- 20 -
habits, and to improve reading comprehension and writing skills. Teachers are
trained to read and explore these books with the students and their families. As
the boxes move from school to school, every year each school can receve up
to 27 different titles, under the supervsion of a local library. This progam,
which has been recendy evaluated by the Nadonal Library, has proven to work
smoothly and to be effective in promoting reading habits. This actity will be
strengthened with project resources to benefit all rural and urban marginal
schools.
2.13 Based on strong evidence on the importance of reading materials in the
classroom to promce interest in reading and reading habits, the project will
provide all rural schools with small collections of supplementary reading and
complementary books for permanent use in the classroom. The claaroon
liDr=r collection will contain a total of four copies of 50 different titles of
selected reading and complementary books for each class of students in the first
six grades.
2.14 These two activities (i.e. reading plan :nd classroom librarie) will be
progressively implemented, and schools will only receive the books after their
teacbers have been adequately trained. The project will finance the acquisition
of reading books and teachers guides, teacher training, promotion activities, and
evaluation. Storage facilities would be financed under the textbook component.
2.15 The National LIbrary would be responsible for implementing the
clasroom libray program through its national network of local libraies, while
FUNDALEC7URA, a recently created foundation for administering
internationally funded reading programs, would be responsible for implementing
the reading plan program. The NRC is represented in each state by the State
Readng Commission, in which MOE, local universities, teacher trainng
institutions, public libraies and ote civic organization participate. The design
and implementation of the evaluation of this component wil be contacted
outside MOE to an independent organization.
c)    NoQn-Jed Inamcnna  Materials
2.16 Non-printed instructional matials consisting of learning games, puzzies,
science kits, alphabet blocks and posters will be provided to single teacher
schools and rual schools covering less than six grades (escuelas concentradas).
The objective of this activity is to promote active teaching, and learning by
doing and experimentation among students. The final list of items to be
distributed under the project is being developed by a commission involving
CENAMEC, MOE and the National Library. The items wil be grouped into
two sets: one will address the learning needs of students in grade one to three
and the other will focus on the needs of students from grade four to six.
CENAMEC will be responsible for implementing this sub-cmponent in
colaboration with the SESs.



- 21 -
d)    ltasl hah
2.17  nteatve radio has been shown to be a powerful technique to improve
teaching effecwdveness in areas where teachers lack sufficient subject matter
knowledge. Several evaluations of interactive radio instruction (M) suggest
that this is one of the most cost-effective techniques for improving student
achievement. This technique combines daily radio broadcasts with pcical
activities for students and guidelines for teachers. Interactive radio programs
serve as an aid to the teacher and generally involve daily 20-30 minute radio
lessons followed by a 15-30 minute teacher-led acfivity. Many of the progms
are accompanied by student worksheets and a short guide to belp teachers
prepare fr each lesson and to conduct post-broadcast activities.
2.18 A study conducted by CENAMEC in Venezuela shows that one area
where school teachers lack subject matter knowledge is mathematics. The
current project would, therefore, finance the expansion of a pilot interactve
radio project of 25 math lessons which has been pilot-tested locally. This pilot
project has adapted existing materials from other Latin American countries, such
as Bolivia and Costa Rica, to the Venezuelan curiculum and language. The
current project proposes to rent public radio broadcasing time. However, it
may be necessary to expand coverage by contracting broadcasting time in
private, commercial radio stations. The project would cover grades one to
three. It would start broadcasting math lessons to the second grade, would be
expanded during the second year of implementation to grade three, and finally,
during year three, it would cover grade one. Participation of schools would be
voluntary, and coverage would therefore be limited only by the willingness of
individual schools to join the project. Such willingness, however, will partally
depend on the promotional campaign to be implemented under the project.
2.19 The implementation of this component would be the responsibility of
CENAMEC, the national organization responsible for the promotion of teaching
of math and science. The project would finance the production of teaching and
training materials, teacher training, program broadcasting, program promotion,
and technical assistance. Depending on the success of the project it is
anticipated that, in the long run, classrooms using this program will not require
mathematics textbooks because the teaching materials produced by the program
will replace traditional textbooks.
Component 2: Teacher Training
2.20 Although the majority of teachers are graduates from universities, teacher
training institutes or 'escuelas normales%, there is a consensus in the country
that teachers do a poor job because, despite their many years of formal
education and training, they have not mastered basic teaching skils and have a
poor command of the subjects they are supposed to teach. For example, the
results of a recent competency test administered in the State of Merida during
the 1992-93 academic year to screen candidates for teaching positions at the pre-
school and basic education leel indihcate that teachers have an alarmingly low



- 22 -
command of basic pedagogical skdlls, and of reading comprehension and
writing. Over one third (36%) of the candidates for teaching positions in basic
education had a combined score that was below the minimum in reading and
writng, knowledge of the official program, and mastery of basic pedagogical
skills.
a)    In,Seryjq Teacher Trining
2.21 Based on- the fnding that toneshot curseswith no. follow up, are
raely effective3, the project advocates the provision of an intensive two-week
taining workshop which would be followed up by a mid-year and an end-of-
year rdresher seminar for all grade one to grade nine school teachers, direcors
of school clusters and supervisors of rural schools. The refresher seminars
would be designed to provide opportumty for teachers to exchange expeiences
and for the trainers to assess the effectiveness of the training program. The
main focus of the training would be on the effective use of the instructional
materials supplied under this project and under the 1DB-financed project.
Training would be organized separately for multigrade clasroom teachers and
single grade teachers. The project would finance the production of training
materials and a total of 5,100 workshops and refresher seminars benefiting
io6,400 teachers, director of school clusters and rural supervisors. A more
detailed description of the implementation strategy for this component is
presented in Annex 5.
2.22 This component would be carried out jointly by MOE and the SES. To
help develop a national teacher training capacity that is responsive to local
conditions, the organizatior. of the training workshops and seminars, and the
actual delivery of the training, would be contracted out in each state to
universities and teacher training institutes. The main responsibility of MOE
would be to develop: (i) guidelines for the selection of institutions that will
implement and deliver training; and CiH) training guidelines to be used by the
selected institutions for designing the necessary training materials and teaching
methodologies. The SES would be responsible for selecting the teacher training
institutions in their states and for supervising and monitoring the delivery of
trining. Expenditures on teacher training would be financed by the Bank on
a declining basis from 100 percent in the first year of implementation to 15
percent in the last year.
b)    Development of a Permanent Capacity for In-Service Teacher
Trainin
2.23 There is consensus among educational policy makers in Venezuela that
poor command of subject matter causes teachers' ineffectiveness, forcing them
to use old, autocratic, teacher-centered teaching stgies, rather than student-
centered, more acdve sttgies. The weak command of subject matter is also
one of the main reasons why teachers spend a large percent of their time in
3    Lockeed, M. and Verpoor, A. Imving Pmy Educaltion in Developing
*    Countries. (New York: Oxford University Pes for the World Ban, 1991).



-23 -
activities not directly related to teacding, such as control and discipline.
Currendy, universities and teacher taining institutes offer few coure for
upgrding teaches' mmand of subject matter, and most of those offerd are
of poor quaity. The massive number of teachers to be retrined reqi
creadve management and instructional strategies. In response, the prposed
project will fiance competitive grants to encourage universites and teacher
tining institutes. to develop and test modern teacher tridning modules for
upgrading teacher' subject matter knowledge in key area such as language,
ia  and sci . The proj  will aiofinance the evialuadon of these courses.
Based on the results of this evaluation some courses would be endorsd by MOB
so they can be offered t teachers for a fee. It is expee Ot teachers win
attend these training modules becase they would be recognized by the MOB for
promotion and saly increases accoreing to the regulations of the nwly
appoVed teachers' statute.
c)     lan for the Rd=  of f      e   X-= Tr mad=
2.24 The major problems of the current system of prservice teacher taining
are the excessive length of taining, inadequate attention to supevised prwtce
teaching, low quality of entering students, high rates of dropout, inefficient and
wasteful mn ement, inadequately tained staff, and an unclear relatonship
between the National Pedagogical University (UPEL), which depns
adminiively on the MOE, and other universites and teacher tanng
institutes. Overall, Venezuela's large investment in trying to convey a bachelor's
degree to all teachers has not resulted in modern pedagogy in the classroom or
in increased student leaning. As a result of the complexity of the problems
fiang pre-serce teacher trainig, the project will finance a study of the enie
pre-serice training system, accompanied by an action plan for reforning the
system. The study would examine, inter-alia: (i) the lengt and content of pre-
serice teacher training; (ii) its organization and management pactices; (iii) staff
quality; (iv) effective utliaon of facilites and staff; (v) entrance standards and
policies; (vi) graduation standards and policies; and (vii) long-tem needs for
teachers and how these will be met. Terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
were presented for this study by the GOV at negotiations.
2.25 Due to the complexity of these topics, the study could take as long as 18
months to be completed. After completing the study, the prqect would support
dissemination of the results through a seies of seminars and workshops that will
be organized by regions. The purpose of these workshops and seminar is to
generate consensus for an acdon plan that should seve as the basis for the
reform of the system which could be financed with the support of IBRD or other
internationaI lending institutions.
Component 3: Instutonal Development
2.26 MOE and the SESs would be chiefly responsible for implementing the
project   Since their current capacities are constraints to sumessful
implementation, the key challenge of the proat would be to  pwove the



-24 -
management efficiency of the system  through a concerted program  for
management reform. The reform would specifically aim at strengthening the
administrative and implementation capacity of both support agencies (such as the
curriculum  unit of the MOE) and operating uiits (such as the project
implementation unit at the SES level), as well as raising MOE and SES staff
competency to manage large-scale projects. To achieve these multiple goals, the
project would finance sudies leading to an action plan for management reform,
and a series of interventions to upgrade management roesses and staff
capailities.
a)    UMding of Pr,ic Mamen CaRac
2.27 Although Venezuela has a long tradition of promoting educational
inovaions, most of these innovations have been experimental, limited to a few
sites, and have very seldom been evaluated. As a consequence, MOE has
developed almost no capacity to manage more complex interventions affecting
the entire educational system and territory. The objectve of this subcomponent
is to supot the creation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that, reporting
direcdy to the Minister of Education, would be responsible for coordinating the
execution of programs that involve the participation of more than one functional
unit within MOE. The project would finance the creation of this unit, technical
assistance, equipment, training and dissemination campaigns. The PCU has
been formally established by Ministerial decree and a qualified professional has
been appointed to head the unit. As a condition for loan effectiveness the GOV
would have appointed the planning specialist, the procurement specialist, and at
least three of the six educational specialists (para 6.2c).
2.28 Since the SES would be responsible for executing the project at the state
level, the project also includes a series of acdvities to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Education Secretariat to manage large scale investment projects.
The activities suprted by this program would concentrat on developing SES
technial capacities to develop, execute and monitor the state development plan
and to coordinate the implementation of the current project. To help accomplish
this goal the project will finance technical assistance and short-term training
needed to establish a project management unit and a system for monitoring and
supervising project activities. Before negotiations the GOV presented to the
Bank an evaluation of the implementation capacity of five SESs. During
negotions the GOV presented to the Bank a plan to finalize the evaluation of
the remaining SESs. Before board presentation it had completed the evaluadon
of a total of seven (8) SESs. Also, during negodations MOE presented detailed
training plans for improving the capacity of the SESs for managing the project.
b)    Management Audits
2.29 Although there is abundant anecdotal evidence regarding the
mismanagement of resources and personnel at the central level of MOE and at
the state level of the ZEs and SESs, there very little hard data to support a
concerted long-term action plan for improving this sitation. To overcome this
pblem the project plans to conduct five intrelated mangement studies in all



-25 -
23 states and MOE. The objective of tfiese studies is to identify strategies for
imprving the opewnal efficiency of MOE and the SESs. The five sdies
would cover the following areas: (i) inventory and evaluation of the current
MOE and SES staff with special attention to the relation between their
qalifications and current responsibilities, and the assessment of overstaffing;
(ii) inventory of physical assets, land and equipment; (iii) assesment of the
financil impact of decentralization; (iv) assessment of the orgaizational impact
of decentralization on MOE's cunrent structure -and funcidons; and (v) study of
strategies, acions and investments needed so the SESs can efficiently opet
the servi  tansfefred to them. The studies would be caried out during the
first eighteen months after the date of Effectiveness and they would be the baiis
for the development of detailed action plans for reforming the operation of MOE
and SES in order to make these organizations more efficient and accountable.
The results and recommendations of these studies would be presented to the
Bank for its review and comments. No later than ninety days after completion
of the studies the Bank would conduct a joint review meeting with MOE and
each of the states to analyze the results of the studies and to agree on action
plans to implement the recommendations of the studies (para. 6. le, 6.1f and
6.lg).
c)    Modernization of Management Capacity of the MNnistr_ of
Education and of the State Education Setariats
2.30 Based on the results of the management audit studies and the action plans
agreed upon between the Bank, MOE and the SESs, this subcomponent would
support the creation of a specal grant fund to finance the strengthening of key
MOE and SES functions such as personnel management, planning and
programming, budgetary and financial control, monitoring and evaluation. The
prqect will finance technical assistance and training to support the proposals
presented by the states and MOE to implement the action plans resulting from
the recommendatons of the management studies mentioned on paragraph 2.2
above. Activities to be financed by this fund include, inter alia: (i) taining of
senior and mid-level staff in personnel management, planning, monitoing and
evaluation; (ii) strengthening the functions of education management and
planning; (iii) reorganization of MOE and the SESs; (iv) studies of laws and
regulations that would need to be modified for an effective implementation of
decentralization; (v) studies of new functions, organizational structure, staffing
requirements and incentive systems that MOE and SESs would need to put into
effect under a decentalized system; and (vi) technical assistance. As condition
of disbursement for this component the Bank and the respective SES shall agree
on an action plan based on the results and recommendafions of the management
audit study (para. 6.3c).
d)    ManagmmtInformation Systm
2.Ji Preminary findings of a study financed by the Bank (Social Development
Project) indicate that MOE's information system produces information that is
outdated, unreliable, and in most cases irelevant. This occurs because the
metwdology used for data collection was designed for a much smaller and



-26-
unsophisdcated system and because MOB hardware is obsolete. The curent
project would support a complete overhaul of the system emphasizing timeliness
and usefulness of the infomation. To this effect, the new system would
simultaneously promot decentralization of several data collection and data
processing activities, as well as standardization and data sharing acros
management units.
2.32 The project would finance the development of a sound and modem data
collection system and the installation of a computerized Management
Information System. This system would be-desed to ensure that relet data
and information are available in a timely fashion to allow the development of
cohereit sector-planning and to expedite the decision maing process with
respect to budget allocation and financial control, personnel matters, and
resource allocation to schools. To this effect, the project would finance the
development of a decentalized but integrated system that would allow each state
to independently manage and process their own information while
simultaneously ensuring that the central MOE has timely access to the same
information. Specifically, the project would finance the purchase of necessary
computers and softwae, training, and technical assistance and studies on data
needs and udlization by high-and-mid level managers.
e)    School IMnrovement Grant (Si)
2.33 The School Improvement Grant program has been designed as a
mechanism to encourage school initiative through competition for extra financial
resources.  The objective of this component is to foster greater local
participation by primary schools in finding solutions to key problems in school
quality. Such participation will be encouraged by giving them greater autonomy
:n deciding how, where, and when to spend additional non-personnel, non-
recurrent financial resources which will be made available on a competitive
basis. Through this grant program the project would support school-based
initiatives designed to respond to local teaching conditions and to support the
improvement of learning conditions at the school level. The grants will be
targeted to schools operating in disadvantaged areas and will be allocated on a
competitive basis. Schools would be entitled to receive one grant during the
duration of the project. Each school-based project should be a one-year project.
To increase the chances of success, the project would not only finance the grant
program fund but will also finance training of supervisors rponsible for
assisting .chools in preparing their proposals and the design of guidelines for
preparing and evaluating projects. The design of this component has been
modeled after a similar successful program financed by the Bank in Chile.
2.34 School improvement projects could consist for example of: (a) developing
teaching and learning materials for the school; (b) reinforcing teaching of
reading, writing and mathemats; (c) establishing new pedagogical models; (d)
creating school orchards and gardens; (e) implementng teachers' workshops to
strengthen pedagogical supervision; (1) carrying out study tours of public and
private institutions, such as the state legislaume or a factory, attendance at
concerts and conferences, and other activities targeted to the school community



-27 -
acceptable to the Venezuelan educaional authorities and to the Bank; (g)
ogaMizing handicraft acdvities among students; (h) implementing cultura
activities orgnized by groups of parents and teachers; and (1) orgnizing school
theater and/or school radio-broadcasting operated by students and teachers; 0)
arranging periodic school exhibitions a&d fairs.
2.35 This component would finance a total of approximately 2,700 School
Improvement Grants. Since this idea has not been tried in Venezuela, this
component would be implemented gradually to allow the system to obtain
feedback and learm from experience, and to introduce changes based- on close
monitoring. The fit year of the project would be used for the preparation of
guids   dis      on   and training of supervisors- It is estimated that
during the second year of the project this program would finance 75 projects in
four states  Anotr nne states would be added during the third year of the
project, toaling 400 new projects. Finally the remaning ten states would be
incorporated during the project's fourth year, adding 880 new projects. During
the last year of the project 1,300 new grants would be financed. During
negotiations the Bank and the GOV agreed on the criteria to be used for
idenftifying schools eligible for funding under this component. A condition of
disbursement would be the identification of the targeted schools using the above
mentioned criteria in conjunction with information currently being collected on
a school census (pam. 6.3b).
g)    Student Amsment Sygm
2.36 Venezuela has had three isolated experiences with educational testing for
monitoring national achievement. However, all three experiences failed on
stitutional, technical and dissemination grounds. The experiences filed on
institutional grounds because none was ever institutionlized, nor was effort put
into building national capacity for assessment. The lack of attention to these
issues limited possibilities for continuity and capacity to monitor trends over
time.  Technically, the experiences suffered various flaws. (Annex 6
summaizes the main characteristics of the experiences.)
2.37 The purpose of the National Assessment System is to provide periodic,
valid and reliable information on the progress toward national achievement goals
in order to inform basic education policy decisions4. To achieve this goal the
project will finance testng students of grades three, six and nine over every
three years on math and language. This system is expected to become
particularly necessary when the government's plans for decentralization and
curriculum flexibility are institutionalized because it will provide quality control
and decision-analysis tools to national, state and local authorities. A national
assessment system is thus seen as ingrl to preparing and strengthening MOE
for changes in the educational system's management.
2.38 Considering MOE's low capacity for developing and managing a high
quality and timely assessment system, it was agreed that MOE would be
4    For a suammy of design, administraion, analysis, and dissemination see Anmnx 6.



-28 -
responsible for the general management (political authority, general
coordination, operationalization of the system at zone levels, and quality control
of instruments and procedures) and the promotion, dissemination and utilization
of the system. All other responsibilities (managig test development, test
administration, data processing, and analysis) are expected to be contcted to
an autonomous or semi-autonomous institution. A central goal of such
institutional arrangements is to strengthen MOE's capacity to seek and use
timely, reliable and valid information.
2.39 In order to ensure that the system reaches its goals, the project has also
emphasizedth6 system's promotion and dissemination. The systems' promotion
will involve informing the educational community and the public in generd of
the test and stimulating the demand for the information. The dissemination
campaign will not only emphasize providing reports and seminars for different
audiences but also the stimulation of research by other entities. For example,
SES and ZE will receive their own copy of the data in order to carry out further
analysis in their respective regions.
2.40 Venezuelan national assessment capacity would be strengthened by: (a)
pvding institution-based training for MOE staff in the contracted institution
during the five project years, (b) providing in-ountry workshops for 8 MOE
staff in: dissemination, descriptive and inferential statistics, psychometrics,
methodology and processes of building tests and other instruments, item writing
and analysis, software use, and optical scanning; (c) financing in-country
university graduate training in educational measurement and research using the
student assessment data; (d) study tours to foreign institutions with exience
in assessment; (e) training of coordinators and test administrators; and (f)
financing a publications fund for MOE tc purchase needed reference books.
The project would finance technical assistance, computers and software for data
analysis, training, scholarships, study tours, testing and dissemination activities,
and the creation of a technical library.
Component 4: Studies of School Effectiveness
2.41 In addition to improving the quality of basic education, the GOV is
interested in improving quality and expanding access to secondary education.
Discussions with authorities in MOE have revealed a lack of a strategy on how
to achieve these objectives. Moreover, there is no clear long-term policy on
secondary education. To help MOE address these issues the proect would
finance a series of studies on secondary education and a policy seminar to
discuss the findings and recommendations of the studies. Once the studies are
finished the project would finance technical assistance for the preparation of a
program of investments for secondary education.



-29 -
(a)    Stdie  Pn            Ftn
2.42 A major difficulty for the preparation of the current project has been the
lack of up-to-date infomation on school characteristics and of empirical studies
an determinants of quality of education. Consequendy, the project woad
finmce the collection of basic information for the production of a school map
and a series of studies of teaching practices and related factors that affect
pnmary education quality.
0)    &uidiea of Secondary  dution
2.43 In order to determine strategies for addressing issues of coverage, quality,
relevance, finance and efficiency of secondary education, the project would
finance the following studies: (i) determinants of access to secondary education;
(ii) evaluation of secondary education finance and management; (ii) evaluation
of internal efficiency of secondary education; and (iv) factors affecting the
transition from primary to secondary education.
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, IPROCUREENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Cost
3.1  The total project costs are estimated at US$178.9 million, and exclude
taxes and duties, which are negligible. The total foreign exchange cost is
estimated at US$45.5 million, including contingencies. Tables 3.1 and 3.2
summarize the estimated cost by project component and category of
expenditures.
3.2  Base Costs and Contingency Allowance. Base costs ar expressed in
April 1993 prices. Total contingencies of US$23.7 million represent 15.2
percent of base costs. Physical contingencies of US$9.7 miDlion represet 6.2
pecent of base costs. Price contingencies of US$14.0 million represent 9.0
percent of base costs, and were estimated based on a local projected inflation
of 20% for 1993, 15% for 1994, 10% for 1995, 10% for 1996, 10% for 1997,
and 10% for 1998, and a projected international inflation rate of 1.9% for 1993,
2.7% for 1994, 3.4% for 1995, 3.6% for 1996, 3.2% for 1997, and 3.2% for
1998. Furniture costs were based on lists of standard locally available items.
Equipment costs were based on prices of similar imported or locally available
items. Overseas and domestic training and costs of foreign and local consultants
were based on current standards. The exchange rate estimates for the midpoint
of each calendar year are as follows: Bs103.8 1994; Bsl 16.4 for 1995; Bs123.9
for 1996; Bs131.6 for 1997; and Bs140.4 for 1998.



-30-
Table 3.1: Summary of Projet Costs by Comporen
(USS Milosn)
% Total
L2a        Fori           Taal    Bae Coss
1. _aUcd Materiuls                        41.6         30.0         71.6           46
2. TesberTrlnlng                          32.4          0.1         31}5           20
3. usWkwA   mIpnu.                        A415    -    7.6           391 .2
4. Stie and Seminas                        23           0.7          3.0            2
Physical Condplaies                       6.2          3.S          9.7            6
Price Conea                              10.5          3S          14.0            9
Total PROJECT COSTS                       133.4        4S.5         178.9         115
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditur1
(USS Milo T)a
Local      Forein         TOt      DM Costs
L Jmwestnent Costa
A. Equipment                     0.0          6.9          6.9            4
B. Inuuctoaa matedra            28.3         28.3         S6.5           36
C. Gras                         13.4          0.0         13.4            9
D. Studis                        94S          32          12.6            a
E. Tainiwg                      30.2          0.0         30.2           19
P. Local ConAl_as               13.6          0.0         13.6            9
0. Fmcig Counstants              0.0          0.0          0.0            0
H. Disemination                  3.1          0.0          3.1            2
L Monltd gand Evaultion          8.2          0.0          8.2            S
Total Jawate Coats                   106.4        38.4         144.6          93
EL Recurnt Costs
A. OpeatinCoads                  9.8          0.0          9.8            6
B. ConsumablebMaterials          0.7          0.1          0.8            0
Totl Recuet Coas                     10S         0.1          10.6           7
Physial Cooioles                 6.1          3S           9.7            6
Pdoe Con   _cagmns              10S          3.5         14.0            9
Tola PROJEC  COSTS                   133.4         45S         178.9         1IS



-31 -
B. Financing Plan
3.3 The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$89.4
million or 50 percent of total project cost net of duties and taxes. It would
cover 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditus and 32.6 percent of the
estimated total local costs. The govemment of Venezuela (GOV) would finance
the remaining US$89.5 million including duties and taxes. The financing plan
and loan allocatin byr -catgoy of expenditure are presented in Table 3.3.
3.4  It is anticipated that the fimds would be managed though the Venezuelan
Fuid for Social Investent (FONVIS) which will disburse money to the
executing agencies upon request of MOE's PCU. The project would finance the
management fees for this service. The full proceeds of the Bank loan and the
GOV counterpart funds would be transferred to FONVIS through annual
budgetary allocations.
Table 3.3: Fmanoing Plan
(1US$ '000)
1BD       Loan  Govemen       ToW       RD %
EquIpment                        8.2        0.0       8.2     1I0.0
MnauuoiaaMto                     33.6      34.4      68.0      5S.0
soal inD ometGrab                 7.5       7.6      15.1      50.0
Lca Coeanu s                      4.6      10.7      15.3      30.0
Po.lnCoaanas                     0.01       0.0      0.01      100.0
Studs                            10.A       2.S      12.9      80.0
TU&ift                           20A       13.7      34.1      50.0
DIumInatIoe                       0.0       3.6       3.6       0.0
Evaluatonh                        4.7       4.8       9.5      50.0
Opegm Camt                        0.0      11.3      11.3       0.0
CoinumableMaIhias                 0.0       0.9       0.9       0.0
TOTAL                 89.4      89.5      178.9      50.0
C. Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project
3.5 Some of the costs resulting from the project will be continued after
project completion and will become part of the sector's ongoing recunent costs.
The additional annual recurent e nditures at the end of the project are
esmated at about US$2.5 million in 1993 prices. This estimated increase
wold reesent about 0.1% of MOE recurrent budget for 1993. The esmated
increase in recurrent expenditures will consist mainly of textbooks, and teacher
triining. Expenditures on these two items would be financed by the Bank on



- 32 -
a declining basis from 100 percent in the first year of implementation to 20
percent in the last year.
D. Project Sustalnabilty
3.6 The effect of the proposed project on total sector expenditures and the
ability of the GOV to sustain the resulting increase has been a matter of
continuous discussion with the govemment. Tlere is basic agreement that the
Bank will finance textbooks and teacher training on a declining basis. Ihe GOV
brought to negotiations a long term sustainability plan providing indicative
budget figur  covering project implementation and estimates for a five year
period after project completion. These figures would be used as the basis for
annual discussions between the Bank and the GOV of MOE budget alloains
for the following fiscal year (para. 6. lb). This plan also identifies the budget
line items that will be monitored during project implementation to ensure
adequate MOE financing of the project.
L Procurement
3.7 Bank procurement guidelines will be followed for the proposed project.
The Venezuelan Procurement Law (Ley de Licitaciones, passed in August 1990)
gives an explicit waiver to all contracts (civil works, purchase of goods, and
srices) relatd to projects financed by international financing agencies and
guarantees the application of their respective procurement reguations or
idelines in such cases. The project would involve the procurement of
textbooks, reading books, teacher's guides, computers and office equipment,
scholasips, travel expensa, and consultant services, including studies,
ehnical assistnce, training, auditing and supervision.
3.8 All of the states have a unit responsible for bidding, contracting and
procurement of good and services, reporting to the SES. The capacity of these
units to handle the procurement of goods was assessed during appraisal with the
conclusion that they would need technical assistance and computer equipment
to bring them  up to Bank standards.  Consequently, the institutional
strengthening component of this project provides funds for these activities.
3.9  Tintonal Mbterials, Equipment and Furiture. The total cost of
instructonal materis (mcluding textbooks, reading books and teacher's guides)
is estimated at about US$68.0 million equivalent, including contingencies, of
whkh US$45.5 million would be procured trough interational competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures when conats for these items are estimated to cost
US$250,000 or above. Contracts for instructional materals (other than
textbooks) estimated to cost US$50,000 or above but less than US$250,000, and
not exceeding US$20.3 million, would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Miscellaneous items
esdimated to cost less than US$50,000 would be procured through shopping
proceures up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2.2 million. Where
*  ICB procedures are used, goods mufcued localy would be given, for the



* 33.
pupose of bid evaluation, a preferec  marsin in accordance with Bank
guidlines.
3.10 The total cost of equipment (including computrs and peripherals, office
equipment, and vehicles) and friniture is estimated at about US$8.2 million
including contingencies. Of this total, about US$3.0 million worth of computer
systems and vehicles would be procured through Limited Inteonal Bidding
(LIB) procedures among manufacturers who have established maintenance
facilites in  Venezuela.   Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
U$2W50,000 or less, but more than the equivalent of US$50,000, up to an
agregate amount equivalent to US$3.8 million, may be awarded in accordance
with LCB procedures nationally advertised and satisfactory to the Bak.
Contracts esdmated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less, up to an
aggrgate  amount eqivalent to US$1.4 million may be procured under
loca/inteational shopping acceptable to the Band.
Table 3.4: Prument Arrangemet
(USS million equvalt)
Prourmet Method
ICB    LCB    Other  NB.P       Total
A. Equipment                        -     3.8      4.4              8.2
(3.8)    (4.4)           (8.2)
3. in|_rutn  Materiab
Textbooks                   45.5               -      -      45.5
(23.0)                          (23.0)
Non-Printod Didactio MatUels         7.7       -      -       7.7
(3.1)                    .1)
Printod Didactic Materia-    12.6             2.2     -       14.8
(6.9)    (0.8)           (7.7)
c. Grats (SIG)                              -     15.1     -       15.1
(1.5)           (7.5)
D. Couanats                                 -     37.7     -       37.7
(19.6)          (19.6)
E Traing                            -       -     34.1             34.1
-     (20.2)    -     (202)
F. Operatig CosIs                   -       -       -    11.3      11.3
G. Consumable Mat                   -      -        -     0.9       0.9
H. D-se.Intlan                      -                     3.6       3.6
Total       45.5   24.1    93.5   15.8    178.9
(23.0)  (13.8)   (52.6)          (9.4)



-34-
NoW Fto iu  parethes an do repatv amout fane by IDRD. lCD: nationa
competvebddg. LC: Local        n Compuo bidin. NA.P.: Not Ban Fnaced. Other.
Lnhed Interaonal Didt, Load Shping and Conuot Servces.
3.11 School Improvement Grant (SIG). The maximum cost of any project
to be finced through thee SIG would not exceed US$7,500, the average amount
btg US$4,400. The grants would fuace a wide varety of good and senrices
inmluding, but not limited to, paper, ink, pencils, consultants fees,
transportaion, and smal equipment. Given the nature of the grant it is difficult
to predict in advace the nature of the goods and semces to be procured,
makng ICB and LCB unsi&table. Therfore, these contracts, with a total value
of US$15.1 million, would be awarded on the basis of three price quotations or,
when price quotations cannot be obtained, through other procuement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Each individual contract would not exceed US$3,000.
The Bank would sample on a periodic basis the procurement practices followed
in the implementation of the projects financed under the SIG.
3.12 Technca Asitance and Consultant Servies. Consultants cawrying out
studies and technical assistance would be hired following the Bank's Gudelines
for dwe Use tYCorStants by World Bank Borrowers and by dte World P-ik as
-&ecuing Agency (August 1981). Contra  for small consulting services valued
at US$15,000 or les, up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million, would be
formalized on the basis of stndard terms of reference and employment
conditions and would not require pnor review by the Bank. For individual
cosultants, prior review of all contrcts, regalss of the amount, is required.
3.13 Inservlce Teacer Trainig. ITe project would promote a series of
seminars and worLshops to train teachers. The implementation of these
seminars and workshops will be contracted out to universities and teacher
asining institutes following the August 1981 Bank's Gudelnes for the Use of
Constanu by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as EJcuang
Ageny.
3.14 As they become available, MOE will use Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) iswed by the Bank for the procurement of goods and services under ICB,
as well as for hiring consultants during project implementation. LCB standard
bidding documents which have already been agreed vith the GOV and are in use
for Bank-financed projects may continue to be used. Changes needed to suit
project requirements would be approved by the Bank. Where no such SBD or
standard LCB exist, other intemationally recognized standard forms agreed with
the Bank would be used. A condition of loan effectiveness will be the
submission by the GOV of model bidding documents acceptable to the Bank for
the pt of goods and sevices (pama 6.24).



-35 -
3.15  Bank  Review        irments. The Bank will review and approve before
contract award all procurement documentation for books, educational materials
and equipment to be procured through ICB and LIB. In addition, fte Bank will
review and approve before contract award all LCB contracts for goods in excess
of US$150,000. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would cover
about 70% of the total amount of goods and services financed by the Bank. For
consulting firms on contracts estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equalent,
the Ban's prior review will cover only terms of reference, except in cases of
employment of single source selection firms. For individual consultants, prior
review of all contracts, regardless of the amount, is required. All other
procurement wil be subject to selective ex-post review by the Bank  The ex
post review of contacts with consulting firms, for which only terms or
reference were subject to prior review, will cover no less than one in five
conats.
F. Disbursement
3.16 The project's completion date would be December, 1998, and the Closing
Date would be June 10, 1999. The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed
during a five-year period as follows:
Table 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Amount of the
Lou Allocated
(USS million) Percnt of Expenditures to be finuanced
1. Equipment                    8.2    100% of foreign and 80% of oal
exptu.
2. Instrconal Materal
Textooks                  23.7    100% up to an aggrgad amount of $4.0; 70%
up to an agggated amount of $12.5; 40% up
to an aggegated amount of $19.2; and 15%
with respect to the rmaining amount.
Other Inst. Materials      9.9    100% of foreign and 70% of local expenditures.
3. Consultants                 19.7    100% of foreign and 45% of locad expenditures
4. Traiing                     20.4    100% up to an aggregated amount of $4.0; 70%
up to an aggregated amount of $11.0; 40% up
to an aggregated amount of $16.5; and 15%
with respect to the remaiing amount
S. School Grants                7.5    50% of local expendiurs.
TOTAL                  89.4



- 36 -
3.17 Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed according to
implementation schedules for each component agreed upon between the GOV
and the Bank during negotiations. The proceeds would be disbursed against
expenditures that would be submitted to the Bank and fully documented for
contacts valued at more than US$150,000 equivalent for goods and at
US$15,000 for consultant services. Claims for expenditures of lesser amounts
would be disbursed against presentation of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs),
for which the supportng documentaton would be  tined by MOE for
inspetion by the Bank and externa auditors. SOEs will be certified locally by
the state education secretary of the respective states and at the national level by
the PCU. All expenditures, SOEs and procurement documents would be
transmitted to the Bank through the PCU.
Table 3.6: Estimated IBRD Disbursement
Total Costs, Including Contingencies
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year  FY94  FY95   FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  Totll
Annual         93   18.2   20.8  21.2  14.7   5.2  89.4
Cumulatvo      9.3  27.5   48.3   69.5  84.2  89.4
3.18 To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the project, the
government would set up a Special Account in U.S. dollars in the Banco Central
de Venezuela with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million equivalent, corresponding
to about four months of project expenditures. Funds from the Special Account
will be available for financing only the Bank's share of eligible project costs.
Proect funds will be channeled to the participating states through Specific
Projet Accounts to be opened at a state bank acceptable to the Bank by each
State Scretary of Education.
3.19 The Bank will replenish the Special Account as requested upon receipt of
satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing out of the
account. Replenishment requests will be sent to the Bank at agreed intervals.
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.20 Each of the project executing agencies (MOE and the SES CENAMEC,
FUNDALECTRA and the National Library) would establish and maintain
separ  accounts and records for project expenditures of the project component
or subcomponent under their responsibility. The PCU would maintain a
consolidated account of all expenditures under the proect. These accounts
would be audited annuaUy by independent auditors sactory to the BanL
Given the nature of the SIG, the accounts of a random sample of 10 percent of
the schools receving this grant would be reviewed and included in the annual
audit repor  The audit reports, which would also include an annual audit of the
financial staements of the proect account kept by eich SES and a sepaate



-37 -
opinion on the adequacy of statements of ependirs, would be forwarded to
the Bank no later that six months after the end of each fiscal year.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Status of Preparation
4.1  The project wasprepared by exising units of MOE, CEAMEC, and the
NRC working under the coordination of a Project Preparation Unit specialy
creaed for the prarati  of this and-the IDB poject. Techial assistance to
support project preparation was funded through the Bank's Technical Asistance
Loan (no. 3225-VE) as well as IDB's Pre-Investnent Loan (no. 606/0C-VE).
B. Project Management
4.2 Project implementation would be carried out within the existing
organitional structure of the MOE and SESs supported by the creation of a
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) (para 4.4) and the participation, via
implementation agreements of three autonomous agencies, CENAMEC,
FUNDALECTURA and the National Library (para.4.3, 6.1h, and Annex 7).
With the assistance of outside specialists that would be provided under the
project, MOE's divisions and autonomous institutions and the SES's should be
capable of ensuring the prompt and efficient implementation of their respective
project components.
4.3 The main implementing agencies for the project would be the state
educaton authorities, who would be directly responsible for implementng the
teacher training and the school improvement grant components. Based on the
outcome of the evaluation of textbook procurement (paras. 2.7 - 2.9) and the
management audits, the SESs could also be directly responsible for
implementing the action plans to strengthen and modernize the SESs and the
textbook component after the second year of textbook delivery. Components
that are an expansion of existing programs, such as the reading plan, classroom
libraries and the interactive radio programs, would be implemented by the
National Library, FUNDALECTURA, and CENAMEC in coordination with
state education authorities and line units of MOE such as the Division of Basic
and Secondary Education, and the units of Control and Evaluation, and Library
Services. MOE, through the divisions of Basic and Secondary Education,
Systems and Organization, Administation and Services, and the units of
Research, Evaluation and Control, and Library Services would participate in the
implementation of the components of clasroom libraries, non-printed teaching
matas, teacher training, development of capacity for teacher training,
moderniation of management, and school improvement grants. In all these
caes MOE will provide technical assistance and support for coordinating
implementation. MOE will assume direct responsibility for implementing the
textbook component during the first two years of textbook distribution, and for
the reform of teacher training, the management studies, the management



-38 -
information system, the student assessment system, and the studies for basic and
secondary education. Annex 7 provides a list of each executing agency
describing its role in each of the component or subcomponent of the project.
A condition of loan effectiveness will be the execution of legal agreements
between MOE and each of FUNDALECTURA, CENAMEC and the National
Library, for the implementation of the reading plan, the interactive radio
program and the classroom libraries, and the transfer of resources for these
components, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (pam. 6.2b).
4.4 The PCU, reporting directly to the Minister of Education, would
coordnte project acvities. The PCU would be rewsponsible for consolhdating
the yearly work plans of executing agencies, coordinating activities among
participating agencies, providing administrative backup services, and carrying
out project monitoring and evaluation. The PCU would be established and
staffed on a full-time basis with a Director, a planning and a procurement
specialist, an accountant, and six education specialists. Support to the higher
level staff would be provided by four mid- level technical staff and five support
staff. The organizaton and modus opmeandi of the PCU is presented in Annex
7. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the appointment of the planning
specialist, the procurement specialist and at least three (3) of the educational
specialists, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank (para.
6.2c).
4.5  A state can participate in the project either as a co-executor by signing
"Convenios de Corjudin" or a coLaborator by signing "Convenios de
Colaboraci6n* (para. 6.1h and 6.1i).  To ensure that there would be
implementation capcity at the state level all co-excuting states would have a
Project Coordinatng Unit and all collaborating states would have an
unpiementati-n Working Group (WG) coordinated by the Ministry of Education.
In all states not participating as co-executors or collaborators the Project will be
implemented by a PCU established at the Educational Zone(ZE). The
organizational stucture, functions and staffing of the PCUs and WGs would be
cleared by the Bank (para.6. lj). A condition of loan effectiveness will be the
formal establishment of the PCU or the WG in all states. In all cases the PCUs
and WGs must be staffed by professionals with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank (pam. 6.2c)
4.6 For the administration of resources MOE would be assisted by FONVIS.
FONVIS' main function would be to disburse money to the executing agencies
upon request and on behalf of MOE's PCU.
4.7 As a condition of loan effectiveness the MOE should have entered into
"Convenios de Coejecuci6n' or "Convenios de Colaboraci6n" with at least
fourteen states.  At least seven of these fourteen agreements should be
Conveios de CoQecuci6n" with the states of Monagas, Aragua, Sucre,
Falc6n, Bolfvar, Miranda and Ibc Distrito Federal. The replacement of any of
these states with a state with comparable enrollment requires prior approval by
the Bank(paa. 6.2a).



-39-
4.8  To guide projet implementation, the PCU is prepaing a Project
Opational Manual. A draft copy of the manual was presented to the Bank
during negodations. As condition of loan effeciveness the MOB will have
adopted the Operational Manual containing a description of procedures for
project implementon satisfactory to the Bank (pam   44).
C. Project Monitoring and Evluation
4.9  The PCU would be rponsible for ovea  project monitoring and
evaluation on the bWas of project monitoring indicators (Annex 9). Dudng
negotiations agreements were ren these X11  monig a    ua
indicator. The PCU would consolidate and send to the Bank for review, no
later than March 1 of each year: (1) annual project implementation reports
assessing progre  toward meeting the targets in the implemtati  schedules;
and (ii) a work plan for the implementation of project components during hie
following fiscal year (para. 6.la and 6.lb).
4.10 To ensure that the action plan and recommendaions resulting from the
management audit study are accepted by the Government and are tranted into
indicators that can be monitored on a yearly basis, the Bank would jointly
conduct with MOE and the SESs an implementaion review meeting ninety (90)
days after completion of the studies. The agreements reached during this
meeting would become the b' eprint for the moderization of MOE and SESs
after the end of the first yeau and a half of loan effectiveness (Pam. 6. lg).
4.11 MOE and the Bank would conduct joint project implementafion rviews
no later than March 15 of each year, sating in 1995, to: (a) analyze the
previous year's pforsance and MOE budget allocations for the following
fiscal year, (b) analyze the proposed work plan and budget for the following
year; (c) review progress in the impleentationf the action plan restuting from
the maagement audit studr, (d) discuss and agree on adjustment in the project
implenentation schedule; and (e) discuss the long term s ilit of the
project investmnts (para. 6. ic). A condition of disbursement would be that no
withdrawals would be made for expenditurs under the project unless the
expenditures are incuded in the annual work plan (pam. 4.9) approved by the
Bank (ara 6.3a).
4.12 At negotiations it was agreed that MOE would: (a) conduct, with prior
approval of fte terms of refernce by the Bank and no later than 30 months after
loan effectiveness, a mid-term review to analyze poject im plemention
experience and possible project impact, with focus on the monitoring indica
presented in Annex 9 (Par 6.1d); (b) all project accounts will -be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. These audits would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of eac fiscal year (para. 6.1k); and (c) standard
bidding document and letters of invitation satiatory to the Bank will be used
in aU pcurement financed by the Bank under the proect (pam 6.2d). During
negotations the GOV presented atsactwy evidence that it has included the



-40-
agteed counterpart funding for the project in the FY1994 budget pented to
Congress.
S. PROJECT BENEFllS AND RISKS
A. Project Bendfits
S.1 . The main benfits fte projet would be imp     s in the internal
efficiency of basic education and fte management efficiency of both the MOE
and state secretariats of education. Improved internal efficiency is in tum
expectd over the long term to result in: (i) increased grduation rat; (i)
reduced resource waste fom reducing repetition and droout; and (iii)
improvements in learning achievement of primary students. More efficient
management would result in: (i) improvements in MOE's capacity to formulae
policies at reWond to local needs, to monitor school quality, and to assist state
level education authonities in improving the efficiency of their systems; and (ii)
improvement in the states' capacity to alocate resources according to well-
defined policy objectives and priorities, and to implement timely responses to
pecific schools' demands.
B. Project Risks
5.2 The main project risks are associated with possible delays in project
implementation due to: (1) MOE's weak institutional and manageral capacity
and its lack of expeience with Bank-financed projects; (ii) SESs' weak
insttutional capacity to manage a project that will affect almost all schools in
each state; and (iii) possible opposition from the educational zones (Zoas
Educativas) to the key role that the SES would play in the implementation of the
project. The project would reduce the first and second risls to acceptable levels
through: (a) the creation of PCUs at the MOE level and at the state level; (b)
the provision of taining and technical assistance at both the national and sae
level; and (c) close monitoring. To increase MOE staff familiarty with Bank
procedures, a project launch seninar covering implementation, monitoring, and
financial  gement would take place soon after loan effectiveness. Although
the risk of opposition from educational zones would be more difficult to
manage, the project would reduce this risk by: (a) signing a management
agreement between MOE and the state Governors whereby management
esponsibilies for the project would be delegated to the SESs; and (b)
promoting early involvement of regional educational authorities in the iniiation
of each activity and its implementation. Also, since the education zones
administratively depend on MOE, it is anticipated that strong support from the
Minister and his management team would reduce restance from the educational
zones.



-41-
C. Envfonmental Impact
5.3  Since it mainly involves the acquisition of matials, raining, and
tccal assistance, the project is not epected to have any significa
environmental inm
6. AGREEMENM REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1  At negotiatons, assuances were obtained that the Bonrower wil:
(a)   furnsh to the Bank not later than March 1 of each year of
Project execution, an annual progress report on the Project, of
such soope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including, inter alia: (.) a section detailing progress in the
implemention of the Project in the previous year, and (i)
specific and justified proposals for adjustnents in Project
implementation based on the then current results (para. 4.9);
(b)   furnish to the Bank no later than March 1 of each year of Project
execution, for its review and approval, a proposed annual
operating plan providing for the activities, implementation
schedule, physical targets and a proposed budget for the Project
during the upcoming year (para. 4.9);
(c)    not later thanM  arch 15 of each year during theexecution of the
Project, starfing in 1995, hold annual reviews jointly with the
Bank. Such reviews would be based on the reports referred to
in paragraph (a) above, and would focus, inter alia, on the
following items: Oi) evaluatior of the progress in execution and
in the achievement of the objectives of the Project based on,
among other factors, the monitoring indicators agreed with the
Bank (see annex 9); (ii) discussion of the proposed annual
operating plan for the upcoming year; (iii) any changes in Project
implementation that may be necessary including the roles of
MOE and the Co-eecuting States in the procurement of
textbooks under the Project; and (Iv) MOE's psed budget fo
the financing of the Project and the long-term sustainability of the
investment under the Project (para. 4.11);
(d)   thirty months after the Effectiveness Date, review with the Bank
(mid-term review) the impact of the Project and its
implementation, in addition to the items referred to in paragraph
(c) above (para. 4.12);
(e)    not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effectiveness Date,
carr  out management studies to review the organization,
management and staffing practices of MOE and SESs (para.
2.29);



-42 -
(M)    upon the completion of such studies, present to the Bank ther
results and recommendations, and provide to the Bank a
reasonable time for their review and commens (pam. 2.29);
(g)   based on the results and recommendations of the above sbtes,
and takdng into account the Bank's comments thereon, present to
the Bank, no later than ninety (90) days after completion of the
studies, a plan or plans of action, satisfatory to the Bank, for the
MOE and each Co-executing State and Clabog Sta; and
then, Implement such plan or plans of action in a mamer and
under a timetable saisfactory to the Bank (par 2.29 and 4.10);
(h)   enter into implementation agreements (Comxik de iugi)
with each State deciding to pardcipate in the execution of the
Project and with CENAMEC, the National Library and
FUNDALECrURA to implement, respectively, the sub-
components of instructional materials and interactive radio,
supplementary reading, and itinerant reading program. Such
areements will provide for the participation of the States wising
direct participation in the implementation of the Project under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.2 and 4.5);
(i)   enter into collaborative agreements (Cgonv' i de Col  I
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with all
states which do not wish direct participation in the execution of
the project but have decided that the project should be
implemented in the schools under their jurisdiction (pam. 4.5);
(ji) operate and maintain, during the execution of the Project, a
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) at the MOE level and a State
or Educational Zone PCU, or Working Group in all states (Pa.
4.5); and
(k)    have all project accounts audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank. These audits would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.11).
6.2 Conditions of Effectiveness will be:
(a)   the MOE shall have entered into implementation agreements
(Convenios de Coejecucion! or collorative agreements
(Convenios de Cola-orac 6n) with at least fourteen (14) States.
At least seven of these fourteen agreements should be 3Cnveniga
de Qadecuzidn with the states of Monagas, Aragua, Sucre,
Falc6n, Bolivar, Miranda and the Distrito Federal. The
replacement of any of these states with a state of comparable
enrollment requires prior approval by the Bank (paa. 4.7);
(b)   the Borrower shall have entered into the FUNDALECTURA
Agreement, the CENAMEC Agreement, and the National
Library Agreement, for the transfer of resources (paa 4.3);
(c)   the Bank shall have received sasactory evidence showing that:
(i) the planning specialist, the prcurement speciaist; and at least
three (3) educational  ecalist of the PCU have been awontd



. 43 -
with qualifications and experience satisfctory to the Bank; (i) a
State Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been fonnally
established in each of the states which have entered into a
Cgnalo de QftaLft  and that such State PCUs have been
established in accordance with the Operational Manual; (iii) a
Worldng Group has been formally established in each of the
states which have entered into a   -neiQ ' dbc, with
organizational structure, functions, and staff satisfactory to the
Bank; and (tv) and Educational Zone PCU has been formally
established in each of the states which have not signed a
Convenigs de CMd=ci6n or a Convenio de C  Makrn, with
organizationl structure, functions and staff satisfactory to the
Bank (pam. 4.4 and 4.5);
(d)   the Bank and the MOE shall have agreed on standard bidding
documents to be utilized under the project for the procurment of
goods and services (pam. 3.14); and
(e)   the MOE shall have formaly approved the Operational Manual
(para. 4.8).
6.3 As Conditions of Disbursement:
(a)    no withdrawals shall be made unless the expenditures are
included in the annual operating plan approved by the Bank
(para. 4.11);
(b)    no withdrawals shall be made for the instructional materils
component and the school improvement grant unless MOE has
identified the targeted schools using the school census
information (para. 2.35 and 2.6); and
(c)   no withdrawals shall be made for modernizing the management
capacity of a State Education Secretariat unless the Bank and the
respective State Education Secretary have reached agreement on
an action plan based on the results and recommendations of the
management audit study (para. 2.29).
6.4 With the above conditions and assurances, the project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$89.4 million equivalent to the Republic of
Venezuela for a period of 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.



-44-
Annec 
Page I of 11
BASIC EDUCATION INDICATORS
Table 1: Comparative Education Indicators for Selectd Latin American Counties
-    out. Pp    -Bductonal -         _____ -aomatto --_-_-_______-
A%n+of+         BV=diu 
As peros of           Primaq U.           &soqay Ed.          Higher d.
TOW    FoMl         GNP      GOV.   aGo         No        Garos                     r"
ARO.M _
195             NA        NA        2.5       9.5      106        9f        54        42            27.2
1980             6.1      NA        5.6      15.1      106        94        36                      21.6
t19a             4.5      5.0       1.9       8.9       its                 74                      408
197S            368       NA        3.        NA        85        73        31        21             11.2
1980            NA        NA        4.4      253        87        72        36        16             12.6
1987            25.8     34.9       3.1      20.1       97        78        37        27             16.6
BRAZIL
1973            24.3       NA       3.0       NA        88        71        26         9             10.7
1980            253       NA        3.3       NA        99        81        34        14             £1.9
1981            22.3     23.        4,S      17.7       9S        84        38        15             10.9
CH"L
1975            NA        NA        4.1      12.0       112       94        48        34             1s.6
1980             8.9      NA        4.6      11.9       112       98         3                       132
1981             5.6       NA       3.6      15.3      102        89        74        16             17.8
1975            NA        NA        2.2      16.4       118                 39                       8.0
1980            148       NA        1.9      14.3      128        75        44                       10.6
1987            11.9      12.*      2.7      22.4      122        73        56                       13.6
rCUADOR
1973            NA        NA        3.2      25.9       101       78        39        28            26.9
1980            19.8      NA        5.6      333        113                 51                       36.5
1981            17.6      20.2      2.8      213        114                 56                      293
PARAGUAY
I1s             NA        NA        1.6      14.0      1oo        83        19        16             6.7
1980            s2.5      NA        1.5      16.4       103       87        26                       8.5
198s            11.8     14.6       1.5      16.7      101        88        29        24             8.8
PERU
1975            27.3     38.2       35       17.5       113                 46                       14.6
1980            A8.1      26.1      32       12.8       114       86        59                       19.
1981            13.0     20.1       2.4      16.4       118       87        64                      25.5
URUGUAY
1973             6.1      NA        22       £0.0      107                  60                       16.0
1980            NA        NA        2.6       9.3      106                  60                       173
8               4.6       4.1       3.1      1s3l       109       91        77                      47.8
VENEZELMA
1975            NA        NA        4.5       NA        100       81        45        35             18.1
1980            I3.       NA        4.4      14.7      109        86        41        34            214
1981            13.1      14.       3.5      16.6       110       89        54        44            265
() 1987 or geg
ISuomfm VNES) 8Wdi*huIY.arbo*k 1990
- WoMBa*,Soilb4otm  aaBu



5L oooo oooooo
|2 eocoeeeoeoooeoooooo 1 
I X"!IIIIiIi L.ooooo  FTX
tßu;0|0000000|||f X   I
.         @@|l-;Q,}00000000    . 
Ti-v,,    ElilßßSlE,  
_~~~~I -ii!Sl'S;;g



-46 -
Page 3 of 11
Table 3: Enrollment Ratios: Pre-School and Primary Education, 1990-1991
Total     Penale      Mal
PRPU-SCHOOL       Total Erollment           634812      314457    3203SS
Enrollment age 5          323907      160383    163S24
Enr. Pre-Sch age S        274173      134292    139881
Population age 5          527851      258824    269027
Grsms Enr. Ratio          120.3%      121.5%     119.1%
Net Ear. Ratio             S1.9%       51.9%      52.0%
Age Ear. Ratio             61.4%       62.0%      60.8%
______________    Total       Female       Male
PRUA,RY         Enrolment Gades 1-6      3183729     1553173   1630556
Enrorlment CGades 1-9    4052947    2018163   2034784
Enrollment ages 6-11     2713058     1345299   13677S9
Enrollment ages 6-14     3782067     1881217   1900850
Enr. Prim-Sch ages 6-11    2674749    1327136   1347613
Bur. Prim-Sch ages 6-14    3730014    1854656   187S358
Popuation ages 6-11      295669S     1450799   1S05896
; Population ages 6-14     4283624    2102482   2181142
Grades 1-6       Gross Er. Ratio            107.7%      107.1%     108.3%
Ags 6-11         Net Ear. Ratio              90.5%       91.S%      89.S%
Age Ear. Ratio             91.8%       92.7%      90.8%
Grades 1-9       Grs Ear. Ratio              94.6%       96.0%      93.3%
Ages 6-14        Net Ear. Ratio              87.1%       88.2%      86.0%
Age Ear. Ratio             88.0%       89.1%      86.9%
Source: MOE, Stasics Depa    t



-47 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 11
Table 4: Enrollment and Population by Age,
1980/81 and 1990/91
Enr ----me          -Population                              A,Mnroll. Ratios
1980t81        1990/91          198018U         1990t91         198018)         1990191
3           47439           95463          443952          540148            10.7%           17.7%
4-   135908                226867          432280          533242           31.A4%          42.5%
S          176396          323907          416925          527851           42.3%           61.4%
6          309430          436327          408201          S18829           75.8%           84.1%
7          355937          462317          400938          509067           88.8%           90.8%
8          368365          458215          394815          498696           93.3%           91.9%
9          362163          4S7966          389513          487850           93.0%           93.9%
10         3SS483           462445          385041          476727           92.3%           97.0%
11         338703           43S788          381407          465526           88.8%           93.6%
12         327100           402597          376657          454048           86.8%           88.7%
13         289606           363546          369815          442292           78.3%           82.2%
14         239290           302866          361SS0          430589           66.2%           70.3%
15          189714          227414          353661          418974           53.6%           S4.3%
16          134785          159690          345994          407082           39.0%           39.2%
17          83945            87746          337416          397531           24.9%           22.1%
18          44270            40584          327613          391517           13.5%           10.4%
19          21821            16273          317078          387744            6.9%            4.2%
20           10413            5950          306482          383731            3.4%            1.6%
21+           11148            3217          295520          379980             3.8%           0.8%
aSWLXX MOB.Etats0s Dqoutment.



- 48 -
Page 5 of 11
Table 5: Gross Enrollment Ratio by Level. 1989-90
___                 Pe4u         SWaa      seow.   PeS4ch         Bea&      Second.    Pte4cb       Ba-    Seond.
.MMl                 570615    3n14        279742    51949t   4188734    1201790         109.8%     92.4%      233%
M    u                6823      364726       30231     47006      378792     111602      146.4%     963%       27.1%
Dat deal              72013      405297     3611$      571H1      46661S     155606      136.1%    8S%         23.2%
CaoboP                39971      289237      20062     40228      322S68      96537       99"A4      89.7S     20.8%
COiedo                 7584      42044        2705      5934       47299       12214     127.8%      88.9%     22.1%
Amgua                 31017      232467      18192     34084      275214      81247       91.0%      84.5%     22.4%
Apur                   7342      63960       2963       8159       65838      17209       90.0%     97.1%      172%
guhco                 15919      113867       70S0     14520      11861S      31303      109.6%     96.05      22.5%
Falcon                21296      142753      10260     17845      145554      39S15      119.3%     98.1%      26.0%
Yoracuy               13785      8S878        5732     11043       88425      24152      124.8%     97.1%      23.7%
LaM                   39379     26S035       17333     33876      274498      77284      116.2%     96.6       22.4%
Po-tu9uswm            14092      123S76      665S      18678      147830      37648       75.4A     83.6%      17.7%
7uiA                  67664     450199      33139      56387      455129     137131      120.0%     99%        24.2%
Tabcim                21620      168399      12525     22401      186910      S4458       96.5%     90.1%      23.0%
me"                   17919      120096       8907     16216      13332S      40660      IIOS1.     90.1%      21.9%
ThJlblo               1479S      112897       8021     15180      127123      341SS       97.5%     88.8%      23.5$
ubmnaa                10373      100340      5525      14815      115863      27686       70.0%     86.6%      20.0%
A=uoatiepi            26476      199585      14936     25518     203424       55149      103.8%     98.1%      27.1%
MonuaMs               16880      120436       8042     IS836      124985      32211      106.6%     96.4A      25.0%
Sum                   16481      168757      10645     22913      182271      47228       71.9%     92.6%      22.5S%
NuevaS_               11820       56694       4426      7230       56105      16396      163.5%    101.0%      27.0%
UBolot                27964     210O09       14641     28766      225790      60088       97.2%     03.0%      24.4%
?PlDebssAacuro         4994       20018        991      3126       25550       6992      159.8%      78.3%     14.2%
TFAnn=a                2408       14770        646      2627       21014       5319       91.7%      70.3%     12.1%
Gross Enrollment Ratios in Basic Education
By Region, 1989-90
Veanmla             3871040       4188734      92.4%
Capik                770023       845407       91.1%
Ceattd               563748       645081       87.4%
Soudoetn             177827       184453       96A4%
Zai                  617242       656307       94.0%
Andes                450199       455129       98.9%
Co"ta Occident.      501732       563221       89.1%
Nodbhust             545472       566785       96.2%
GUYSan               244797       2723S4       89.9%
Saowe: MOIL Sata Deqpauinsn



-49 -
Anmex I
Page 6 of 11
Table 6: Basic Education Enrollment and Secdon by State. 1989 - 1990
PAS.MPolk                          p.vt.       TOW        Pbli    PaIW        TOW      Palmc    P&tIs   TOWSs
VO _M&               3339173      531867   3871040      128526    16564    1459         26.0      32.1    26.7
. _    w               29410-   11047?    4052            9342      3206     12548      311       343    313
Amudtu                 175617      23968    199585        6510       728      7238      27.0      32.9    27.
Arm                    62569        1391      63960       3351        54      3405      18.7      25.8    18.
Aano                  197216       35251    232467        6230      1180      7410      31.7      29.     31.4
Bruss                   95994       4346    100340        4806       138      4944      20.0      31.5    203
Bdeve                  177397      32612    210009        64E4       921      7405      27.4      35.4    28.4
Curabo                234830       54407    289237        7146      1857      9003      32.9      29.3    32.1
C*de¢                  39566        2478      42044       1884        77      1961      21.0      32.2    21.4
Falcon                 132109      10644    142753        6528       306      6834      20.2      34.     20.9
Guearo                 108730       S137    113867        47S6       168      4924      22.9      30.6    23.1
L:nk                  241419       23616    26535         9692       730     10422      24.9      324    25.4
Me"                    107591      12S05    120096        5452       330       m2       19.7      37.9    20.8
Misanda               269932       94794    364726        9205      2974     12179      29.3      31.9    29.9
Mona                   116100       4336    120436        4380       184      4564      26.S      23.6    26.4
NuEva  _               S1474        S220      56694       170S       158      1863      30.2      33.0    30.4
P     _owgua           117910       5S66     123576       S195       166      S361      22.7      34.1    23.1
Sorto                  1627S4       6003    168757        6271       168      6439      26.0      35.7    26.2
Tachara                150119      18280    168399        6780       516      7296      22.1      35A     23.1
TSIo                   107280       5617    112897        5278       165      5443      203       34.0    20.7
Yareay                 82113        3765      8s878       3236       113      3349      2S.4      333    256
7nlia                 380086       70113    450199       12614      2376     14990      30.1      29.5    30.0
TP Anm                  13901        869      14770        774        37       811      18.0      235      1.
TP DeAMuro              19646        372      20018        907        12       919      21.7      31.0    21.8
NON  MtOB, 8t  *Depe _



- so -
Antex I
Page 7 of 11
Table 77: Enrollment in Basic Education
by Aea and Sector, 1989-90
U                          R  d    ,,  S             ToWl
TO_                        30S2           79.0%          1477        1.0%       3140
Pm                         25333M         75.9%        805871       24.1%       3339173
. __ eml               1871163         3J%         370013       16%         241276
s_                       4974         MA%          41476        43.4X        971260
m_ I                     93193        8.6X%            2        12A%          106398
_atacmauus               19062        94.2%           1177       5.SX           9
-1=eft          9MI                                       gm8905     1.7%        531867
Table 8: Number of Teachers in Basic Education
With or Without Cerdfication, 1989-90
_________             CaUe            S      C    ed          S        TOWal     S      .udents    Swrb
TOWl                  146949      80.4%       3591       19.6%      182860      4402907        24.1
PkblI.                123430      S03%          30319    19.7%      153749      3871040        25.2
Idaml              9224       85.4%         15814    14.6%      10809       224176         2.7
Sam                2601       663%          13400    335%        40008       971260        24.3
MUahipal            J617      80.4%           881    19.6%        4498       106398        23.7
Aulsuasema           960      81.1%           224    18.9%        1184        20239        17.1
PIvs2519  80.8%          59       19.2%       291         S316          18.3
m       t                                                           -=                  =:



-51-
Annex 1
Page 8 of 11
Table 9: Evolution of Enrollment in Basic Education by Sector, 1980 - 1989
A-al                        An"l                         A-al
1980      %        1983       *  Orowth        1986       5  Growth        1989        5     mrowth
._  _ _ _ _ _  , _ _ _ _      _                         R-,e             :t., , -. R at.
TotW   _       3158466   100%    3368223   100%    2.2%    3663128   100%    2.8%   3871040    100%             1.9%
=RS j-lPubr---  j   275659$  17.31%  W 2940959  87.0% 2.2%S  $188234  170%    2.7%    3339173   89.3%     16%
National       1914311   60.6%    2022794  60.1%      1.9%    2'53361   58.8%    2.1%    2241276   57.9%       13%
Stat           718149  22.7%       795471   23.6%    32SS      92067  24.6%    4.3%       971260   25.1%       2.5%
Muniald       115190   3.7%       11S340   3.4%    0.0%       121082   3.3%      1.6%     106398    2.8%     4.2%
Autonohm         8945    0.3%        7354   0.2%    .6.3%       11724   0.3%   16.8%       20239    O.$%    20.0%
Pvate           401871   12.7%     427264   12.7%    2.1%      474894  13.0%    3.66    531867   13.7% -, 3.8%
Table 10: Evolution of thie Number of Sectionsg in Basic Education by Sector
1980 - 1989
Annual                       Anuald                     A-al
Gowth                        Gowth G(owth
_ _1980 _  %      193         X       Raft      1986       %       Rato    1989        X      ARt
Tatal            93883    100%    101400    100%        2.6%    120793    100%       6.0%   145090    100%       6.3%
Public           82763   88.2%      88741   87.S%       2.4%    103999   86.1%       5.4%   128526   88.6%       73%
Nationl         SS763   59.4%      59194   58.4%       2.0%     70954   S8.7%       6.2%    77172   53.2%      2.8%
State             NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA
MuWicial          NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA    NA
NA   NA    NA   NA    NA    NA   NA    NA   NA   NA   NA
Aumom         I
PtlVat.          11120   11.8%      12659   12.S%       4.4%     16794   13.9%       9.9%    16S64   114%    -0.5%
) VACUOas m cu  R rafmed by    dig thoanaa anig th m  gmde within a schow..
Sourc: MOE, Staistics Depa_men.



52 -
Page 9 of 11
Table 11: Evolution of Student/Secton Ratio in Basic Education by Sector,
1980 - 1989
1980      1983    Grw           1986    Grow       1989      Gow
_      _           _    _     __                                 R     - -            Ret
TOW                    336       33.2     -0.4%        30.3    -3.%       26.7      -4.2%
PU                    33                   0 334  4.2%  30.7    -2.6%     26.0       -S.4%
Natloii             34.3      34.2      0.2%         30.3    -3.9%      29.0      -1.5%
Stt                  MA        NA         NA          NA        NA       NA         NA
MUniip               NA        NA         NA          NA        NA       NA         NA
Anu _oi              NA        NA         NA         NA        NA        NA         NA
l vat                 36.1      33.8      -23%         28.3    -5.7%      32.1       4.3%



Table 12: Enrollment Rates by Age, Sex, and Poverty Level
1989                               _ _ _  _ _ _  _
Bottom 10%        Extremely      Criticaiy Poor     Non - Poor         Total
Poor
Female    Male  Female    Male  Female    Male  Femtale    Male  Female    Male
Urban
Areas
(Ages)
0-3       5.2%     1.4%    6.4%     4.0%     5.0%    4.5%     6.7%     4.6%    6.0%   4.44%
3-6      56.9%    45.5%    56.2%    49.2%    65.3%    58.4%    82.3%    74.8%    67.2%  '60.2%
7-10     92.2%    92.2%    94.3%    93.6%    97.4%   94.6%   97.8%    97.7%    96.4%   95.2%
10-14    90.8%    87.1%    98.1%    86.8%    90.6%    93.1%   92.5%    94.5%   91.5%   91.6%
15-19    53.9%    64.3%    54.9%    58.0%    59.1%   57.1%   59.3%    60.7%    58.3%   58.7%
20-24     18.3%    21.1%    23.2%    21.0%    21.5%    13.9%    34.6%    32.5%   28.0o%   24.7%
25-45     6.9%    0.9%    6.5%    3.3%    6.1%    3.1%   11.8%    6.4%    9.0%    4.9%
45 +                                                  1.0%    1.2%    0.0%    0.16%    0.3%
Total     39.3%   40.6%   38.8%   40.6%    36.8%   35.4%    31.8%    30.0%    35.1%   34.3%
Ruml
Areas
(Ages)
0-3       1.5%    2.0%    1.4%    2.4%               5.5%                      0.6%    3.4%
3-6      37.2%   41.7%   37.5%    40.8%    62.4%    26.6%    32.3%    65.8%   43.8%   38.6%
7-10     75.3%    77.0%    76.1%    78.2%    92.7%   90.9%   100.0%   100.0%    84.7%   85.8%
10-14    74.2%   65.5%   74.9%   66.3%   76.5%   71.4%   87.1%   80.9%   77.2%   70.2%
15-19    48.3%    16.0%   46.4%   17.6%   27.9%   29.1%   27.7%   16.1%   35.6%   2049%
20-24     9.7%    16.0%    8.6%   13.8%    4.7%    3.7%    0.6%    3.4%    5.0%    6.0%
25-45      1.6%             1.5%                               1.1%    1.7%    0.8%    0.6%
45 +
Total     33.7%   29.7% 133.1%   29.6% 127.2%    23.1% 121.2%    19.0%           .284   24.6%



-54 -
Page 11 of 11
Table 13: Indicators of Internal Efficiency
If                1_I        0.2         03         0.4        qs            0,6          O..        0as         0s9
COMaOn  .    67.5%         76.4%       76.2%      74.2%        71.6%        71A .A4%        %       727%        87.0%
Ii W=hJ         29.8%      20.1%       19.4%       19.%S       19.2%        19.6%        34.6%      25.1%       13.0%
IkbOPOt         2.7%        3Si%        4.4%       6A4%         9.2%         9.0%        13.8%       44%        0.0%
Flow of a Hypothetical Sudeat Cohort
Ye*r    0.1   G2        0)    0.4       0_    G_6    a7    0G8 0q      9 q    i Syatxa     randuats
I    1000                                                                      1(XNJ
2     298    675                                                                 973
3      89    337      516                                                       941
-4     26 -18         357    3"                                                  904
S       8     44      167    349      292                                       858
6       2      14      66    195      315    209                                800
7       1      4       23     88      205    266    149                         737
8       0       1       8     35      104    199   242       77                 666
9       0      0        3     13       46    114    226    142      56          400           49
10       0      0        1      4       18     55    159    149    111           498          96
*11           0      0        0      1       7      24     95     117    23           367          107
12       0      0        0      0       2      10     S0      76    101          239          88
13       0      0        0      0        1      4     24      43     68          140           59
'-             14       0      0        0      0        0      1     It      22     40           7n           35
is       0      0        0      0       0       0      S      It    22            38           19
16       0      0        f      0       0       0      2       5     11           18            9
17       0      0        0      0       0       0      1       2      5            8            4
t8       0      0        0      0       0       0      0       1      2            3            2
19       0      0        0      0       0       0      0       0      1            1            1
20       0      0        0      0        0      0      0       0      0             1           0
_itudeiitYm             1425    1203   1I41   1078      990    882    963    646    540           8868         470
Promoted           =    962    919      869    800      709    630    497    470    470           6325
Repeater                425    242      221    209      190    173    333    149       70         2013
Dropo.                   St38    42      50     69       91     79    133      27      0           530
Avg  Ycap per Cade        1.5    1.3      13     1.3     1.4    1.4    1.9    1.4    1.1            IA
Over-Aged StudeltS by Grnde
0_        G G2       G 3       0_4        G           0 G_6      G 7        C8          C 9
Oe Year o Mre          29.8%      43.9%      54u%       63.6%      70.6%      76.3%      84.5%      88.1%      89.6%
Two Yearst rmb           8.9%      15.9%      23.5%      31,2%      38.8%      46.1%      59.4%      66.0%      69.1%9
Tlb=  YW  1r M           2.6%       53%        8.8%      13.2%      18.1%      23.6%      36.0%      42.9%      46.3%
SUMMARY RESULTS
6Grad           9 God
Peroe.tagb Mao GraCuate                                                            1          63.0%          47.0%
pragoaf Eatd horst who  dradte wsle eRating                                                   14.9%           4.9%
Parea  of  adue. wio Gadue wtwo Rqpea                                                         23.7%           10.4%
Saude Yea  Per radut                                                                           10.7            18.9
Awrag.ta h  er6YeY   oi Primtry Educton                    |                                    6.7             8.9
Avep Number of Grde Coeted                                                                      4.9             6.3
_     _    _    _    _    _    _    _    __I__1.8                                                               2.1
S:ro Mt.o eaema,



Pog l of 2
DESCRITION AND ORGANIZATIONAL CHAITS OF THE TMIRY OF
EDUCATION, m REGIONAL OmCES, THE STATE EDUCATION
SECRETARATS,AND THE MUNIMCIPAL SCHOLS
1.   The Ministr of Eductatin (MOE) and the State Secrearlats, am the pricpal proides
of primary educaton services in Venezuela. nho MOE, accountable to the Preident, conls
32.6% of pnma  schools with enrollme  t otg 2,309,08 throout thecountry. in
turn, the State Secretariats which are accountable to the state governors, control 38.9% of
primary schools with enrollments of 1,059,837 throughout the 23 stt, the federal capital,
and the territories of Delta Amacura and Amazonas. Primary oducation is abo delivered
through 398 municipal primary schools with enollments of 109,987 whdch are accountable to
local mayors and which tend to be located in peripheral ares. The  are also 52
autonomous primary schools (sustained by parastatal insttuto) with enrollments of 21,886,
1,977 combined prmary schools (which are parially supported by the Nadona
Government), and 1,829 private primary schools with ewrllments of 97,178.
2.   The MOE in addition to overseeing the day to day administration of its nework of
national schools sets educational policies, strategies, and norms for the whole of the
education sector while also carrying out planning and budgedng for all its schools. In each of
the 23 states the MOE has a regional office, or Educational Zone (Zona Educadva),
responsible for general coordination and allocation of funds. Spevision of MOE schols is
the responsibility of Educational Districts (Distritos Educativos) which are an intmediary
stucre between the Educational Zones and the schools.
3.   The day to day io ns of the MOE are coordinated through the Generad
Subcetariat that is divided into five Gener Directorates (i) Her Education; (ii)
Administrative Senrices; (ii) Labor/Union Affairs; (iv) Basic and Secondary Educadon; and
(v) Special Programs. In addition, there are eight senior staff supporing  meas reporting
directly to the Minister (i) Teacher Tlining; (i) Social Benefits; (i) Planning and
Progrmming; (iv) Personl; (v) Legal Affahirs; (vi) Comptroller; (vii) Public Reati; and
(vii) International Relations.
4.   Besides the above-mentioned structr, the Ministry transfers funds to seven legally
autonomous institutions, most notably among them, the National Center for the Teacn of
Science (CENAMEC), the Foundation for the Promotion of Reading (FUNDALECTURA)
and the National Library.
5.   At the state level, State Scetriats comply with National Con  L aws which
regulate the curriculum, calendar, and organiton of baic and secondary education. State
education authorities, howeer, have the authority to: (a) hire, promote, trsfe, and fire
persomd contracted by its state educational stem; (b) negotate slaries and frine beneits
of all teaching and non-teaching persomnnel; and (c) physically maintain schos.
6.   Municpal schools form a very small pecentp of all schools. Thdr finds are
received through the Educatonal Zo   although they hav autonomy to hire and fir
personnel, and suerv  the quality of their schools.



- 56-                     &zAneac2
Page 2 of 2
Table I - ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF TME
MJNJS1Y OF EDUCACTION THM STATE EDUCATION
SECRTAIATS, AND TE MLICIPALrYES
¢ _                    1 1.......
LOO MAI.                         * 1 
4 ,}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.S.A
Affain  "we~-~~~~~~~~~~uremsintfw
Oaftoosondw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fflotl iuu
. ._               .        .  l_ .     
-== _ - _ _ = _l 4                      I.N.
-  =o-
r,-   -1     ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o. idtasto
SELh ~     e N



-57
Page 1 of 4
EDUCATION SECTOR BUDGET AND FINANCE
1.   b nomin  terms total education ependis in Venezuela increased coniderably
bdtwee 1984 and 19M2, atan aveage a       rate of 34 pernt.  ovese nass
were mainly to lktp up with inflation, such that in real tems spendig increased by an
averag of le  hn 2 percent per year (see Figure 1). Moreover, for 1992 total eduaion
spending in real terms acually declined. But viewing the education budget overal dsguises
more significant changes in spending over time by level and by type. This section analyzes
these changes in greater detail.
Figr 1: MOE Expditwes in Coa  1987 Bovares, 1984 - 1992, by Levd
MOE Expenditures In Real Terms
40
gi    ~In   4M  4M 474          :m I       M
i    U
0 ate t ba. * wowp A Total
5 Ependiture on cental administraton, specid  educadon and adult
education have been excluded from the graphic.



- S8 -
Page 2 of 4
Education Spending By Level
2. In all years from 1984 to 1992 higher education consumed a greater percentage of the
total education budget than any other level, rnging from 31 to 41 percent. Basic education
(with approximately 70 percent of total enrollment) accounted for just 15 to 27 percent of
tot  education spending during this same period (see Figure 2).G While basic oducation
spending increased by 30 percent in real terms between 1991 and 1992, this Is simply the
result of a recently negotiated salary increase for MOE employees. Venezuela thus wmains
wel behind all other Latin American countries in terms of the priority given to baic
education finamg relatve to higher levels.
Figure 2: Basic versus Higher Educafion Expenditues in Venezla, as a Pctage of Tot
Education Spending, 1984 - 1992
MOE Expenditures by Level, 1984 - 1992
44 
4, 
34
24-
24
tti le    ;  t;  %         m
4.
6     Note tbat for 1991 and IM9 dIhe MOE's epnditume for the Beg A_mntia won
not included as idcao spending, as tbis is n aly a ca* hsFer to poor fimulies
mades dmtogh doi education bWre If it is included, bigher oducadoa´ seding as a
petengsof totat education speDding in 1991 and IM9 woldd fid to 26 and 24
pomt, respectively, while basi educatoa dhuns would veptesnt just 9 and
14 percent, mpecSvely, of tota education speding in 1991 anld 1M9.
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-59-
Anex 3
Page 3 of 4
3.   In fact, between 1984 and 1992 basic education spending in real terms declined at an
average annual rate of about 4 percent. In 1991 spending for basic education in constant
1987 bolivares was just 47 percent of basic education expenditures in 1984. Note tuat this
occurred at the same time as enrollments were increasing by an average of 2.3 percent per
year, translating into even greater deras  in per student spending. During this same
period,  spend   for higher and pre-school education decreased just slightly (average annual
rate of 1 percent), while expenditures for secondary education declined even more than those
for basic education (average annual decrease of 5 percent). Thus it can be said that
education spending at all levels has declined in real terms over the last eight years.
4.   Paradoxically, tot education spending in real terms has increased over the last eight
years (at an average annual rate of 1.5 percent). This raises the issue of the increasing
importance of so-called 'Other Spending", which increased between 1984 and 1992 at an
average annual rate of more than 35 percent and in 1991 consumed more than 60% of total
Ministry of Education expenditures. This category includes administration, the Beca
Alimentaria, the National Training Institute (INCE), and physical infastucture (;EDE).
Indeed, it is fair to say that these non-teaching, non-classroom expenditures are crowding out
financing for the lower education levels.
Education Spending By Type
5.   At the same time as basic education expenditures overall have declined, the proportion
of basic education spending for personnel has remained extremely high, varying from 90 to
98 percent. In 1992 total financing for basic education infrastructure, teaching materials and
other non-salary items represents just 5 percent of the total basic education budget. 80
percent of this non-salary financing is for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, so that
govenment financing for educational materials (mcluding textbooks, library books, science
equipment, and general supplies) accounts for just 1 percent of total basic education spending
in 1992. In US dollar terms this is equivalent to about US$3.85 million, which translates
into less than US$1 per student. In fairness. however, teacher salaries in real terms have
also declined drastically over the last seven years, so that all types of basic education
spending can be said to be underfinanced (see Figure 3).



-60 -
Annex 
Page 4 of 4
Summary
6.   The trends in education spending over the last eight years in Venezuela are not
encouraging. Basic education expenditures have suffered senous cutbacks, and financing for
educational nmrils is practically non-existent. Meanwhile, spending on adminisraion ad
higher education has remained extremely high by Latin American (and global) standards. In
1992 the govermnent begun to address this problem with an increas in real terms for basic
education finacins, and a corrqe ding deease for higher educatio.
Figuw 3: bidex of Basic Educadon Expenditues by Type,
r Constnt 1987 Dolivas, 1985 - 1992
von, Real sasic Education Expenditures
> .1~~~~~~~~~~.
I~~~~I.I
0.S~~~~~~



- 61 -
Page 1 of 4
PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY OF EDUCATIONAL MATERIAILS FOR BASIC
EDUCATION IN ENEZUELA
1   This annex describes cunt government policy with. respect to educational materals,
Xt- vailability of such educationa materials in the classroom, and the major issues which
need to be resolved in order to improve the provision of these cost-effective inputs. It is
worth noting that the same government policies regarding textbooks apply to other
educationa maters, and that supplementary educationil materials are even scarcer than
textbooks in Venezuelan classrooms.
Current Policy
2. The MOE has drastically reduced its role in textbook provision to schools from 3.7
nmllion in 1978-79 to 424,000 in 1983-84 and only 134,000 in 1989-90, approximatly one
book for every 17 students. State Secetarats and Municipalities have also significantly
reduced their role in textbook provion. With the exception of MOEs small textbook
distibution progrm, the private sector is responsible for all textbook publication,
producton, distribution and retail. The MOE progam covers less than 3 percent of students
enroLed at the basic education level (about 3.85 million), which means it is the responsibility
of parents to buy textbooks for their children in local bookstores. Unforunately, few parens
can afford to do so, or else they believe the quality of the textbooks sold is too low to be
worth the epense. The result is little or no use of textbooks at the basic education level,
especially in rural and marginal urban areas where textbook availability was estimated on a
recenit study sponsored by the MOE at around 34 percent.
3. A sample purchase of 10 textbooks in Caracas (selected as those most commonly sold)
showed a price range of between 200 and 720 Bs. (roughly US$3-1 1). In all cases the
cheapest book was the highest seller. As was later detrmined in the Ministry of Educaion,
8 of these 10 textbooks had been reviewed and rejected by the MOE as being of uable
quality. Only 2 of the books had received the seal of approval from the MOE. Results form
the above-mentioned survey indicate that almost 50% of the teachers do not utlize the MOE
approved list because they do not want to or do not know of it A large majority (52%) of
teachers used boos that children have available at home.



- 62 -
Ann4
Page 2 of 4
4.   This highlights the fact that government "standard setting" and regulation of private
sector textbooks is not worldng as it should. In 1991 only 6% of the books submitted to the
MOE for review and certification were approved. But whether or not the MOE approves the
textbook, it can (and is) sold in bookstores. In theory, it is the responsibility of each school
director -to ensure that only  MOE-approved textbooks are used in the classroom; in practice
directors are happy with whatever textbooks students can obtain because textbooks are so
scarce. Thus there is -no gantee of quaiy with government standards; it might ev  be
said that because publishers delberely develop inexpensive textbooks, the present policy
encourages low quality textboos.
Coverage and Effectiveness
5. All textbooks reviewed explicitly follow the MOE's Study Program (Programa de
Estudios) and cover all the curriculum objectives spelled out therein. Furthermore, the better
textbooks present activities for students to do in their notebooks, although the use of the
textbook with other teaching materials is not made clear. In fairness, no other teaching
materials currently exist in most basic education classrooms so the textbooks may simply
reflect reality rather than shortsightedness.
6.   Because a range of textbooks was purchased from 8 different publishers, it was not
possible to estimate the degree of overlap between the textbooks for different grade levels.
However, it is fair to say that because MOE curriculum objectives overlap each grade,
textbooks are likely to do so, as well. On the other hand, because no classroom uses the
same teatbook (textbook acquisition being a somewhat haphazard process), it is impossible to
determine the overall effectiveness of any of the textbooks purchased. Indeed, teachers are
actually forbidden by law to specify which textbook their students should buy, which
practically guarantees a potpoum of textbooks and makes it difficult for the teacher to use
the textbook for exposing the lesson of the day and/or assigning homework.
Physkal PresentatIon
7.   The pages of the better textbooks attract the learne, with apopria  colorfid
illustrations, digams, and drawings. The covers are attractive although not as sturdy as
they should be. The drawback, of course, to these better texts is they cost significantly more
than low quality books and so are rarely purchased. While the paper of the textbooks could
be of better quality, it appears that high-quality textbook paper is extremely scarce in
Venezuela, such that it is typically imported (with high tariffs) and results in books which are
too expensive for the market they serve.



-63 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
Pedagogk Style
8.   Itn is difficult to say if the textbooks are written at the conceptual level of tte avage
basic educaton stdent, because the range in conceptual levwl between poor ruraI and
mfiddlec   urban students is so great as to make 'averages' hard to estimate. However, it
can be said that topics seem to be arranged in an order which assists leaing, beas they
contbkn to fte MOE's curriculum objecives for each subject and grade. Presumably, this
also means the book is designed such that aU the curriculum objectives can be accomplished
in a school year, although interviews with teachers suggest that this rarely happens.
9.   The better textbooks reviewed do attempt to relate the subject matter (and curriculum
objective) to local conditions. Examples of this are community surveys students are
encouraged to do regarding types of food grown and sold locally; the location of local
hospits, police and fire stations; the ldnds of pollution (air, water, soil) apparent in the
students localty; etc. Whether or not students actually do this is another question; because
so few students have texooks (often teachers lack any textbook or curricuium guide
themselves) they are rarely referred to.
Teachers' Guides
10.  Th is  ies the impornt point that because of (a) the prolifeaon of low quality
textb sold and (b) the scarcity in the classroom even of tese low quality books, no
teahers surveyed used any ind of textbook teachers' guide; indeed, there would be little
sense in doing so. About one-thrd of the teachers surveyed had no access to the official
MOE Programa de Estudios' and "Manual Docente", leaving them with no additional
reources than what they had acquired by training and experience to pla and conduct their
casses. Since the "Programaw and Manual" were produced on a one-time basis several
years ago by the MOE has asked the Inter-American Develcpment Bank to finance a project
to re-print and distribute theem on a national scale.



-64 -
Afnex 4
Page 4 of 4
S_umm
11.  At leat fom a first glance, acceptable quality textbooks are available in Veneula,
but not In the claoom. Furthermore, meetngs between World Bank and MOE officals
and -the 12 -ajor publishing flrms in Venezuela suggest that there is consideable itest on
their port in developing bet  quality textbooks, if the publishers believe there will be a
ukt   for-such t (no such market exists now offficient sitojus*- an invement in
a new high-qulity book). That is, it make more sense for the MOE to specify the standards
of he textbook it will purase (with financng from the Wodd Bank prqect) and let the
private sector absorb the development costs of any new textbooks, rather than have the MOB
borrow finds at IBRD rates for the same objecdves.



-65 -
Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY FOR THE TEACHER TRAWING COMPONENT
1.   The short trm objective of the in-service teacher taining component is to promote the
effective use of texbook, reading books and non-printed tehing materials by ptimary
school teachr  The longtrm  obtecves are to promote the use of ative leaning
methodologies at the classroom level and to help develop a permanent institutional capacity
for inve teacher taning at the state level.
2.   Currently the MOE has neither a national strategy for in-sece teacher traig nor
the capability to implement such a stategy. To ovemome this limitation tie project provides
for the creation of a national system for in-service teacher training based on the cunrent
capabilities of existing universities and teacher training institutes and to avoid the creation of
a new MOE srcture. The role of the MOE would be to desig guidelines, prepare terms of
reference, and evaluate the quality of the training workshops that would be contracted out, on
a competitive basis, to local (state-based) higher education institutions. Since the MOE lacks
this capability, the project would help develop them through technical assistance and training.
3. To respond to different teaching conditions encountered by teachers working in rural
and urban areas, the project includes the design of different sets of guidelines and worlkhops
for single-room and rural school teachers teaching in incomplete"7 schools and for urban
and rural school teachers teaching in 'complete- schools.
4. The teacher training schedule has been planned to coincide with the distribution of
textbooks and teaching matrials to give the opportunity to teachers to get hands on
expedence with the new materials that they will be using with their students.
7    Incomplet schools are pnmary schools teaching less than six grades.
Complete schools are primary schools teaching all six grades.



*66s
AD= 5
Page 2 of 3
Table 1: Total Number of Teacher Traing Workshops
t___________I____   Yeau I    Yew 2    Yea 3    Year 4    Year 5   TOTAL
Direcotof Scbo  ColCua             0        38         0         0         0       38
Rual S    on0                                0        23         0         0       23
Rual Teacwh                        10        0       259       259       333      861
-it-and2ndGrA        1.                    8$52-      3750                 0     1,24
3rd Grade                          0         0       171       171       226      S68
4th and Sthrad                     0         0       321       321       427    100
6th Grad                           0         0         0        141      321      462
Spanish7-8-9                       0         0         0        66       1SO      216
Math784.                           0         0         0        66       iso      216
Naural Scences 74-9                0         0         0        66       1SO      216
Social Sciences 74-                0         0         0        66       150      216
TOTAL WORK2OPS  ,2                         890      1,149     1,156     1,"7    5,127
Table 2: Number of Teachers to be Trained
Year 1    Year 2  | Year 3 | Yea 4    Year I   TOTAL
TEACHERS PROM SINGLE-ROOM AND INCOMPLETE SCHOOLS
DiosCoofSchmool cer              9        856        o         0 j       0      865
RuralSuimrviuora                 10        0       358         0         0      Ms
Rural Teaher,s                 250         0     6232       6,232    8,060   20,774
TEACHERS PROM URBAN AND RURAL COMPLETE SCHOOLS
1i and 2nd Grade               37S    17,033     7,460         0         0   24,868
3rd Grade                        0         0      3,440     3,441    4,54S   11,426
4th and Sdh Grade                0         0      6,435     6,435    8,572   21,442
6thGrade                         0         0         0      2,796    6,467    9,263
Spanish 74-9                     0         0         0      1,352    3,005    4,3S7
Moth_78_                         o0        0         0      1,352    3,005    4,357
NaVand Skicsio   7-o9       _    0         0         0      1,3S2    3,005    4,357
Socid Sd________ _0                        0         0      1,352     3,005    4,357
TOrA.L TlAC M           S        644    178        23,925    24,312    39,64  106,4
.= .



- 67 -
AnneC S
Page 3 of 3
Table 3: Total Number of Teacher Training Workshops by State
Year 1    Year 2     Yoar 3    Year 4    Yea S   TOTAL
I-D.FEDERAL                                 o 80      91        94       168       43
2-ANZOATEGUl                      0        45         56         55      100       256
3- R                              $        . .                    .      . .        . 5  14   ..:  26  38  it
4-ARkGUA                          0        54         61         62      109       286
5-BARINAS                         0        26         40         41       63       170
6-BOLIVAR                         0        46         59         59      104
7-CARABOBO                        0        65         71         74      125         5
8-COJEDES                         0        13         17         17       23        70
9-FALCON                          5        31         49        53        82       220
10-OUARICO                       0         29         39        38        66       172
11-LARA                           0        63         84        82       135       364
12-MERIDA                        0         27         45        46        73       191
13-MIRANDA                        5        74         86        85       147       397
14-MONAGAS                        5        27         40        39        65       176
15-N. ESPARTA                     0        12         15         15       23        65
16-PORTUGUESA                     0        31         44        43        68       186
17-SUCRE                          0        43         57        56        93       249
18-TACHIRA                       O         37         56        58        92       243
19-TRUJILLO                      0         30         46        46        76       1
20-YARACUY                        0        25         28         30       45       128
21-ZULIA                          0        106       118        116      197       537.
22-AMAZONAS                       0         6          9         11        7        33
23-D.AMACURO                      0         6         10         10        8        34
TOTAL                            25       890      1,149      1,lSC    1,907     5,127



68-
Page 1 of 3
STrDENT ASSESSMNT EXPERIENCES AND IbPEMENATION STRATEGY
FOR THE COMPONENT
1.   Venezuela has had hee isolated exPeiences with educationa tsting for monitoring
atonal achievement. (Table I of this annex summarizes main chareristics of the
experiee.) Hswcver, at thm  experiences fulted on institutional, technical and
disseminion grounds. The experiences failed on institutional grounds because none of the
experiences were ever institutized nor was effort put into building national capaity for
assessment. 'he lack of attention to these issues limited possles for continuity and
capacity to monitor trends over time. Technicaly, the expeienc  suffered various flaws Of
which four are especially troublesome. First, a norm-referenced test was incorrectly
interpreted as a criterion refeenced test. Second, the number of items per test was not large
enough to adequately cover the content objectives that were to be tested. Third, the
psychometric analysis of the tests and the statistical analysis of the results was of extemely
low quality (e.g. in two cases only descriptive statistics were presented). Fourth, two
expiences used small and poorly designed samples which inhibited significant analysis on
sub-populations. None of the experiences diseminated their results widely. in two cases, the
dissemination was restricted to higher officials of the MOE and in one case, dissemination
was prohibited by orders of the Directors Coundl of CENAMEC.
2.   Venezuela has also had experience with intemational assessments. Coordinated by the
UPEL, Venezuela participated in IEA's Reading Literacy Study (RL), for which data was
collected during 1990 and 1991. The instruments used included a reading test, background
questonnaires for students, teachers, schools and a national case study questionnaire. UPEL
is presently undertaking analysis of the Venezuela data and will be preparing reports on
stuet achievement and teacher and school c istis. Unfortunately, these analyses are
not relational, lack stadstical accuracy and depth and have received inufficient
dissemination." Furthermore, Venezuelans have been disappointed by the fact that no other
Latin American country participated, thus inhibiting usel compaisons.
3.   These exprinces, in spite of their problems, nevertheless reflect the interest and
caacity of Venezuela to develop a national assessment system. The capacity, however, is
dispersed throughout different ornizations such as universities and research orgaiza.'
The MOE alone does not have the in-house capacity to develop and efficiently manage a
national assesment systen without the technical and administrative assistance of other
Venezuelan educational institutions. It lacks an experienced, highly skilled, stable and
interdisciplinary group to cary out the different tasks involved in the process.
8      e report oan suent  ievement can be foumd m LAC Pject Pes: Arndo
Maodes (1992), Los NMwla de Comprewidn en la ecw4&a deledlaie vnXzokno
de la edumdc6n bdsica: d coo de kw etd&la de cato y novno grdos.
TMo presentado par el ascenso a Ia categora do protsor ta.
9    A ge   and p iny evalation of do capcty of various insitions to ca
out    difoetent ts of a nati oal  t systm an be foud in LAC Proe
PDes: Bk to Office Report: Misson to Venewela, July 13-24, 1992.



- 69-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
-         l  -l !  -- l   - - t- ; -- -
U'
X it i  iFi  J1
SIfj 1Lii 1



-70-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Table 2 - Veneel's Proposed National Assessment System
GENERA          .          Phoram Mgt.           Te MOB Co" ad volaOa Ua Mi be P                        for w gwam          t lo
INFORMATION                                     su       (e. tet                d I b     e                   nd              esyt. An
o r   _ml               Intttin,f be amt   lmIo bob claaeb of aordnh aad
ma gteat dewelopt (titality), da  procSn  (cmpatioa
Yr.         |        1993-1994: Plot 3rd grade; 1994-1995: Natonal admiIron for 3d gade and pilot for th grade; 199S-
1996; Nationa admnstaIn for 6ft grd a  pio for nh  grade  1996997: NDSlSd  Wittiol
--___.-___   fbrtioth grdand   t:r3rd;l997 W99&Nar 3rd de  nd pilothnsIh grae
e   Provide periodi, valid and reliable informPat  o      prors towards national achievemen gol (and
_ _ _________         _   oI*Jeye               factors associated w ith achieveme) in order to Infam educol dwislow.for basic education.
DETAILS OF DESIGN          Grades               3,6 and 9 grade
.                        | ~~~~~laev   fimohi8t  1-M) NW Mob
N                    To be ddemined afte coletn iformtion an carrying out detailed aneai of sanple design. It is
tImated  to be appromatly 30,000 students for 3rd grade, 22,000 fo 6  grad ad 12,000 for 9
j ~        ~_                   _          g1ade
Behavioral becIv    Knowledge and those othes that are contemplatd in the present curriular program for echb subject at the
It type     |        Mulipl-choice with two open 1nded uesto  for  gage.
* of It.             40 for each type of Instent.
St____d_a     __    Content. Administrationan Scorig
.'.  Relce         |Norm-ferenced duings te fir admidation but dui fAu  administrations nt  wiU
be combined with cterin-rferncd utst   ci                 secnions will aemp to measure
achievemen in specific ara th  wer idnified a paticlry lw-achievement 1a  in the norm-
.'                                  |~~~__ _ __ _   refrn e    rets".
Suppnentay           Informatio     charactrstic of: tudea, tache, school adminrtors, ad   schools. Schl inforwAto
Info_ madion         wil include physical char ics, organladlona style, commu    relay tion, nd administrative type.
DETAILS ON                 Tet dloted            Y
ADMINIRATION AND
AiNALYSIS                  Rdabl  ad             Yes.
'alidy   -Usis
Aalyds and           0 Optica sanne  wil be used to speed date procesing process.
fibnber nesam        * Tborough pqycometric anlysis of t ad static  analyis of rsul.
* Evaluations  asearc on difrent testing methodologies (e.g. experimentation with different item
* PovWide dde diske  to anyone inetd in caring out Arer anlyses. For example, &cresarr de
wacdn y Zma Educahw   l receiew their own copy of the date in order to carry out furthe analysis
of thir area.
DETAILS ON                 promoti  tet          Actiities will be carried out that will sensitze the education conmnunity ad the public in genra of the
DISSEMINATION AND          _                     maning and Iportance of the nationl assessmt.
INFORMATION uSE            To wbom               Cena  autorie, Zns EdwadWvs, Diricts, SectooDIro, Swecdade Educcidn, School,
disse|inated         Cansdad edwcdva 0pent's asociaon), univ.rsities, rearh istiuons, gnyos sectords, genead
_______________ ___   |pubLic.
Hlow and wben o      Diffeten rpots will be ppard  for different audienc and seminars will be carried out in diffelren
_s5enduadaducatona regions. Dissminat  pres wil be caied out Immedi_ ey after final andys is cid out
(from Sep. '94- Feb. 9
Evauai  of           In 1996-1997an evalatio of the dimitio sysm's effect will be carred out and in 1997-1998an
lafm    o  ln s      evalution of he  sems mpt wil b. done.



-71 -
Anne 7
Page 1 of S
STRATEGY FOR IPROJECT  IMPIEMENTATION
1.   Project coodination wil be  onsibilit of the Ministry of Bducation (MOEC, which
for ha purpo  will maintain a Project Coodinaton Unit(PU) ccounutble to the M ste
of Educadon. The PCU main fumcdon will be to coordinte project activities and to assure
that all prt components are implemented in acordanm  wit prescrbd -technicat and
legal requirements stipulated in the loan agement signed between the Bank the GOV, and in
the opaonal manual. The main project implementing agencies will be the co-exting
states tirough the State Education Secretariats (SES), the MOB, through six line units and
he legally autonomous institutions. The MOE line agencies with project implenio
responsibilities are: the Division of Basic and Secondary Bducation (BAS), the Division of
Administration and Services(ASE), the Division of Systems and Oa n (OS), the
Research Unit (RUN), the Unit of Control and Evaluation (CEV), and Libray Services
(LIB). The three autonomous instiutions paticing  in project implementaion are: the
National Center for the Teaching of Science (CENAMEC), the Natidoal Foundation for the
Promotion of Reading (FUNDALECURA) and the National IUbrary.
2. In order to describe the main responsibilities of the different implenenting agencies
involved in the project, and to help understand how the agencia relat to each other, fte
project implementation cycle was divided into five different funcdons: (i) definition and
production of technical specifications, standards and guideines; ( i) pt; (iii)
selection of goods, such as textbooks, and services, such as consultants; (v) logiscal
support for implementing advities in the field; and (v) monitoing, control and eauation of
project activides.
3.   The SESs will provide logistical support for the implementation of all componts
except for the reform of teacher training. Also the SESs will participate in the procurement
of: (i) consultant services for teacher taining; and (ii) consultant sevies and equipment for
the management information system, the project management, and the modernizton of
management components. During the life span of the project the SESs will have main
responsibility for selecting textbooks at the school level. After the second year of textbook
procurement, and conditioned to the results of a mid-term evaluation, the SES could assume
direct responsibility for textbook Procum t. The SESs will also be resosible for
managing the school improvement grant component including evaluating propoa, selecting
schools, and monitoring procurement responsibilities of schools. Fialy, the SESs will
participate in the selection of services needed for the implementation of the component for
improving the capacity for teacher training at the state leel.



-72-
Amu 7
Page 2 of 5
4.   CENAMEC will be responsible for whical and procurement activities related to the
interactive radio progam and the non-printed intuctional materials component. Thes
activities include inter alla th selection and po nt of didactic materials and radios, the
production of radio programs and the production of technical guides and manuals.
5. - -FUNDALE      UIRAvRll be responsible for technical, prorent ad selection
activities reated to the reading plan. These activities include the selection and procurement
-ofreadig books and-equipment, the production of technical guides and manuals, and tie
rotation of reading books packages among the rurl and urban marginal schools selected to
participate in the project.
6. The National Library will be responsible the selection of reading books and for
technical, selection and procurement acfivities related to the classroom library component.
These activities include the selection and procurement of complementary boolk, the
production of technical guides and manuals to instruct teachers on how to use and maintain
the lbraies, and the distribution of the library resources to single classroom schools.
7.   The MOE will provide technicl      to most of the components, including
textbooks through CEV, the classroom library through LIB, teacher trauning and
improvement of teacher training capci through BAS, refonn of teacher training through
RUN and BAS, management studies and moderization of maagement through OSI,
management information systems through ASE, school improvement grants through RUN,
student assessment through CEV, and studies of basic and secondary education through RUN
and BAS. These technical support will consist of activities related to the design of technical
guidelines, specifications, manuals, and terms of references needed for the implementation of
dtese components. Also the MOE will pardcipate in the Ition of good and services for
the components of tblks through CEV, classroom libaries through LIB, non-printed
instruction  marials, teacher training, and impovement of teacher training capacity
trough BAS, reform of teacher training through BAS and RUN, management studies and
moderization of management through OSI, management information system through ASE,
student assessment through CEV and studies of basic and secondary education through RUN
and BAS. Finally, the MOE will provide direct loitcal  to the implementation of
the components of refonn of teacher training through BAS, management studies through OSI,
management information system through ASE, student assessment through CEV, and studies
of basic and secondary education through BAS.



-73 -
Page 3 of S
8.   The MOE will also participate, through the PCU, in Mnitoring. aontrolling and
evaluating all components and on =rement activities for the components: imPrvement of
teacher training capacity, reform of teacher taining, project management, mane t
studies, modeon of management, management information systems, student assment
and studies of basic and secondary education and textbooks. The PCU will also participate
in the @letiX  of goods and services for the components of textbooks, reform of teacher
t     , prject mement, management studies, moderization of maagement and
management information system and will provide technical support for the project
management component. In its -sngoingng role, the PCU will be responsible for: caryig
out the annual reviews and all preparation necessary for the projet's mid-term review;
organizing a meeting between the Bank, the MOE and the SES to review the actions plans
esulting from the management studies and to agree on a strategy for implementing those
actions plans; and coordinating and supervising the implementation of the agreed acions
agreed.
9.   The matrix below (Annex 7: Table 1) presents a summary of the areas of
ponsibilities of each implementing agency.
10. The PCU will serve as the technical, administrative, and opional counterpart of the
Bank during the life of the project. To perform these functions the PCU will lave a matrix
type orgnizoton comprising five substantive and four support units. Through the
substantive units the PCU will organize the technical implementation of each prOect
component. The support units will provide the support services necesay for project
coordination. The five substantive units are: (i) textbooks and instructional materials; (*d)
ins"tional strengthening; (iii) school improvement grant; (Iv) training; and (v) school
maintenance. The four support units are: (1) procurement, bidding and contracts; (ii)
planning and project control; (iii) co-implementation agreement and legal supPort; and (iv)
administration and logistical support. The PCU will be assisted by two commiuees: (i) an
advisory council incorporated by the Minister of Education, the head of the PCU and thee
of four highly respected education personalities. The main function of this committee wold
be to advise the Minister and the head of the PCU on educational policies and action plans
related to the project; (ii) an executive council comprising the Vice-Minister, the directors of
Planning and Budgeting of the MOE, Administrative Services of the MOE, Basic and
Secondary Education, CENAMEC, National Lbrary, FUNDALECTURA, and the head of
the PCU who will be the technical secretary of the council. The main role of this council
will be to ensure coordination between different executing agencies and to solve any conflict
that may arise during the life of the project between the executing agencies. The PCU will
at all times be headed by a professional with management eperience on internationally
funded project. Consultants with specialized expertise not available within the MOE wil be
contracted as needed throughout the project period using project funds. The graph below
(Annex 9: Table 2) presents the organizational chart of the PCU.



- 74 -
-  qm -  .--       =         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 4 of S
t1~~ I- - II  XTr
-~~~~-
ti~~~~ PujSuli1l
.. , . ~-ir   ___   
* ;  iii.     



I           ~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~I 
o    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~8  I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~........
a:  ~~~~~~~~~~... .             ......
t                                        10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



Table I - Venezuel
Basic Education Pmject
Expenditure Aacounts by Componens
(US$ '000)
Inaudm Dsdna
?"vision   oMPrd                                            M                          ME    stco           or    RT       M               ray
of        daeII.    Cim    Ida*di,.   Pan    Tmcb           and        tokoi  1hfosmaon bmnjamw   Sanda           Sa0.a
Tatbtoo    Matriaf   Nb rai      Rsdb      LOdor  Tra       Mftd"e SMdga            Syms    Grant   A5iSWUC    Suan             Tog_!          -noam
L hertuenA Coda
A. ES _pacat          35.2        9.1         0      I183.6   437.8        0       397.6          0       4639         0        93           0   6916.8    10   691.7
L Imumd_           3789.9    6271.7    993s.S        1746.S   657.7        0          0           0         0          0          0          0   56S07.3    10  S650.7
matrodab
C. aGnt                  0         0          0          0       0         0          0      4743.5         0      8701.2         9          0 13444.7       0       0
D. StaI.             229.4         0          0       12.7       0         0          0      9388.2         0          0          0     .2997 91262S.3       0       0
L. Tinig             491.3       17.9         0        964   1746.6  20195.3      5342.0          0      269.2      447.7     472.           0    30166       5  150.3
F. Ac                604.6      443.3     93S.2      544.7   105.9   2227.7       S259.9          0       81.3    2086.9    1304.6           0   13043.1     5   6t2.2
a.Fodig                  0         0          0          0       0       9.4          0           0         0          0          0          0       9.4     5      0.3
H. Db      -uaw      324.7         0          0      S68.2       0    123S.3       70S.9         0          0          0      29M.5        15.6   314t.2     S   157.4
I. mUa.ltdganN           0         0          0          0   1137.1   6211.1      I38.2          0          0       254.3      313.2         0    8153.9     5   407.7
Evahadios
Total in _od  COa         39581.1     6741.9   10920.7    5024.7  4155.1  29178.3    12293.7    14131.8    4919.3   11489.1    2397.8           3013.3  144617.7   6.3  9091.4
IL Raurrad Code
A. Opeatn             28.1         0          0     4068.7   I08.9   1074.7        2448          0       345.1      44S.6      113.7         0   9104.8      3   490.2
cNIM
B. Coe_obIO             0          0          0          0       0      521.1      103.1         0          0        129        0.9          0      754      10    75.4
Total ReceaA Code            28.1         0          0     4068.7   0680.9   1595.8      2551.l         a       543.1      574.6      114.6         0   10338.8    5.4  36S.6
Tod  DASEIJNIR COSTS      39609.2    6741.9   10920.7    9093.4    S236   31474.5    14344.8    14131.8    5534.6   12063.7          212.4      3013.S  155176.6   6.2  9664.1
Phya                36S.S       6S1.I    1042.8      600.8   316.6   3599.8        557.5      219.8      508.7      174.6     126.1        0.8   9664.1      0       0
Prak Cosingace      393S.2      8119      996.9    1032.7   441.2       3116       702.8      763.1      448.4    1445.8      224.?       43.8  14014.5    6.2  M54.6
TOal PROJECT COS            47430     8211.9   12960.S   10746.9  5993.7  36190.3    16324.9    14894.8    6491.7   33684.1    2363.            3063.1 178855.1   S.9  05U8.
FoEBbmgo           22863.1    3851.8    5921.9    2317.3         80      72.7      690.7     2396.3    5474.4        40.5      10.7       761.5    4481    S.4  3S39.1
24>



-77 -
Arumex 8
Page 2 of 7
Table 2 - Venezuela
Basic Education Project
toject Componerts by Year - TotalS Indluding Couthigencies
(US$ '000)
1994  09      1996     1997      101      Toa
A. lnstruetIona_ _Ntrat__
Proviion of Textbooks                       328.3   7036.6  17077.3  17507.6   S480.1   47430.0
Nonpinted Teading Marials                   439.9    210.4   2086.8   2297.6   3177.1    8211.9
Clas LIbraries                              209.4   3447.3   3638.4   4430.5   1234.8   12960.5
teractive Radio                             512.5     1121    1879.6   3041.2   4192.6   10746.9
Plan Lector                                1197.5   1022.6   1212.5   1191.8   1369.3    S993.7
Sublotal Instrctonal Materbi                    2687.6  12838.0  25894.6  28468.7  15454.0   85343.0
B. Teaher Trainn
TeacherTaining                             2015.8   6724.9   9164.5   7614.7  10670.4   36190.3
Subtol Teaher Trainn                            2015.8   6724.9   9164.5   7614.7  10670.4   36190.3
C. Inst1utonal Deeopmet
Pject Managenmt and Monitoting             8471.6   3005.7   1661.2   1563.7   1622.7   16324.4
Intiutional Strengthening                  7499.7   1026.1   2385.6   1926.8   2056.6   14894.8
npowvmet of MOE Inbmation Systems           715.4   1672.4   1935.5   1401.1    767.4    6491.7
School Imprvment Grant                      298.S    712.5   2135.6   4672.6   5864.9   13684.1
Evaluation of Sudent Achievement            403.2    563.6    583.1    546.8    766.4    28633
Subtotal Institiodal Deveopment                17388.4   6980.3   8701.0  10111.0  11078.0   54258.7
D. School Effeivees Studies and SemIna         25503    512.9         0         0        0     3063.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                            24642.0  27056.0  43760.2  46194.4  37202.5   178855.1



-78 -
Ane= 8
Page 3 of 7
Table 3 - Venezuela
Basic Education Project
ftqjet Compoe_   by Year - Be Costs
(US$ '000)
-  1044   -O         1006 -   lOS7  *      001      Tafm!
A. Ins1r_1onal Msterbls 
Provision of Textbooks                     308.1     6190.2   14493.4     14303    4314.6   39609.2
Non-printed Didactic Materials               402      187.5    1771.S    1879.4    2501.S    6741.9
Clmas Librarm                                197     3027.3    3091.8    3624.6      979.9    10920.7
ntemracve Radio                            479.6     1015.1    1642.1    2552.7    3403.9    9093.4
Plan Lactor                               1102.7      930.9    1069.5    1012.2    1120.8       5236
Subtotal Instwucdtonal Materiabs               2489.4    11351.1   22068.2   23371.9   12320.7   71601.3
B. Teacber Trainbng
Teacher Training                          1892.S     6163.4    8129.8      6504    8784.8   31474.5
Subtotal Teacher TrainIng                      1892.5     6163.4    8129.8      6504    8784.8   31474.5
C. Instituional Deblopnaent
Projec Ma _ngmt and Monioring             7966.0     2735.5    1473.1    1335.1    1335.1   14844.8
Instutional Strengtheing                  7411.8      988.2    2223.5    1729.4    1778.8   14131.8
Improvement of MOE infomaton Systems       647.2     1473.4    1650.3    1154.2      609.5    5534.6
School Improveenft Grant                   282.3      668.1    1952.6    4132.2    5028.5   12063.7
Evaluation of Student Achievement          379.1        517     517.6      467.4     631.3    2512.4
Subtota Institutbru Devlopmeat                16686.3     6382.2    7817.1    8818.4    9383.3   49087.2
D. School Effeciveness Studies and Sembnars    2520.4      493.2        0          0         0     3013.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                          23588.6    24389.8   38015.2   38694.3   30488.7  155176.6
Physical Coontingncies                     764.1     1667.7    2771.6    2771.5    1689.2    9664.1
Price Contingecies
Inflation
Lcal                            8030.7     5431.1   12633.0   17195.9   20154.5   57445.1
Forgei                            47.5      280.3      923.3    1423.3     846.4    3520.8
Subtot InflaIon                      2078.7     S711.3   13556.3   18619.2   21000.8   60965.9
Devaluation                          -1789.0    -4712.8  -10582.8  -13890.6  -15976.2  -46951.4
Subtoal Pfioe Contingencis                 289.3      998.5    2973.4    4728.6    S024.6   14014.5
TOTAL PROJECT COrsS                           24642.0    27056.0   43759.7   46194.4   37202.5  178855.1
Taxes                                         0          0          0         0         0          0
Foreign Exchange                          4092.8      7610   13574.3   13934.8       6269      45481



-79 -
Ann" h
Page 4 of 7
Table 4 - Veneula
Basic Educaton Proj
Components by Finaniers
(USS '000)
Interational
Back for
Reontructon   Governme  o                               LOCf
and Develomet    V      _ene        TOWal        For.    (lId.
Amount    %    Amount  S    Amoun    *          Elcb.   Taxes)
A. I1tucdona M !satea
Provi    Of TutbOI                    23876.0  50.3  23554.0  49.7    47430   26.5  22863.1  24566.8
Nonrhintd Didactio Mata                 3251.4  39.6  4960.5  60.4   8211.9   4.6   3851.8   4360.1
Clss Librais                            6849.8  52.9  6110.7  47.1  12960.5   7.2   5921.9   7038.6
IntaCtiv Radio                          2907.7  27.1   7839.2  72.9  10746.9     6   2517.3   8229.6
Plan Lector                             2792.6  46.6   3201.1  53.4   593.7   3.4       880    5113.7
Subot insrutonal Mahba                     39677.9  46.5  45665.5  53.5  85343.0  47.7  36034.2  49308.8
B. Techr Traini
TachrlTining                           15832.4  43/7  20357.9  56.3  36190.3  20.2    72.7  36117.6
C. IstutIonal
Proje Manageent and Montorng            8430.7  51.6  7894.2  48.4  16324.9   9.1    690.7  15634.1
:stional Seghenig                      10323.3  69.3  4571.6  30.7  14894.8   8.3   2396.3  12498.5
Ilp_vemet of MOE bInoation Sytems       5659.6  87.2   832.0  12.8   6491.7   3.6   5474.4   1017.3
School Ipr emet rant                    6093.6  44.5   7590.4  55.5  13684.1   7.7      40.5  13643.6
Bvalsatio of Student Achievemet          968.7  33.8  1894.5  66.2   2863.3   1.6    10.7   2852.5
Subtotal Isttdonal Develomen               31475.9  58.0  22782.8  42.0  54248.7  30.3   8612.7  45646.0
D. SChiOO Effeciven   Studes and SemIars    2436.9  79.6   626.2  20.4   3063.1   1.7   761.5   2301.7
Total DIsbuseent                           89422.7  50.0  89423.4  50.0  17885.5   100    4S481   13337.4



-80 -
Page 5 of 7
stAk 5 - Vo  Xua
-        A.~Dow Emum"   ee*-                     - 
IatamtimlHak for Room6wua ads Dm%pomW
(US '000)
Iu~te Afloado
o71"n 1s_                                    ~~~~~~~~~Avuago
L                _            Toml Pjoet cogt               Didmbnut I
_A         5,            t b TaOWl Loalla  Tol Pal
1. B4miw                 7.398.3        100.0    8,138.1                8,138.    100.0            100.0
2. Imuiacsiom   b.      30,7663          49.8    67.93.5   34,9".8   32,994.7    49.8              100.0
3. GAut                  7.549.1         50.0    15,099.5   15,076.6      22.9    50.0             100.0
4. Lau cwo_bx            4.394.S         30.0   15.380.?   IS380.?          -    30.0   30.0          -
5. Fft*p casUmb            10.3        100.0       10.8                  0t.o   100.0      -      100.0
6 S_in                   10,312.3        80.0    12,03       8,66.0    4,222.3    E0.0   67.2    100.0
7. T1 4hh               19261.2          59.2   34,140.2   34.140.2                59.2   59.2
8. Opo    _C                          -          11,253.5   11.2St.S       2.0
9. Co*uab  Utab                             -      901.2      811.1       90.1
10. Dim_l                      -            -    3,586.5    3,586.5
11. Maowlaguai .vuafm   4505.1           50.0    9,460.7    9,460.7          .    50.0   50.0
ut _d                 5,225.0
T1                   89,422.7         50.0   178,855.1  -133,374.1   45,481.0
Loa= Amowab
Told      U=flcd        TOW        Loca      Forig
1. Uqupui                8,138.1        739.8     7,393          7*,39S3
2. IA _au d lMai        33,843.0       3.076.6   30,766.3     773.6    29.9928
S. Gana                  7,549.8          0.0    7,549.8    7,526.9       22.9
4. Loc _omb              4,614.2        219.7    4,394.5    4,394.5
5.    oaousb                10.8          0.5       10.3                   103
a S_itl                 10,312.3          0.0    10,312.3    7.090.0    3,3
7. T1mIn                20,224.2        963.1    19,261.2   19,261.2
8. OpaudmCe                               0.0
9. c        _in*bwhb          -           00           -*
10. D     _Um                 .           00 -.-
11. Uoakohgmde.swmda  4,730.3           225.3    4,5.1    4,55.1-
Umlocatud                                ---
Tl                   89,422.7       5,225.0   $4,197.7  74N3I3i    40,
Lo=snauoatfinmby I _at      ldBak forRe e_oaodasi  D.svdamamt



- 81 -
Page 6 of 7
Table 6 - Veneul
Basi E    _ucadon Prj
Dbburement Accounol by Fl0na
(USS ~0)
R   Gov"Wa Of                              Locd    Duties
and Developmetd      WOMl             Total         For..               &
Aumut    %    Amount   %          MU        %      Excb.    TaTs)    TMes
Equipment                  8138.1   100         0      0    8138.1   4.6    8138.1         0        0
ilutnal Maeriab           33843.0  44.8   34150.6  50.2   67993.    38   33994.7   33998.8          0
School Impwveut            79.8    50    749.8    50   15099.5   8.4           229    15076.6       0
Ical Cosultat              4614.2    30   107665    70   15380.7   8.6           0    15380.7       0
Fop Counltants               10.8   100         0      0      10.8     0       10.8        0        0
Studies                   103123    80    2578.1    20   1289.3   7.2    3222.3          9668       0
T-ann*                    20224.2  59.2   13416.0  40.8   34140.2  19.1          0    34140.2       0
0     0    3586.S   100    3586.S      2         0    3586          0
Evaluaion                  47303    50    4730.3    50    9460.7   5.3           0    9460.7        0
Operatig Coss                   0     0   11253.5   100   112S3.S   6.3          2    1125IS       0
ConsumableMatedali              0     0      901.2   100     901.2  O0S        90.1     811.        0
Total             89442.7  50.0   89432.4  50.0  178855.1   100      45481  133374.1       0



-82 -
Annex 
Page 7 of 7
TAb  7 - VYzuea
Bas  Education Pojc
NecrunntAmunts by llmmdncls
-         ~~       ~~~----- --                        IA    D 
ad D               V     _            Totdal        For.     zEsL       &
agon    -%   JAmount '%           Amount    %      E         Taxes)    Taxs
A. Eq   _d                        8138.1    100         0     0    818.1   4.6   8138.1           0       0
3.  1    _stelina Maft&h .
Tadxboo                    2302903    50.6    2249   49.4   455.3  25.5  22762.8   22765.5             0
NoewPaid  1dWW Matah         3072.    40.0    46113   60.0    763.9   4.3   3841.8    3842.2           0
Pi   DidalsM abtmIs          7741.0   524    700.3  47.6  14781.3   83    7390.2    7391.1             0
SuiOlMl Imtrueli    a            3384.0   49.8   39150.6  50.2   67993.5    38   33994.7   33998.8         0
C. Gran                           7549.8     50    7599.8    50   15099.5   8.4       22.9   15076.6       0
D. S94Uds                        101921     73.2    3M9.7  26.8   14921.2   83    32.3         116"        0
L. oal _Cmusullb                  4004.9     30    9344.8    7C   13349.7   7.5          0    13349.7      0
F. F   Cf h                         10.8    100         0     0       10.8     0      10.8         0       0
G. Trainn                        20224.    59.2   13916.0  40.8   34140.2  19.1          0    34140.2      0
EL Op _thg Cos                        0       0   11253.    100   11253.5   63           2    11251.5    32.8
L ConmuAMa.a                          0       0     9012   100       901.2   0.5      90.1     811.1       0
J.                                    0 O     0    3586.5   100    3586.5      2         0     3586.5      0
IL .ma    g _d    1               47303      50    47303    50    9460.7   5.3           0     9460.7      0
TOW                             S47       50.0   89432.4  50.0  1788S5.1   100    4S481   133374.1    32.8



- 83 -
Page 1 of 2
Veuela Basic Eduaion Prject
.~_                                                             _       -            - _         =       ,,...
ACMIVrlTS                                                                  Q         1994      199S      1996        7     1998
Instrctiona          Textbooks            Regular Texts ptovided       12,080,535     0%        I5%      37%      37%      Its
Techer guides povidd          459,126      0%        14%      38%      34%       13%
iludihtextaspbovided           31,159      0%         0%       0%      87%       13%
Evaluation Semis                 450      33%        33%      33%       0%       0%
_Deaemln-m                        120       33%       33%       33%      0%       0%
Nonprinted           Pac}sp A                        2,630       2%      0.10%      28%      30%      40%
Marisls                                                         -          -.        -        -
P_ck. R                        6,771       4%         2%      27%1   28%        28%
Clas Lbraries        Unitaq trved boxes              2,427       0%        35%      28%      37%       0     .
Concentrated tavel boxes       4,967       0%        33%      33%X    34%         0%
, . w < -- r . .- ¢s~f                            1-:.
Books bor unitry   ool        581940       0%        30%      26%      37%        8%
lirary
Boob for concuarated         1,191,080     0%        28%      30%      34%        8%
Wabrary
Infomation Sysem                 23       100%
bareative Padio     Nuubr of clarooms              43,280       2%        10%      18%      31%      40%
Incorporated
ProvWlonofuadios               33,250      2%        13%      24%      40%      22%
Teachems tained                 1,443      2%        10%       18%     30%      40%
Plan ector           Pua. of vehicle8                  23       100%       0%        0%       0%       0%
Traning                        9,014       2%        25%      2S%      24%      24%
PavlaioneO oledioes            1,156      69%        11%       7%       6%       7%
_ _ _oAtOUrnsm                   23       100%
TeacherTin           TeahrTign1s          Techestasined                  106,434      1%        17%      22%      23%      37%
TeacherTraining                S,127    0.49%        17%      22%      23%      37%
Wohops                                                             .
DeagpofPm toye                            .33%       33%      33%
Stam*   ning  sm                 23       48%        52%
PIot proa                         5       100%
._________ .__________ .                ;pactatudie                         4                  25%      25%      2S%      2S%



-84 -AL9
Page 2 of 2
Venezuea DasBic Education Project
Monitoring bJdicors
crriu I-                                                                                     1"" l-6 ".  _ ,  ..
AcrIVfrES    ____.___._                                          _      Q_   _1994_    1995           1996    1997   1l948_
bhQitA              Project Masageent    Sablmnt of PCU-vIE               I      100%
Dev1med             and Monioing           ._._._i
.I . .__             Resions with accouing           23       70%       30%
..~ ~ ~ ~~Srnghnn ..     _                 ems.                                   .        ....                  .1
Regions with informatn          23       70%       30%
ReonS with nrms ad              23       70%       30%
procedurs system
Taming ig phnning ad            46       50%       50%
Trining in account  and         23       70%       30%
budgetng__                    ____
Training in pecs                24       71%       29%
Trii  in prcmu    td             4       100%
lnyrownnof           Nuoberof sytms                  576      30%       30%       40%
MOB nnation          developed and inlled
Hardware and SoftwRe            24       29%       71%
School Joe_met    Gan provide                      2,683       4         15%      35%     46%
Projects compleed             2,683       0%        4%       1S%     35%      46%
Training of personel          7,053       4%        17%      40%     39%
Stats patiipaig                 23       17%       39%       43%
Bvaluto of Stuent   Plot test adinistaton             S       20%       20%       20%     20%      20%
Adalevo                                                    _        ___
Natona admiioosw                 4        0%       25%      25%      25%      25%
Dssoewtionof rlts                4        0         1          1       1        1
Number of 8trngaWvti            27       33%       19%       19%     IS%      IS%
(e.g.. courses Insttuton-
based atrani,sudy vi
field worer traing) 
Reltedssearbobnes lt             3        0         0                         _ 1  1
Related satud(e.S.,effbet        5        0         0          1       2        2
and Impact)
7~~ ~ ~ ~    ~                                                -   =      -l t  m, -.......................  '  =     .



-85 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
VENEZUELA: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Documents in Project Fles
1.   Venezuela 2Q: Educaton for Goth and Social Equit, ppared by LAIHR, The
World Bank, August 10, 1993.
2.   1br6 do            n     l  prepared by the Ministry of Education and the
Institute of Regional and Urban Studies, Sim6n Bolivar University, April 1993.
3.   Pgrama Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Eduaci6n bi  Produyci&n y
,Distnbucion d Textos oe      de Lici6n Infe de Asesorda Tdcnica by Elvinia
Utria G., Ministry of Education, Republic of Venezuela
4.   Determinacidn de la Cpcidad Financiera del Pals Para Racer Frente a la
Contrapartida Local y a los Costos de Oncd6n y Mantenimiento de las inversiones
by Lopold Ydf1ez Betancourt (consultant) for the Programa de Modernizaci6n y
Fortaleciemiento de la Educacidn Bfsica VE-0090.
5.   Proyecto: Mejoriento de la Calidad do la Edugcidn Basica, by COPRE, Ministry
of Education.
6.   Subcomponente: Libros de Texto, prepared by the Ministry of Educain, Oficina
Sectorial de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, June 1993.
7.   Lectura Pam Todo: Un Programa Dirigido a Revalorizar la lectura en la Prolai6
Yenezoana, prepared by the Ministry of Education Fundaci6n Comisi6n Nacional de
Lectuma - FUNIDALECTURA, Caracas, Venezuela, 1993.
8. Subcomponente: Bibliotecas de Aula en Escuelas Rurales prepared by the Ministry of
Education, Instituto Autonomo Biblioteca Nacional, Coniisi6n Nacional de Lecutra,
May 1993.
9.    Moe   Sub-nComont de Materiales Educativos No Impresos, prepared by the
Ministry of Education, Centro pam el Mejoramiento de la Enseflana de la Ciencia,
Caracas, May 1993.
10.  Matemitica Intractva Pam Educaci6n BsiMca prepared by the Ministry of Education
Centro Nacional pam el Mejoramniento de la Ensefianza de la Ciencia (CENAMEC),
May 5, 1993.
11.  Componente: Caacitaci6& en el Uso del Texto y de Materiales no Escritos, Proyecto
Mejoramiento de la Caildad de la Educaci6n Bfisica, prepared by fte Ministry of
Education, July 1993.



-86-
AMa 10
Page 2 of 2
12.  Com=nCte: Innovaciones EAugazijs, Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Btsica, prepared by the Ministry of Education, July 1993.
13.  SUbggm=Ote: Sistema de Infom,si de St Ed           , Proyecto Mejoramiento
de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Btsica, prepared by the Ministry of Education, August
1993.---
4 14.  E =de. Medicidn del                    R     endianien OsiSl ficina Sectoria
de Planificaci6n y Presupuesto, Ministry of Education, November 1992.
15. Componente: Preinversidn, Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacidn
Bgsica, prepared by the Ministry of Education.



IfM221~
-V ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~                  .
mY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U  AN
VENEZUELA
Seleded~~~~~~~~~ Ci.. dTw                    4r∞    ∞0\ t                             )/-   
_    $Iot cr Federdl Toonieny Counp ie                           '  o(                                                       - 7  
--- nbdoni oworisj\g    
S. ~W C,i.  _d                                                                                                              .';   C O L O M D I A ZL
60~~~~~~~~~~~~6 
0 3,       1(10        020         30D                                                \        ,                B R A Z I L            9                      _  -<F                   MAR,,,L



