Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 21179
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36560; SCL-3656A; SCPD-3656S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$69.4 MILLION
TO THE
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR A BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
October 23, 2000
Human Development Sector Management Group
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 06/22/2000)
Currency Unit = Bolivar
681.23 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.0015 = 1.00 Bolivar
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CENAMEC                National Center for the Teaching of Math and Science
(Centro Nacional para la Ensefianza de la Matemdtica y la
Ciencia)
CORDIPLAN              Ministry of Coordination and Planning
(Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n)
FONVIS                  Venezuelan Fund for Social Investment
(Fondo Venezolano de Inversi6n Social)
Fundaci6n Escuela de Gerencia Social
FUNDALECTURA            Foundation for the Promotion of Reading
(Fundaci6n para la Promoci6n de la Lectura)
GOV                     Government of Venezuela
ICB                     International Competitive Bidding
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
ME                      Ministry of Education
MIS                     Management Information System
PCU                     Project Coordination Unit
SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report
SES                     State Education Secretariat
(Secretaria Estadal de Educacion)
UCER                    State Project Implementation Unit
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Country Sector Leader:   Eduardo Velez
Sector Manager/Director:    Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Carlos Rojas



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
VENEZUELA
BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3656-VE)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                           24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008218                                        Project Name: VE- BASIC EDUC
Team Leader: Carlos A. Rojas                               TL Unit. LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: October 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: VE- BASIC EDUC                                 L/C/TFNumber: CPL-36560;
SCL-3656A;
SCPD-3656S
CountryIDepartment: VENEZUELA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/15/92                                 Effective: 03/23/94           12/20/94
Appraisal:  04/15/93                                  MTR: 09/23/96               07/15/98
Approval:  11/04/93                                 Closing: 06/30/99            04/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: /MIN. OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                         Rainer Steckan
Sector Manager:      Xavier Coll                                Allain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR:   Carlos Rojas                              Emesto Cuadra
ICR Primary Author:   Manuel Vera
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU-=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SUl=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main goals of the project were to assist the Government of Venezuela (GOV) to (i) raise the level of
student achievement, (ii) reduce the incidence of repetition and dropout, and (iii) increase graduation rates
of basic education through improvements in the quality of education and administrative efficiency.
Because there was a movement at the time to decentralize education to the states, another important
objective of the project was to help states develop their own capacity for managing the system efficiently.
Towards these ends the project would: (a) increase student access to textbooks and other instructional
materials; (b) improve teachers' teaching skills and effectiveness; (c) improve the education management
capacity of the Ministry of Education (ME) and of the State Education Secretariats (SES); and (d) develop
ME's capacity to coordinate and formulate policies, monitor student learning and school quality, and
identify bottlenecks and problems at the state and local levels in a timely manner.
The original project objectives were consistent with the Bank's strategy that was formulated based
on the findings of a 1993 Education Sector Review. The project objectives were to strengthen human
resource and poverty reduction programs and strengthen institutions, including project preparation and
implementation capacity, as stated in the 1993 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The objectives also
responded to government policies established in the Social Megaproject (1991) and in the Ten Year
Education Development Plan, 1993-2003. The project was part of the ME's Education Development
Program, which included another project for Modernization and Strengthening of Basic Education,
financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). Together, both projects involved a total
investment of US$428.84 million equivalent in four years, an amount that proved to be beyond the GOV's
implementation capacity. A single Project Coordination Unit would assume responsibility for
implementation of both the IDB project and the Bank project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No change.
3.3 Original Components:
Component                         Cost
Instructional Materials;          $85,343,000.00
Teacher Training;                 $36,190,300.00
Institutional Development;        $54,248,700.00
Studies and Seminars;              $3,063,100.00
3.4 Revised Components:
The GOV requested an adjustment of the project objectives and goals in 1997, in order to reduce the cost
and to facilitate implementation. While the main objectives and major components remained basically
unchanged, textbooks were not considered as a separate subcomponent, to be included instead in expanded
classroom libraries, in addition to supplementary reading materials. The teacher training and institutional
development components were substantially reduced.
Component;                        Cost;
Instructional Materials;          $87,900,000.00;
Teacher Training;                 $28,000,000.00;
Institutional Development;        $40,000,000.00;
Studies and Seminars;              $3,000,000.00;
-2-



3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
While the project components were well conceived for the proposed objectives, little attention was
given in the design to the institutional capacity required to administer a large and complex education
investment program with two multilateral financiers and numerous implementing agencies at the national
and state levels. The financial and administrative arrangements tumed out to be excessively cumbersome
and inefficient. The project was designed by a group of qualified consultants hired by the Ministry of
Education, but without participation by the Ministry's regular structures or staff. As a result, the project
encountered strong Ministry resistance at the outset, the newly created Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
got off to a weak start and project implementation could not get underway until three years after loan
effectiveness.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified as the main risks to project implementation: a) weak
institutional and managerial capacity on the part of the ME and the SES to manage an investment project
and their lack of experience with Bank-financed projects; and b) possible opposition from the educational
zone offices (Zonas Educativas) to the SES participation in project implementation. Measures provided
were adequate to mitigate these risks. However, the crucial problems of lack of Ministry support and
continuity of project management were not anticipated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The main objectives of the project were only partially achieved. Critical constraints to project
implementation were changes of government authorities which occurred at the time of loan effectiveness
and again when implementation was nearing completion. Frequent changes in project management and
staff, both on the side of the Government and the Bank, also contributed to delays in project implementation
and to occasional misunderstanding between the Government and the Bank regarding the nature of the
procurement procedures which the Bank required. This led to strained relations and virtual paralysis of
project activities for the first three years of the implementation period.
With the change in PCU leadership in 1997, the Ministry of Education became directly involved in
the educational aspects of the project components. During 1998 and 1999 project implementation gained
significant impetus thanks to new leadership in the Project Coordination Unit, and the Bank agreed to an
extension of the closing date to April 30, 2000. Substantial progress was achieved in procurement and
distribution of textbooks to students and classroom libraries and in-service training of teachers for
implementation of the new primary school curriculumn. The Reading Plan for traveling lending library
collections and the Interactive Radio Math Program were implemented in a highly satisfactory fashion,
exceeding their originally proposed targets in both cases. The management information system and the
National Learning Assessment System were successfully implemented with excellent quality and the GOV
has shown an interest in continuing with their operation.
Institutional development was partially achieved through the successful installation and operation
of the Management Information System, the development and operation of a high quality Student
Assessment System, and the creation of Project Implementation Units (UCER) at the state level. However,
the quality of the innovative teaching projects submitted under the School Improvement Grants program
was found to be less than satisfactory. The new Government which assumed power in 1994 decided to
de-emphasize decentralization to the states -an original project objective- and strengthen instead the
regional, state based offices of the central Ministry of Education.
- 3-



Implementation was affected again because of changed national priorities in 1999, due primarily to
the natural disasters which caused severe damage to some areas of the country. Pending procurement
processes for additional textbooks and classroom libraries were canceled. The Coordination Unit director
was changed, and most of the key project staff were dismissed, creating an administrative and managerial
vacuum.
At the time of the midterm review in July, 1998 the project had received a rating of
unsatisfactory, both in achievement of its development objectives and in implementation progress. Despite
the above mentioned shortcomings, the project was rated satisfactory on both counts at the end of 1999,
based on the substantial advance of the last two years. Disbursements totaled $43.7 million as of October
12, 2000, approximately 63 percent of the loan, compared with 7.8 percent at the end of 1997.
4.2 Outputs by components:
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
Textbooks of Mathematics and Language have been provided for students in the first and third
grades of basic education. Approximately 1.0 million books (8.33% of the original project target of 12
million books) were acquired by intemational competitive bidding (ICB). Textbooks were included as part
of the packages for classroom libraries as of 1997, and were no longer purchased separately.
Classroom libraries with a total of about 7.2 million textbooks and complementary books were
distributed to about 26,843 classrooms. Each classroom library consists of about 190 books on the
average. A procurement process was underway for an additional 8 million books at the end of 1999, but
the process was interrupted when the Government decided to concentrate all national efforts on the
reconstruction of schools destroyed by recent catastrophic floods. Together, the Textbooks and Classroom
Libraries components achieved about 68 percent of their proposed targets. Selection of the books followed
a careful process with qualified teachers participating in the technical evaluation of each title. However, it
is not possible at this point to assess the resulting educational quality of the materials or their impact on the
learning achievement of the students, since distribution to the schools took place mainly during the last year
of project implementation. There has been no comparative evaluation of student achievement as a result of
such well known and proven quality inputs as textbooks and classroom libraries.
The Reading Plan of traveling library boxes moving from school to school under the Supervision of
the National Library has served 1,088 schools and trained 8,083 teachers, benefiting about 415,000
students. The program has assembled 209 collections of 1,026 books each, a total of 193,914 books.
Twenty-three vehicles and 23 computers were delivered to State Commissions of Reading for the program.
The non-printed materials component was modified in the composition of the packages to include
sets of Geometry and Physics instruments instead of alphabet blocks in order to better accommodate the
needs of the curriculum. Purchases of these materials were canceled when the project was discontinued in
1999, with only 200 (2.32%) of the intended 8,650 schools having been reached. Additionally, nearly
1,000 schools received a set of maps.
Radios and teaching materials for interactive Math teaching were delivered to 52,500 classrooms
benefiting 2.2 million students, and the program is being implemented with excellent design and operation.
This subcomponent has exceeded its original target of 40,000 classrooms equipped. 135,000 radio
programs were produced, and 75,000 teachers were trained to use the materials. Tests conducted in 1995
and 1998 showed that students participating in the Radio program did better in Math than students in
non-participating control groups.
-4 -



TEACHER TRAINING
ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
A total of 112,980 teachers have been trained in topics related to implementation of the new basic
education curriculum and in language, math and the use of instructional materials, exceeding the original
target of 106,000. Thirty teacher training support centers have been equipped with TV sets, VHS, tape
recorders, videos and other support materials. The content of the originally proposed training was
reoriented to support curriculum reform instead of a more narrow focus on the use of learning resources.
The effect of this change of emphasis has not been assessed. The training program has been implemented
in a satisfactory manner, and was not interrupted when other project activities were stopped in late 1999.
The program is carried out in collaboration with participating universities in each of the states, but suffered
from lack of planning and coordination with other project components offering teacher training. No
empiric information is available on the quality and effectiveness of the training program or its impact on
teacher performance. Organization of the training activities has been the responsibility of higher education
institutions at the state level, following guidelines provided by the ME, and have consisted of intensive
two-week training workshops followed by mid-year and end-year refresher seminars for teachers in grades
1 through 9, school directors and supervisors. The project has encouraged indirectly the development of
more dynamic teaching techniques in teacher training institutions through their participation in the training
program, but no evidence is available of improvements in the curriculum, methods or effectiveness of the
pre-service training of teachers. A study of the pre-service teacher training system was completed, but no
action plan has been implemented for reforming the system.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory
(a) Management Information System (MIS)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
Design and installation of the Management Information System has been completed satisfactorily
for the statistical module, which is fully operational in all 23 states and is currently being used to produce
the Statistical Yearbooks of the ME. Expansion to three additional systems: human resources, financial,
and academic control, is currently underway with installation of local networks in 23 states and
interconnection with the central level in varying stages of completion. At the time of project closing,
interconnections had been completed among seven of the 23 states and between those and the Ministry of
Education in the Federal District. Databases have been developed for Statistics, Personnel Management,
Budget Management, and Academic Administration and Control. The system is currently supporting a
census of assets and personnel in nine states and the federal district. All computer, network and
communications link equipment have been acquired and installed. Staff members (1,804), 452 supervisors,
85 educational zone officers, and 480 school principals have been trained in computer use, application
programs, electronic mail and the Internet.
(b) Student Learning Assessment System
ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
Although some of the key staff have been changed recently, the National Learning Assessment
System (SINEA) is operational and is of excellent quality. The program has developed, and it has applied
achievement tests in Language and Mathematics to a national sample of students in the third, sixth and
ninth grades. A "values" test for students of the first and third grades, and a study of achievement related
factors for the 3rd grade, have been completed. Reports have been published and distributed to the states.
- 5 -



(c! School Improvement Grants
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The School Improvement Grants program had reached 1,050 projects out of an original target of
2,700. In a review of a sample of these projects, nowever, it was found that the program did not achieve its
intended objective of promoting local school initiative and involvement of teachers and students in the
generation of innovative solutions to their perceived unique problems of school quality. Instead, the
program was producing a series of stock proposals with similar ingredients, bearing scarce relation to
specific improvement objectives or educational quality needs. In view of the difficulty of re-directing the
program in the short time remaining for project implementation, the borrower and the Bank agreed in 1999
to discontinue implementation of the unexecuted portion of this subcomponent.
(d) Upgrading of Proiect Management Capacity
ICR Rating: Unsatisfactory.
The project provided for upgrading the project management capacity of the Ministry of Education
through the creation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) closely linked to the functional units of the ME
which would be directly involved in implementation of the project components. Simnilarly, the project
proposed strengthening the State Education Secretariats (SES) to be responsible for executing project
activities at the state level. These objectives were either not achieved or only partially and imperfectly
implemented.
Development of state management capacity. The Government decided early in project
implementation to shift the emphasis from decentralization of the school system to reinforcing the regional,
state-based offices of the Ministry of Education, thus limiting SES participation in the project. Instead,
State Project Implementation Units (UCER) were established to manage the project at the state level. The
UCER provided continuity in project implementation, but failed to strengthen the SES, and encountered
initial resistance from the Educational Zones, or regional offices of the ME. Nevertheless, some positive
achievements were reported in a partial evaluation conducted in 1998, among them the development of
trained professional teams in the states to manage large projects with multilateral financing, improved
coordination between educational institutions, improved school management, and reaching schools in poor
and rural areas.
Creation and strengthening of a Project Coordination Unit. The PCU had a week start, and for
the first three years operated in almost complete isolation from the main structure of the Ministry.
Individual officers who had collaborated with the Bank during the project design stage were removed in the
wake of political changes in the country as the project became ready to begin implementation. The
Ministry as an institution viewed the project with distrust and resisted its preparation and implementation.
New leadership in the PCU took some time to become acquainted with the project and to accept the Bank's
insistence on a need for competitive bidding in project procurement processes.
Dialog with the Bank improved considerably when a new Coordinator, appointed in 1996,
succeeded in clarifying for the Ministry the points of discrepancy with the Banks (a parallel IDB loan had
the same problems) and permitted a mutually satisfactory agreement on procurement procedures. Another
change in project Coordinator in 1997 capitalized on this favorable atmosphere, inserted the project as a
regular activity of the Ministry with participation in the weekly planning meetings of the Ministry
leadership, and achieved substantial progress in implementation of most of the project components during
the following two years 1997-1999.
Yet another change in project leadership occurred in late 1999 when a new elected administration
assumed power in the country. At the same time, disastrous floods led to a shift in government priorities,
from the quality improvement interventions supported by the project to reconstruction of destroyed or
-6 -



damaged school physical plant, which the project does not finance. All pending project activities were then
suspended, with the exception of in-service teacher training.
Management of Project resources. Institutional weaknesses were also reflected in the limited
capacity of the PCU to manage the use of project resources. Due to the PCU's lack of legal authority to
manage government funds, it becarne necessary to use other institutional mechanisms, within and outside
the Ministry structure, to irnplement various portions of the project components. The Venezuelan Fund for
Social Investment (FONVIS), a semi-autonomous agency under the Ministry of the Family, was initially
chosen to be the manager of the project resources and to disburse funds to other coexecutor agencies on
behalf of the ME and at the request of the PCU. The National Center for the Teaching of Mathematics and
Science (CENAMEC) was designated as coexecutor for the Interactive Radio Math Program and for the
non-printed educational materials subcomponent. The Foundation for the Promotion of Reading
(FUNDALECTURA) assumed responsibility for implementation of the expansion of the Reading Plan.
And the National Library became the coexecutor of the Supplementary Classroom Library program.
Another Foundation under the Ministry of Education, FUNDAPREESCOLAR, was proposed in
1997 to manage the educational materials component and to facilitate and provide support in financial
administration of the project. Its participation, however, was limited because it did not have sufficient
institutional capacity to assume project responsibility. Instead, a contract was signed in 1998 with the
UNDP to manage procurement and financing of most project inputs. This move contributed greatly to
facilitate the flow of resources to the project components, both from Bank disbursements and from
Government counterpart contributions.
STUDIES AND SEMINARS
ICR Rating: Satisfactory.
A total of 33 preinvestment studies of secondary education were completed by the ME through the
Office of Sector Planning and Budget (OSPP). The studies were disseminated at the national and regional
levels through a series of 18 workshops sponsored by the Ministry of Education. A proposed study of
teaching practices in primary education was not executed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include an estimated rate of return to the project. Expected benefits were stated
in terms of improved internal efficiency of the system as a result of increased graduation rates, reduced
resource waste from reducing repetition and dropout, and improvements in learning achievement of primary
students. It was also expected that the project would result in improved management capacity at the
Ministry of Education and at the state levels; and an improved capacity of the states to allocate resources
according to well defned policy objectives and priorities. There has been no significant change in the
levels of dropout and repetition in the basic education system of Venezuela in the years since the project
was prepared or in the previous decade. Deterioration of the Venezuelan economy during the 1990's had a
negative impact on financing of the educational system and affected its performance. Between 1991-92 and
1998-99, global repetition rates declined by less than one percentage point from 13.07% to 12.3 percent.
Dropout rates remained approximately the same at about 6 percent. The percentage of students graduating
after nine years of schooling was estimated in the SAR at 47 percent, and only 4.9 percent of those enrolled
graduate without repeating grades. Tests of cognitive achievement applied by the National Student
Assessment System in 1996 also reveal low levels of reading comprehension and written communication in
the areas of Language, Math and History amnong students in the third, sixth and ninth grades. Any
improvements derived from the project's quality interventions have not yet become evident. Due to
tardiness in the provision of the project-financed quality inputs, their impact on student achievement and
system internal efficiency can only be assessed in future years.
- 7 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for the project. The SAR estimated that additional
recurrent expenditures to be generated by project activities would have an impact of approximately 0. 1%
on the annual budget of the Ministiy of Education.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has achieved moderate impact in improving the institutional capacity of the ME to
manage the system and to monitor educational results through successful implementation of the MIS and
the Student Achievement Assessment System. The ME has also gained valuable experience in the skills of
managing educational development investments with multilateral financing and multiple actors, and has
identified adequate mechanisms to facilitate the transfer of funds to project activities.
The project did not achieve its proposed objective of developing school initiative for innovation
through the school improvement grants program. It had little effect in promoting educational
decentralization by strengthening the State Education Secretariats of the Zone offices of the ME, but it
created the State project implementation offices (UCER), which provided project management capacity at
the state level.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The most significant factor in interrupting the recently gained impetus in project implementation
was the disruption produced by the change in government in 1999. This was compounded by the disaster
originated by torrential rains and flooding which caused severe destruction in many populated centers and
forced the recently installed national administration to refocus resources and efforts toward relief of the
damages and rebuilding of housing and public services infrastructure, including schools. In light of the
new priorities, the GOV decided to stop project activities not directed at rehabilitation or reconstruction of
school buildings, with few months remaining for project completion. International competitive bidding
processes already initiated for the supply of about $10 million worth of textbooks and supplementary
reading books were canceled, as well as pending contracts for the provision of radios and educational
materials for interactive Math teaching, and non-printed educational materials for the schools. The action
came to interrupt the culmination of the most active phase of project implementation and prevent
completion of planned project investments.
Changes in national leadership and management at all levels, as well as in the Bank's task
managers, also affected project implementation. The project was executed under three different
administrations, which involved different ministers and changes in key staff. On the Bank's part, four
different task managers had responsibility for the project at various stages of preparation and
implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One major factor was the continuity of top education sector authorities throughout the five years of
project implementation, after the loan became effective. The Minister and Vice-Minister of Education
provided guidance and support to the project staff after an initial period of becoming acquainted with the
project. Despite this continuity at the Minister's level, little was accomplished in project implementation
until after the mid-term review, when appointment of a new PCU Director made it possible to break
through bureaucratic obstacles and achieve significant implementation progress during the two years
remaining in the Minister's tenure.
-8 -



Lack of institutional involvement of the Ministiry structure in the design and preparation phases of
the project resulted in a negative attitude that generated initial resistance to the project objectives and
proposals, and contributed in great part to the substantial delays in effectiveness and start-up of the project.
Unavailability of counterpart resources to finance project expenditures was also a factor contributing to
implementation delays, especially during the first two years of project implementation.
The decision by the government at the time of project start-up to favor deconcentration through
regional or Zone offices of the Ministry of Education as opposed to decentralization and transfer of
managerial responsibilities to the state Secretariats of Education, was a constraining factor that impeded
implementation of the decentralization objective of the project.
The procedures for utilization of resources from the Special Account and from the govermnent
counterpart contribution are extremely cumbersome and time consuming in Venezuela. The PCU does not
have direct access to the Special Account, nor is it allowed to make direct payments from the loan account.
The government resolved this problem by allowing the contracting of outside agencies, FONVIS and the
UNDP, as resource administrators to expedite the channeling of project funds to suppliers and coexecuting
agencies.
Another factor affecting implementation was the fact that two parallel loans for educational
development, one from the Bank and one from the IDB, with some overlapping components and with
different administrative and procurement procedures, were executed simultaneously by the same
Coordination Unit. The sheer number of components, about 20 in total, and the large volume of the
operations involving the equivalent of US$428 million, turned out to be beyond the administrative capacity
of an inexperienced PCU.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Frequent changes of Director and staff of the Project Coordination Unit were generally a negative
factor in project implementation. The person who had led discussions with the Bank during project
preparation was replaced at the time the project was ready to begin implementation activities, and
subsequent directors were not successful in making effective progress or winning Ministry support during
the first three years.
The appointrnent, in late 1997, of a project Coordinator who had participated as a PCU staff
member in the early phases of project preparation and implementation, and who was familiar with the
project objectives and design, was a decisive factor in activating the implementation process, in securing
the support and collaboration of other Ministry staff, and in re-establishing productive dialog and
understanding with the Bank regarding accepted procedures for project procurement and disbursements.
Practically all of the project implementation progress was achieved since that time.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total estimated cost of the project was initially $178.8 million, of which the Bank would
finance $89.4 million and the GOV would contribute $89,4 million equivalent. In 1997 the Bank agreed to
scale down the project cost to $138.8, canceling $20 million from the loan and an equivalent amount from
the local contribution. Financing cuts affected mainly the categories of Consulting Services ($7 million)
and Training ($7 million), and to a lesser extent Equipment ($1 million), in addition to $5 million from
Unallocated funds. An additional $10.4 million of loan funds was canceled on April 28, 2000, leaving the
total loan at $59.0 million. Final project cost was US$80.8 million equivalent, of which US$43.7 million
(54.08%) was financed with loan funds and the equivalent of US$37.1 million equivalent (45.92%) with
GOV counterpart funds. Bank disbursements as of October 12, 2000 total 71.42 percent of the loan. The
remaining US$15.7 million of the loan was canceled.
-9-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
ICR Rating: Likely (Partially).
Some of the more successful components of the project are likely to be sustainable. There are
reliable indications that the new administration intends to continue funding the management information
system through the creation of a Ministerial Office of Information. The government has also shown
interest in maintaining the National Assessment System by including it and its current staff in the Sector
Office of Planning and Budgeting. The in-service teacher training program has continued to be maintained
by the Government. Similarly, the Interactive Radio Program and the Reading Plan are likely to receive
continued support. Both activities were in existence before the project, and were expanded with project
resources.
Other project components, such as the provision of textbooks and supplementary classroom
libraries, distribution of non-printed educational materials, and the school irnprovement grants, are not
likely to be continued due to lack of interest in the School Grants and the substantial amount of investments
required for textbooks and other educational materials, unless new financing is made available to the
Government.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All quality improvement activities of the project have been carried out in the context of day to day
classroom operations. Students have regular access to textbooks and supplementary reading materials in
the classroom libraries, and teachers have been trained for implementation of the new curriculum and to
make better use of printed and non-printed educational materials to enhance their teaching. To the extent
that the project materials are durable, the schools benefited by the project will continue to use these
materials, but will not be able to replace or update them when they are lost, destroyed or become obsolete.
Financial arrangements will need to be made for continued maintenance of these quality enhancements,
which for now seem to be beside the scope of the government's budget availability.
Institutional arrangements are in place, and government financial resources are available, for
continuation of the Reading Plan under Fundalectura and the Interactive Radio Program for the teaching of
Math under CENAMEC, both of which are already incorporated as regular activities of the education
system and were efficiently implemented by the specialized agencies responsible of each.
Implementation of the Management Information System and the National Student Assessment
System was also accomplished with close participation of the relevant offices of the ME, and will continue
to operate under those offices until new institutional settings are established as proposed by the new
government authorities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the project identification phase was highly satisfactory. A thorough
review of the sector was conducted, and the education issues that needed to be addressed were clearly
identified. The Bank also had a significant role in providing technical support to the team of specialized
consultants contracted by the ME for the preparation and design of the educational components of the
project. Despite its complexity and the diversity of technical inputs, the project was soundly designed for
the objectives of improving educational quality and efficiency.
- 10-



In other areas of project preparation, the Bank's performance was less than satisfactory. The
crucial aspects of administrative capacity to manage implementation of such a complex project were not
treated with the same degree of thoroughness and professional competency as was the design of educational
quality components. No institutional or administrative specialists participated in project preparation, either
on the part of the team of government consultants or on the side of the Bank. The Bank made available
eleven technical specialists for project appraisal, which evidences careful attention to the details of each
subcomponent, but the institutional arrangements for implementation, coordination, procurement and
disbursement were not sufficiently analyzed.
Another area that did not receive enough attention during project preparation was the institutional
involvement of key Ministry staff in the conceptualization, design and preparation of the project. They
evidently felt threatened by the presence of outsiders, no matter how qualified, making decisions on matters
that affected the conduct of the educational process under their responsibility. Distrust and active
resistance were the unfortunate consequence of leaving out of the preparation process a key element of the
education system structure.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project by the Bank can be rated as satisfactory. During the first two years of
project implementation, there was intensive project supervision from the Bank, even though there was
practically no implementation progress. Through two successive changes in task management, supervision
intensity declined, and continued to be limited until the mid-term review in 1998. Once the protracted
disagreements between the Bank and the borrower regarding the procedures for procurement of textbooks
and instructional materials were resolved, project implementation and disbursements gained considerable
momentum, and supervision became more frequent and productive.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance can be considered satisfactory, even though the project preparation
stage failed to secure acceptance of the project by the Ministry staff who should have supported the
proposed quality interventions and assumed substantial responsibility for their implementation. The project
was unnecessarily delayed in its execution, and loan disbursements lagged considerably because of lack of
cooperation on the part of the Ministry and low status of the Project Coordination Unit, as well as
disagreement and misunderstanding between Bank and Government staff. But the problems were
eventually resolved through improved Bank relations with the borrower, and implementation could proceed
at an accelerated pace during the last two years. On the other hand, project components that were assigned
for execution to established outside agencies such as CENAMEC and FUNDALECTURA were
successfully implemented from the outset.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Govermment performance in the project preparation stage is rated as satisfactory with
qualifications. The Government provided a team of expert consultants to work with the Bank in
identification, design and preparation of project components. This permitted complete dedication of the
experts to the complex and time consuming tasks of putting together a coherent development finance
proposal for presentation to the Bank, and also relieved the regular Ministry staff from the required
additional work that could overburden and distract them from their ordinary duties. But this separation of
responsibilities had the unwanted effect of alienating key staff persons, since no provision was made for
- 11 -



them to be consulted regarding the important decisions being made at the drawing board to improve the
quality of basic education. The project was seen with suspicion, and the fact that it was being designed by
outside experts was seen as an intrusion in the system.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Project implementation on the part of the Government was satisfactory only during the two-year
period 1998-1999 when most of the project implementation activity took place. Government authorities
changed at the time the loan became effective, and the new authorities took considerable time to become
acquainted with the project and with procurement and disbursement rules. Implementation was only
possible during the last two years, and then a new govermnent change stopped ongoing procurement
processes.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the Project Coordination Unit during the two years when the project was
actively implemented was highly satisfactory. There was an initial delay of three years due to lack of
understanding of the Bank's norms and procedures as well as limited technical expertise to provide support
to other implementing agencies in matters related to procurement, administrative and financial management
of the project. Multiple implementing agencies for various components of the project made coordination
somewhat more difficult and complicated, but on the other hand permitted successful implementation of
such project activities as interactive radio, reading program, information system and student assessment
system, for which the responsible agencies could contribute specialized expertise.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was partially satisfactory, though it varied at different stages of the
implementation process and in relation to the various individual components, some of which were
implemented with remarkable success and efficiency (Reading Plan, Interactive Radio Math Program,
Teacher Training Program, Management Information System and National Learning Assessment System)
while others were only partially implemented (Distribution of Textbooks and Non-Printed Educational
Materials to students and Classroom Libraries, Upgrading of Project Management Capacity and School
Improvement Grants). Despite significant improvements during the last two years, when the project was
largely executed, some important project components could not be fully implemented due to initial staff
resistance and low priority assigned to the project.
8. Lessons Learned
The following lessons can be drawn from the project experience.
*  Simplicity of project design. A project directed at improving educational quality should be designed
with a limited number of components and with as few implementation agencies as possible, and should
have enough flexibility to be easily adapted to changing requirements of a dynamic education system.
The experience of this project shows that it is not enough to have a good sector study and well
identified educational needs if the project design does not provide for effective implementation capacity
on the part of the borrower.
*  Implementation management capacity. As in this case, with the Bank and the IDB financing parallel
projects for improvement of the Basic Education System, a Project Coordination Unit is frequently
charged with responsibility for implementing multiple operations with diverse sources of financing. In
most cases, this arrangement makes sense in terms of optimizing coordination of similar activities
within the education sector, providing continuity and benefiting from experience, and reducing
- 12 -



operational expenses. But it also can lead to operational paralysis if a weak and untrained PCU
becomes overwhelmed by projects that are too complex, with a large number of components and of
executing agencies. Projects need not only to be simple in design, but to make sure that the PCU is
adequately and competently staffed, has efficient procedures and technical and financial controls, and
management training relevant to the project is provided.
*   Introduction of educational innovation. School improvement grants have been widely acclaimed and
are reported to be highly successful in other Bank financed projects as a tool for strengthening the
quality and effectiveness of education at the local level. Grants of additional funds for
school-originated teaching proposals are known to encourage competitiveness and creativeness on the
part of teachers and students to propose their own solutions to problems of school quality. In this
project, however, the experience was not successful in this respect. During field visits of Bank
supervision only a few cases were identified of school projects involving real innovative proposals such
as the use of recycled materials to protect the environment. For the most part projects were limited to
the financing of standard shopping lists of electronic and other classroom equipment, largely provided
by the supervisors responsible for promoting the program. At the beginning, the project failed to
develop a clear understanding on the part of the teachers and the leadership of the value of
supplementary educational financing based upon autonomous assessment of local weaknesses and
needs. While a group of teachers and supervisors were selected to receive specialized training in Spain
on the implementation of a successful School Improvement Grants program, they were not kept in their
positions upon their retum, because of a government change. Projects involving innovation must
ensure that the objectives and the criteria for selection are clearly understood and embraced by the
potential beneficiaries and the authorities managing the project, and that technical capacity developed
toward project objectives is kept in the system.
3   Definition of institutional roles. For a quality improvement project that involves direct interventions
in the operation of an educational system and changes in the behavior of key actors in the system, it is
important to engage the support of all the agencies and Ministry staff having operational
responsibilities, even if the design and preparation tasks are commissioned to outside consultants.
3   Clarity of project implementation procedures. It is important that project implementation norms and
proce4ures be fully understood and accepted by local authorities at the time of project preparation, and
that local project management staff be fully trained at the outset to properly apply administrative and
financial management procedures, including procurement and disbursement. Special care should be
taken during preparation to ensure that all management arrangements are worked out in detail, and all
intended implementation agencies are involved in the process.
*   Continuity of project management. Successful implementation of the project is highly dependent on
the stability of key management staff, both at the local and Bank levels. The project implementation
organization should be located high enough in the Ministry hierarchy to have easy access to the
decision levels, and to permit fluid, constructive dialog with other operational units.
*   Role of supervision missions. Bank supervision missions should be geared to provide technical
support to local implementation staff in order to keep the basic concepts of project design on track or to
agree on mutually acceptable adjustments as required, and to resolve questions of administrative detail
which may be delaying or impeding project implementation. The missions should include technical and
procurement and financial specialists as required, especially in the initial stages of project
implementation.
- 13 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Evaluaci6n de los principales logros del proyecto
Introduccion
El Proyecto de "Calidad de la Educaci6n Basica", al concluir en el 2000 se puede apreciar que
adquiri6 4.8 millones de ejemplares de libros de literatura mas 1.006,189 ejemplares de matematica y
lengua para una poblaci6n estudiantil atendida de 800,000 alumnos, 58,000 docentes vinculados al
programa y 818 escuelas atendidas. Se fortaleci6 la expansi6n del programa "Plan Lector" de Cajas
Viajeras ofreciendo libros al aula y al hogar, atendiendo a 16,435 docentes; 503,587 alumnos; 2,719
escuelas, creando puntos de prdstano y actualmente dispone de 1,026 ejemplares en 189 colecciones para
193,914 libros en circulaci6n. Se desarrollaron Programnas de Radio- Matematica-Interactiva, que lograron
una cobertura nacional Ilegando a 52,500 aulas, y se capacitaron a 94,000 docentes. Se concluy6 el censo
de Bienes (activos, terrenos y equipo fisico) y de Personal (PRYDME) que ofreceran las bases para dar
inicio a un proceso de descentralizaci6n del ME y se logr6 la plataforma tecnol6gica de hardware y
software (SISE) tanto a Nivel Central como en los Estados. Por otra parte, se posee en la actualidad un
Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del Rendimiento Estudiantil que evalu6 a una muestra representativa a
nivel nacional y cubri6 los 3, 6 y 90 grados, ofreciendo informnaci6n clave en las areas de Lengua y
Matematica.
A.  CONTRIBUCION APORTADA POR EL DESARROLLO DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y
RESULTADOS ALCANZADOS
1. Objetivos del Proyecto
Su objetivo inicial se centr6 en: a) incrementar el rendimiento estudiantil, b) reducir el indice de
repetici6n y abandono de estudios, c) aumentar la tasa de graduados en la educaci6n basica, mejorando la
calidad de la educaci6n y la eficiencia adrninistrativa, d) fortalecer el papel normativo del Ministerio de
Educaci6n en el desarrollo de la politica del sector educativo y e) desarrollar la capacidad de los Estados
para manejar el sistema educativo de manera eficiente.
Se inician las gestiones de elaboraci6n del proyecto en 1991 y es a finales de 1993 cuando se firma
el prestamo, por un monto total de US$125.0 millones y tanto el Banco Mundial como el Gobiemo de la
Republica de Venezuela, se comprometen a cancelar cada uno el 50% (US$89.5 millones). La evaluaci6n
en 1995 de "Termino Medio" permiti6 conocer que solo se habia ejecutado el 3.6 % de todo el proyecto, y
se genera una redirecci6n del Plan Estrat6gico, creando la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (UCEP) y
las unidades coordinadoras regionales (UCERs). De igual formna se busc6 agilizar los tramites
administrativos que habian dificultado su ejecuci6n logrando acuerdos con FONVIS. Para 1997 se realiza
una reestructuraci6n por la baja ejecuci6n del proyecto (9,6%) ante dificultades administrativas, financieras
y limitaciones intemas con FONVIS. Para el mismo ano el Gobiemo Nacional acord6 con el Banco
Mundial una reduccion de US$40.0 millones del prestamo quedando los aportes de parte y parte por un
monto de US$69.4 millones. Este pr6stamo tenia fecha de culminaci6n el 30 de Junio de 1999, pero en
Mayo del mismo aino, se acuerda una pr6rroga hasta el 30 de Abril del 2000. Una vez superadas estas
dificultades la ejecuci6n se increment6 en un 36% en 1998; hasta llegar a un 70% para el 2000 (Annex 2).
2. Revisi6n de objetivos.
No se realizaron revisiones a los objetivos.
- 14 -



3. Componentes originales
I- Desarrollo de Materiales de Instrucci6n: Su objetivo es poner materiales de instrucci6n, al
alcance de los estudiantes y maestros de escuelas rurales y urbanas marginales. Incorpor6 los siguientes
Subcomponentes:
1-Libros de Texto- Su objetivo se centro en mejorar el diseino, producci6n y seleccion de libros de
textos y proceder a su distribuci6n, proporcionar materiales de lectura. (12.080 millones de libros).
2-Materiales educativos complementarios (Materiales no impresos) ejecutado por CENAMiEC: otros
materiales didacticos necesarios para asegurar la experiencia de aprendizaje relevantes, como libros de
lectura, juegos educativos, afiches y otros recursos pedag6gicos de uso colectivo en aula. (8,600 escuelas
con 15 nifnos en promedio) -Plan Piloto (4 o 5 Estados).
3-Radio interactiva -Matematica-(CENAMEC): se contempl6 la producci6n de 150 programas para los
tres primeros grados de la primera etapa de educaci6n basica, con una duraci6n diaria de 25 minutos. Se
contempla cobertura de 7,200 unidades escolares
4-Plan Lector de Cajas Viajeras (FUNDALECTURA): contribuye a la adquisici6n del proceso de
lecto-escritura y a la promoci6n de la lectura en la primera etapa de educaci6n basica. Se previo la
adquisici6n de 277 colecciones que constituyen la Caja y la formaci6n de 7,492 maestros en la utilizaci6n
de los libros. Se benefician directamente alrededor de 300 mil alumnos y familiares.
5-Bibliotecas de Aula (1993) -FUNDALECTURA-, ejecutado por Biblioteca Nacional y luego por ME,
su objetivo es dotar de materiales irnpresos complementarios y libros informativos, a 2,570 escuelas rurales
(581,940 y 1.191,080 libros de aula).
II-Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos-
Capacitaci6n de supervisores, directores de escuela y docentes en la preparaci6n de programas de
ensenianza y sus manuales para docentes y uso de materiales didacticos y textos escolares. Debe fomentar
una reforma de las practicas de formacion docentes y beneficiara a 106,434 maestros.
I-Desarrollo Institucional su objetivo era readecuar estructuras, procesos, funciones y practicas
del ME, hecho por el cual debia: Ilevar a cabo auditorias administrativas, apoyar la modernizaci6n y
reestructuraci6n del Ministerio, desarrollar canales de comunicaci6n entre el Gobiemo Central y los estados
a traves de un sistema de informaci6n para administradores y apoyar el establecimiento de un sistema
modemo de evaluaci6n de estudiantes.
i.     Modernizaci6n de la Capacidad Gerencial del Ministerio: busc6 reforzar funciones claves en el
nivel central y los Estados para administrar personal, planificar y programar, ofrecer una administraci6n
presupuestaria y fmanciera, monitoreo y evaluaci6n. Ello incluye estudios de leyes y reglamentos y
politicas a modificar para efectuar la descentralizaci6n.
ii.    Fondo de Mejoras a las Escuelas: engendrar una mayor participaci6n local por parte de las
escuelas para buscarle soluci6n a problemas claves de calidad escolar. Esta participaci6n debia ser
exhortada por medio de una mayor autonomia de decisi6n para utilizar recursos financieros no relacionados
a los gastos de personal. En 1993 se denominan "Proyectos de Mejoramiento Educativo" PME- y busca
alcanzar una cobertura de 2,063 planteles ubicados en diferentes zonas.
IV-Estudios de Efectividad Escolar: Financiar estudios dirigidos a expandir el acceso a la
educaci6n de Media Diversificada y Profesional, al igual que seminarios de planificaci6n para discutir las
recomendaciones para la prosecuci6n de la educaci6n, articulando el nivel de Basica con Media
Diversificada y Profesional.
- 15 -



4. Componentes revisados
I-Desarrollo de Materiales de Instrucci6n- Libros deTextos- Fue incorporado en el
subcomponente de Bibliotecas de aula en el afno 1997.
LI-Fortalecimiento Institucional (antes Desarrollo Institucional): Su objetivo se dirigi6 a
fortalecer la capacidad de, mejorar la capacidad gerencial del ME y de las Secretarias o Direcciones
Estadales con la finalidad de disponer de un sistema institucional capaz de administrar eficientemente la
educaci6n en el Ambito nacional y estadal, y asi poder concretar el proceso de descentralizaci6n. Los
subcomponentes quedaron modificados y redefinidos como:
i.     Modernizaci6n de la capacidad de gesti6n (PRYD-MNE). A partir de Abril -1995- se reformula
nuevamente este subcomponente de la siguiente manera: a) Redefinici6n de la visi6n estrategica de la
gesti6n de la educaci6n. b) Elaboraci6n del plan de reorganizaci6n del sector educativo publico. c)
Fornulaci6n del plan de implementaci6n de la reorganizaci6n.
ii.    Innovaciones Educativas. En 1995, se modific6 articula.ndolo con los Proyectos Pedag6gicos de
Plantel (PPP), cuyos objetivos eran transformar las practicas pedag6gicas del plantel para mejorar los
resultados de la gesti6n escolar elimiinando los aspectos de la gerencia, administraci6n y organizaci6n de los
proyectos, enfocando su acci6n hacia propuestas pedag6gicas, con la finalidad de orientarlos hacia
acciones del aula y de la escuela.
IV-Estudios de Preinversi6n: camnbian de nombre y en el aho 1995 pasan a ser fmanciados
por la donaci6n Japonesa. Las modificaciones se dirigieron a concentrar los estudios en tres areas: a)
Ampliaci6n de la Cobertura escolar del nivel; b) Mejoramiento de la calidad de la practica pedag6gica,
incluy6 Curriculum; Capacitaci6n; Dotaci6n. c) Fortalecimiento de la Gesti6n de los Planteles y se
defini6 los diferentes estudios que se debian de realizar.
El Proyecto estaba estimado inicialmente en el equivalente a US$ 178.800,000 y en 1997, el Gobiemo
Nacional acord6 con el BM una reducci6n de US$40.000,000, quedando el monto total del prestamo en
US$138.830,000 y el pari-pasu constituido por un monto de US$69.400,000, posteriornente se realiza
un 2 ajuste que lo lleva a US$59.000 Millones.
5. Calidad de la participacion
Rango alcanzado -ICR-: Satisfactorio
Podemos senialar, al analizar los objetivos del proyecto que la primnera dificultad que nos surge
es que el concepto de "Calidad de la Educaci6n Basica", ya que estuvo defmido por los macro-
indicadores que estaban afectando al sistema educativo pero, no estuvo conceptualizado en lo que ello
significaba para la Educaci6n Basica. Esto permite hacer las siguientes preguntas, ,Se relacionaba este
concepto con calidad de los maestros? Con Z,Calidad de las estructuras organizativas? 6Calidad de los
estudiantes del nivel de bAsica? Aparentemente, "Calidad de la Educaci6n Basica" se referia a TODO,
hecho por el cual desde su concepci6n se presentaron dificultades para establecer estrategias
operativas para lograr los objetivos deseados. La poca claridad en la definici6n de "calidad" afect6 la
asignaci6n de prioridades, hecho por el cual todo era importante. Otro aspecto a considerar fue, la falta
de integraci6n entre los objetivos generales del proyecto y los objetivos especificos de cada componente
y subcomponente ya que, la magnitud de cada uno de ellos hizo que se perdiera de vista el objetivo
central. Por otra parte, cada componente tuvo unidades ejecutoras distintas, dispersandose o
duplicandose acciones. Cost6 mucho que las 23 Gobemaciones y Zonas Educativas del interior del
pais, se sintieran identificados con el proyecto, hecho que trajo muchos atrasos. La falta de
experiencia, lo amnbicioso del proyecto con cuatro componentes y 10 subcomponentes hizo dificil su
supervici6n, ejecuci6n y control, autn cuando en forina parcial se lograron los objetivos, hecho por el
- 16 -



cual su desempefio es satisfactorio.
6. Riesgos del Proyecto
Se puede sefialar que no se estaba preparado para asumir los niveles de exigencia que tiene
gerenciar un Proyecto de esta magnitud, sin experiencia en la dinamica que se exige, la falta de
preparaci6n tecnica, administrativa, fmanciera y gerencial, que se fue superando a medida que
transcurria el tiempo, generando retrasos notables durante casi cuatro afios, el cambio de personal
entrenado al cambiar el Gobierno, las trabas administrativas extemas (normativas Legales) e intemas
(administraci6n ME) retrasaron la fluidez con que debe llevarse un proyecto. La poca infraestructura
que apoyara el trabajo, fue otro elemento que incidio en los resultados, teniendo que crearse sobre la
marcha, una unidad (UCEP) ejecutora de programas con los Organismos Multilaterales, disefiada para
trabajar por proyectos. No habia personal con experiencia que conociera las normas y requerimientos
administrativos exigidos por las Multilaterales, sin contar con las dificultades del contexto que
entorpecio su ejecuci6n y retardaban la cancelaci6n de obligaciones contraidas, no acordes con la
dinainica requerida.
D. Evoluci6n de los Objetivos y Resultados
Para lograr un analisis objetivo de los logros, se evidenci6 en el proyecto una falla
metodol6gica inicial, para evaluar "calidad" ya que debo tener paranetros para realizar mediciones
cuantitativas y cualitativas, pero al no contar con dichos parimetros ni con evaluaciones previas ni
posteriores en cada componente, que permitieran conocer sus efectos en la calidad de la educaci6n, nos
vemos restrmgidos a apreciar los resultados en funci6n de su cercania o no a los rangos cuantitativos
establecidos por los objetivos de cada componente y no en base a su incidencia en las mejoras de
calidad alcanzadas en la Educacion Basica. Esta falla metodol6gica no permite tener una clara
informacion sobre el impacto o mejoras alcanzadas en el nivel. De esta forma, al revisar indicadores
cuantitativos sobre calidad de la educaci6n, podemos observar que en el periodo comprendido entre los
anios 1980 hasta 1999, los niveles de deserci6n entre el 6 y 70 grado y la repitencia se mantienen
iguales sin variaci6n. La prosecuci6n ha mejorado pero, el rendimniento estudiantil es bajo y el nivel de
conocimientos en Matematica y Lengua refleja severas limitaciones en la comprensi6n de la Lengua y
de la Matematica. Para ese mismo afio se aplica otro instrumento de conocimiento sobre Historia de
Venezuela a una muestra de 4,443 estudiantes del uiltimo anlo de Media Diversificada y Profesional en
planteles puiblicos y privados y el estudio revela escasa comprensi6n lectora y pobre capacidad de
comunicaci6n escrita. (Fundaci6n Polar, 1996). Como podemos observar los indicadores no reflejan
mejoras en la Educaci6n Bisica.
1-Resultados por componente
A-Desarrollo de Materiales de Instrucci6n (en 1997 cambian su nombre a Recursos para el
Aprendizaje). Su objetivo fundamental es poner materiales de instrucci6n, al alcance de los
estudiantes y maestros de escuelas rurales y urbanas marginales. Sus resultados los analizaremos en
funci6n de sus subcomponentes, pudiendo sefialar que Libros de Texto, Bibliotecas de aula y
Materiales Educativos no impresos, tuvieron un desempefio insatisfactorio, pero Radio
Interactiva-Matematica y Plan Lector de Cajas Viaj eras alcanzaron la meta y la superaron. Entre los
factores que afectaron su desempefio estan aspectos administrativos y fmanciero y sobre todo la
rotaci6n de los Coordinadores de los subcomponentes. Esto permite evaluar al componente con
resultados insatisfactorios.
A.1-Bibliotecas de aula (incorporo Libros de texto en 1997).- Ejecutada por Biblioteca
Nacional-FUNDALECTURA- yposteriormente por el ME-. El objetivo de Libros de textos fue,
proporcionar 12,080,535 libros 10 hasta 9 grado. En 1997 es incorporado en Bibliotecas de Aula que
- 17 -



debia cubrir la adquisici6n de 581,940 libros para escuelas unitarias y 1.191,080 libros para librerias
concentradas. En este aiio se plante6 cubrir a 2,570 escuelas rurales concentradas y unitarias, 1,612
titulos para 700 centros y 17,000 aulas adicionales de libros informativos. Este subcomponente debia
cubrir un total de 13.853,555 libros (12.080,535 +581,940 + 1.191,080 Libros) y adquiri6 4.8
millones de ejemplares de literatura y 1.006,189 ejemplares de matematica y lengua que seria el
41.91% de lo requerido, hecho por el cual present6 resultados insatisfactorios.
A.2-Radio Interactiva-Matemitica -ejecutado por CENAMEC-. Contempl6 como
objetivos, la producci6n de 150 programas para los tres primeros grados de la primera etapa de
educaci6n basica, con duraci6n diaria de 25 minutos, y cobertura de 7,200 unidades escolares. La
experiencia fue muy exitosa pudiendo atender a 2.17 millones de estudiantes, 43,200 aulas de 1, 20,
3er grado de la primera etapa de educaci6n basica, logrando Ilegar a 52,500 aulas durante el segundo
semestre del anio 1999, se distribuyeron 52,500 radios, el mismo niumero de guias para el docente y se
entreg6 82,300 cajitas de materiales complementarios para uso del alumno. Este subcomponente
super6 la meta, con 135,000 programas radiales y 75,000 docentes capacitados.
A.3-Materiales Educativos No Impresos- ejecutado por CENAMiEC-. Su objetivo es
ofrecer otros materiales didacticos necesarios para asegurar la experiencia de aprendizaje relevantes en
los estudiantes, tales como libros de lectura, juegos educativos y otros recursos pedag6gicos de uso
colectivo en aula. Se plante6 una cobertura de 8,650 escuelas con un aproximado de 15 nifios por
escuela, con un -Plan Piloto para 4 o 5 Estados. Este subcomponente tuvo resultados insatisfactorios,
ya que s6lo logr6 cubrir el 2.32% de los objetivos establecidos.
A.4-Plan Lector de Cajas Viajeras -ejecutado por FUNDALECTURA-. Su objetivo
fundamental es contribuir a la adquisici6n del proceso de lecto-escritura y a la promoci6n de la lectura
en la primera etapa de educaci6n basica. Sus objetivos plantearon la adquisici6n de 277 colecciones
que constituyen la Caja Viajera y la formaci6n de 7,492 maestros en la utilizaci6n de los libros. Se
plantearon beneficiar 300 mil alumnos y aumentar el acceso a recursos de ensenanza, por parte de los
profesores. Este subcomponente logr6 cumplir todas las metas y superarlas, ya que cubri6 los 23
estados, se vincul6 a 1,088 escuelas, capacit6 a 8,083 docentes y llegaron a aproximadamente 415,000
alumnos, por lo cual se clasifica como muy satisfactorio. Podemos considerar al componente de
Materiales de Instruccion como no satisfactorio, ya que s6lo 2 de los cinco subcomponentes lograron
los objetivos establecidos en el plan inicial.
B-Capacitaci6n de Docentes: (ejecutado porel ME.). En este componente pudimos
identificar variaci6n en los ejecutores, ya que inicialmente le correspondia a CENAMEC y
posteriormente se le asign6 a la Direcci6n General Sectorial del ME. Para Noviembre de 1997 se
inicia la capacitaci6n de docentes y para el afio 2000, logr6 capacitar a 94.000 docentes de los 106.434
contemplados en sus objetivos, ello indica un logro de un 88,32% de ejecuci6n del componente, lo que
permite considerarlo satisfactorio. Este componente present6 las siguientes dificultades: i) ausencia
de planificaci6n de la capacitaci6n; ii) poca integraci6n de otros componentes que tambien
proporcionaron capacitaci6n; iii) ausencia de seguimiento y evaluaci6n; iv) Se llev6 a cabo en forina
masiva durante 1997-1998 y no se tiene informaci6n sobre los efectos, cualitativos o cuantitativos; v)
Toda la capacitaci6n fue planificada en el Nivel Central, con poca participaci6n de las Gobemaciones y
Zonas Educativas.    C-Fortalecimiento Institucional, (ejecutadopor el ME). Su objetivo esti
dirigido al mejoramiento de la administraci6n del Sistema Educativo, con una incidencia indirecta en la
Educaci6n Basica y la calidad de la misma, hecho por el cual alguno de sus subcomponentes deberian
haberse dirigido al "Fortalecimiento Institucional de los planteles", tal y como estuvo planteado en los
borradores iniciales, donde se hubiera buscado mejorar la parte organizativa y administrativa de la
gesti6n del Plantel. Este componente, por incidencia en el funcionamiento administrativo del
- 18-



Ministerio de Educaci6n, tuvo muy buen impacto intemo pero, poco podemos senialar sobre su
incidencia en la "Calidad de la Educaci6n Basica" que pareciera ser indirecta y a largo plazo. Este
componente logr6 un rendimniento satisfactorio, ya que llevo a cabo la creaci6n de una Unidad
Administrativa que coordin6 y gerenci6 el proyecto, tanto a nivel central (se crea en 1995 la UCEP) y
de los 23 Estados (UCERs), agilizando tramites administrativos requeridos para la ejecuci6n de cada
uno de los componentes, reportindole directamente al Ministro. La presencia de la UCEP genero
logros durante el periodo 1997-1999, teniendo hoy en dia profesionales entrenados para trabajar con
normas y procedimientos requeridos por los Organismos Multilaterales y en las UCERs se registr6 un
reconocimiento por parte de las comunidades y escuelas rurales. Se puede apreciar serios esfuerzos
para iniciar el proceso de descentralizaci6n, se logr6 la sistematizacion de la plataforma tecnol6gica,
una infraestructura de sistemas de informaci6n en marcha y el inicio de mayor interacci6n entre el nivel
central y los Estados (Secretarias, Gobemaciones, Municipios y Zonas Educativas). Los Proyectos
Pedag6gicos de Plantel han generado un proceso de apertura por parte del docente hacia la concepcion
de proyectos, se posee un sistema de medici6n del rendimiento estudiantil que ofrece informaci6n
confiable, representativa y se ofrecen estudios con informacion para lograr articular el nivel de Basica
con Media Diversificada y Profesional.
C.1-Modernizaci6n de la Capacidad de Gestion (PRYD-ME). Su objetivo se dirigi6 a
fortalecer la capacidad de operar, administrar, planificar y controlar el sistema educativo. Despues de
ajustes y redefmiciones en 1997 terminaron por concentrarse en la realizaci6n de Auditorias previas a
la descentralizacion (personal y bienes) que fueron concluidos para 1999 una por cada estado (23) y a
final del afio se cont6 con 10 estudios. Para el 2000 se lograron elaborar los estudios de (personal y
bienes) de cinco Estados. Podemos considerar que el rendimiento de 6ste subcomponente ha sido
satisfactorio.
C.2-Reorganizaci6n del Ministerio de Educaci6n Se realizaron acciones claves relacionadas
con los aspectos administrativos intemos, se gener6 una propuesta de reestructuraci6n del ME que fue
aprobada, se crearon cuatro Viceministerios y se elabor6 el reglamento intemo organico y la UCEP
sera transformada en una Direcci6n para trabajar directamente con los Organismos Multilaterales.
Consideramos que debe de continuarse revisando dicha estructura, asi como profundizando en lo que se
refiere a estructura de cargos. Los resultados de este subcomponente pueden considerarse
satisfactorios.
C.3-Sistema de Informaci6n del Sector Educativo (SISE). Sus objetivos son: generar el
sistema de hardware, software y debe de disefiarse de acuerdo a la informaci6n que se requiere, en el
marco de la descentralizaci6n. Se logr6 la interconexi6n entre las zonas educativas con el ME y queda
estructurada la Base de Datos de Personal, Presupuesto y Control de Estudio. Se desarrollo el sistema
de Administraci6n, se aplic6 reingenieria de procesos para estandarizar procedimientos. En el aflo
2000 se puede apreciar que el ME cuenta con la infraestructura tecnol6gica necesaria para la operaci6n
de los sistemas desarrollados (nivel central y zonas educativas) y con cuatro sistemas de informaci6n en
funcionamiento (estadisticas, recursos humanos, financiero y control de estudios) y personal tecnico
capacitado para su operaci6n. Este subcomponente se considera como altamente satisfactorio en sus
logros.
C.4-Innovaciones Educativas (proyecto Pedag6tgico de Plantel-PPP). Su objetivo inicial era
cubrir 2,063 planteles en la soluci6n de problemAtica educativa. Para el anio 2000, este
subcomponente logr6 beneficiar a 500 escuelas Bolivarianas con un plan de dotaci6n y a 1,050
escuelas que lograron elaborar los PPP de las 2,063 contempladas en el inicio del proyecto, hecho por
el cual su nivel de ejecuci6n es de un 50.89 %, que lo ubica con resultados insatisfactorios, pero inici6
un proceso de movilizaci6n del docente a tratar de entender lo que era un proyecto.
- 19 -



C.5-Medici6n del Rendimiento Estudiantil (SINEA). Sus objetivos son proporcionar
inforrnaci6n peri6dica, valida y confiable sobre el rendimiento estudiantil en Matematica, Castellano y
Literatura con el fm de promover los insumos al proceso de toma de decisiones en el nivel de Educaci6n
Basica. Este Subcomponente super6 las metas establecidas en el proyecto, auin cuando inici6 su
ejecuci6n en 1998 y aport6 informaci6n valiosa sobre una muestra representativa de estudiantes de 30
grado (55,000), de 60 (57,000) grado en matematica y lengua (48,000 del 90 grado en planteles publicos
(urbanos y rurales) de 23 estados de planteles oficiales y privados de zonas rurales, urbanas y
urbano-marginales. Para 1999 el sistema estadistico ya estaba operando en 23 estados y concluy6 una
prueba en el area de valores. Podemos clasificar su ejecuci6n como altamente satisfactoria.
Al evaluar el componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional podemos observar que se adquiri6,
tanto en la UCEP, como en las UCERs experiencia y conocimientos para manejar proyectos con
Organismos Multilaterales y al evaluar los cinco subcomponentes que to confonnan, dos de ellos
quedaron clasificados como muy satisfactorios (Sistemas de Informaci6n del Sector Educativo-SISE;
Medici6n del Rendimiento Estudiantil-SINEA), los otros dos obtuvieron resultados satisfactorios
(Modernizaci6n de la Capacidad de Gesti6n; Reorganizaci6n del Ministerio de Educaci6n;) y uno con
resultados no satisfactorios (Proyectos Pedag6gicos Plantel). Este componente se ubic6 en la categoria
de satisfactorio.
D- Estudios de Pre-inversi6n: Su objetivo principal estuvo dirigido a evaluar la situaci6n de
la educaci6n Media Diversificada y Profesional y los programas de formaci6n, con la finalidad de
proponer politicas educacionales adecuadas. En 1998 los 35 estudios* fueron analizados y resumidos
en un documento base sobre el diagn6stico de la educaci6n Media, Diversificada y Profesional, se
contrat6 un estudio para deterninar la problematica de los adolescentes y se elabor6 una propuesta
sobre la "Gesti6n Aut6noma de los Planteles". Para finales del anio 1998 se realiz6 una consulta a nivel
nacional, para la reforma curricular a implantarse en el nivel medio. No hubo mas actividades durante
el periodo 1999 y 2000. Este componente permiti6 conocer la situaci6n del Nivel de Media
Diversificada y Profesional y entender mAs la complejidad del sistema educativo . Logr6 una ejecuci6n
satisfactoria ya que no todos los estudios cubrieron los niveles de calidad requeridos. *(anexos).
2-Impacto en el desarrollo Institucional
Consideramos que este Proyecto gener6 un invaluable aprendizaje organizacional dentro del ME,
ya que tuvieron que trabajar en funci6n a resultados ajustados a un plan de acci6n que involucraba costos
vs productos. Era de esperar que por la falta de experiencia del ME en trabajar bajo parametros de los
organismos multilaterales, se presentaran muchas dificultades, ya que se tuvo que hacer frente a procesos
lentos y burocraticos internos que impedian el flujo de los fondos, al igual que enfrentarse a la rigidez de
las Leyes, generando procesos administrativos (Fundaciones; FONVIS y PNUD) que permitieran ser mas
diligentes para cubrir las demandas del Proyecto. Gener6 presi6n para resolver necesidades inminentes de
modemizaci6n del ME, tanto en la parte estructural organizativa, como en su plataforna de sistemas.
Pudo experimentar las ventajas de manejar estrategias outsorcing (extramuros), utilizando consultores o
Instituciones que pudieran ofrecerles la tecnologia que internamente seria muy costoso generar (en tiempo
y esfuerzo). Se logr6 que las UCERs fueran reconocidas en los 23 Estados como generadoras de apoyo
tecnol6gico, y en la actualidad cuentan con apoyo de las Gobemaciones de los Estados. Hoy en dia el ME
posee experiencia en proyectos a largo plazo con financiamiento multilateral.
B.    Factores Importantes que afectaron la implementacion y los resultados del proyecto
1-Factores fuera del control del Banco Mundial o del Ministerio de Educacion.
Durante los primeros anos del Proyecto el ME no se apropi6 de la conducci6n del proyecto,
cambios de Gobierno, generaron cambio de Ministros de Educaci6n y en cada uno de ellos no estuvo
- 20 -



presente una clara definici6n de una politica educativa, cambiaron el personal que se encontraba ejerciendo
funciones gerenciales y tecnicas, esto gener6 retrasos en las aprobaciones de los presupuestos, falta de
conocimniento de los nuevos funcionarios en las implicaciones del proyecto, normativas y en algunos casos
dificultades con licitaciones nacionales e intemacionales. De igual forma, se afect6 el funcionamiento de
las UCERs ya que los cambios de Gobemadores en los Estados, generaban cambio en el personal y con ello
se perdia el entrenamiento, la experticia y se debia comenzar de nuevo. Otra limitaci6n fue la falta de
mecanismos de coordinaci6n para gerenciar proyectos multilaterales. Por otro lado, los fondos de la
contrapartida local regularmente fueron postergados, sobre todo lo referente a recursos ordinarios
contemplados en el Presupuesto del ME. Otros factores a considerar fueron, la poca experiencia de
Venezuela en trabajar con Organismos Multilaterales, y en lugar de iniciar su experiencia con un proyecto
de menores dimensiones y manejable, lo hizo con un proyecto muy ambicioso, amplio, ambiguo en sus
terminos ("calidad") con muchos componentes, muchos agentes que intervinieron, que lo hizo dificil de
manejar. De igual forma la falta de supervisi6n estrecha por parte del Staff de Banco Mundial durante los
primeros afios (1994-1996) generaron un real estancamiento en su ejecuci6n (3.6%).
2-Factores generales sobre controles Ilevados a cabo por el Gobierno de Venezuela.
Para 1996 se pudo constatar que Venezuela para tramitar un proyecto con apoyo financiero de
organismos multilaterales, requeria realizar 270 pasos burocrAticos antes de comenzar a ejecutarse los
desembolsos, hecho que explica su pobre ejecuci6n durante el periodo 1994-1996. En Noviembre de 1996
se sefiala en el Universal (Cuerpo 2- primera pagina) que los factores que mas afectan los retraso en los
desembolsos son: i) retrasos para la firma de convenios; ii) la no disponibilidad de fondos del Ejecutivo
(aprobaci6n parlarnentaria de los presupuestos y las leyes de credito publico); iii) pasos engorrosos y
repetitivos entre el Gobiemo y el Congreso. Es por ello que se comienzan a utilizar las figuras de los
organismos adscritos: FONVIS; Fundalectura; Fundaescolar (Fundapreescolar); CENAMEC, para
solventar estos problemas burocraticos.
3-Factores generales que involucran a la Agencia de Control (UCEP).
Las constantes dificultades que se presentaron en la recepci6n oportuna de los fondos de la
contrapartida local, en oportunidades puso en peligro la ejecuci6n de actividades previstas y el aporte
correspondiente a la contraparte (Banco Mundial). La rotaci6n del personal con experiencia y entrenado,
tanto en las UCERs, como en la UCEP, afect6 considerablemente la ejecuci6n y dinamica del proyecto.
Fue muy dificil para los profesionales de la UCEP y de las UCERs realizar seguimiento constante de los
procesos, sobre todo por la falta de comprensi6n de lo que implica la variable tiempo, en un proyecto con
este nivel de complejidad. Otro factor que afect6 la ejecuci6n fue la cantidad de agentes, involucrados tales
como: Cordiplan, Hacienda (Direcci6n de credito publico y OCEPRE), Biblioteca Nacional, Cenamnec,
Fundalectura, Fundaescolar; FONVIS, Congreso de la Repfublica; Gobemaciones de Estado (23); y del
ME, las distintas Direcciones (Direcci6n General, OSPP, Finanzas, Programas Educativos y las 23 Zonas
Educativas.
4-Costo y financiamiento.
El Proyecto estaba estimado inicialmente en el equivalente a US$ 178.800,000 y en 1997, el
Gobierno Nacional acord6 con el Banco Mundial una reducci6n de US$ 40.000,000, quedando el monto
total del pr6stamo en US$138.830,000 y el pari-pasu conformado por US$69.400.000 para cada una de las
partes. La ejecuci6n real al 31 Marzo del 2000, es de US$ 80.880,000, para esa fecha se reflej6 como
ejecutado o comprometido, por parte del Banco Mundial US$ 57.42 millones lo que corresponde a un
70.99% y por un monto de US$23,46 Millones, el 29% ejecutado o comprometido por el Gobiemo de
Venezuela. Para el 31 de Mayo el aporte del Banco Mundial (Anexo 3) el aporte real quedo en US$42.14
Millones que corresponde del total del prestamo (US$59 Millones) al 71,62% y con respecto al aporte
Local el monto del pari-pasu , que ain falta por rendir llega a un total de US$37.10 Millones (Anexo 3)
- 21 -



que llega a un 65,67% (datos preliminares sujetos a revisi6n).
F. Sostenibilidad
1-Seguimiento y expansi6n del proyecto.
En el componente de Materiales de Instrucci6n, podemos sefialar que los dos subcomponentes
exitosos: Plan Lector de Cajas Viajeras plantean como nuevos objetivos, incrementar la red de prestamos
de libros, promover el proyecto "Lectura para Todos" y generar un plan piloto para "Didactica de la
lengua", su seguimiento estara en funci6n de los cambios generados. Radio Interactiva-Matematica-
propone lograr mayor financiamiento de los programas radiales, por parte de cada Estado, incorporar
6,000 aulas nuevas en ler grado para el periodo 2000-2001. Bibliotecas de Aula. Materiales no impresos
v Libros de Texto. al ser subcomponentes poco exitosos, seran reformulados; pero requieren financiamiento
externo. Capacitaci5n. sera asumido por el ME para que tenga sostenibilidad y exige fmanciamiento
externo. Fortalecimiento Institucional, los subcomponentes de Modernizaci6n de la capacidad de Gesti6n
(PRYD-ME) qued6 como unidad Staff que desaparecerA al concluir la reorganizaci6n del ME.
Innovaciones Educativas (PPP). fue asumido por el Viceministerio de Asuntos Educativos (ME), como
programa importante de su gesti6n y requiere reorientaci6n conceptual para generar logros de mayor
calidad. Sistemas de Informaci6n del Sector Educativo (SISE) se transforma en la Oficina Ministerial de
Informatica, que contara con presupuesto del ME. Medici6n del Rendimniento Estudiantil (SINEA) cubre
la necesidad de informaci6n valida y confiable sobre el rendirniento estudiantil y posee presupuesto para su
filtima evaluaci6n para Julio, pero requieren financiamiento extemo. La UCEP en la nueva estructura
organizativa del ME qued6 como Direcci6n de Relaciones con Organismos Multilaterales, dependiendo de
la Direcci6n del Despacho del Ministro. Los Estudios de Preinversi6n, requieren por sus costos de
financiamiento externo, hecho por el cual no tiene sostenibilidad.
2-De acuerdos transitorios a operaciones regulares
El componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional es el que logro generar que acuerdos transitorios
del proyecto se transfornaran en operaciones regulares, por intermedio de los subcomponentes que lo han
integrado (Modernizaci6n de la Capacidad de Gesti6n -PRYD-ME-; Sistemas de Informaci6n del Sector
Educativo-SISE; Medici6n del Rendimiento Estudiantil- SINEA), le ofrecen hoy en dia al Nivel Central
del ME, los conocimientos, experticia y capacidad para continuar dichos programas bajo su
administraci6n, transformandose de proyectos a programas que tendran continuidad en el tiempo. Otros
subcomponentes exitosos en -Materiales de Instrucci6n- lo son Radio Interactiva-Matematica- y Plan
Lector de Cajas Viajeras que tendran una cobertura mayor apoyados por CENAMEC y Biblioteca
Nacional. De igual forma se transformara la UCEP en una Direcci6n de Relaciones con Organismos
Multilaterales (seguin ultima propuesta) que darA continuidad a los acuerdos alcanzados.
G. Desempefio del Banco Mundial y del Prestatario
1-Desempeflo del Banco Mundial
Fase de Preparaci6n: El proyecto cont6 con muy buena asesoria por parte del Banco, iniciandose en 1991
y se identificaron con claridad cuales eran las debilidades mas importantes del Sistema Educativo
Venezolano y en 1993-Octubre se firma del contrato. Sin embargo, no se tom6 en cuenta la falta de
experiencia de Venezuela manejando proyectos con financiamiento Multilateral, hecho que ha debido
tomarse en cuenta desde el inicio, manejandose un Plan Estrat6gico y Operativo con altos nivel de
seguimiento y control y capacitaci6n del personal. Por otra parte, los especialistas que participaron en la
formulaci6n de la propuesta, fueron contratados externamente por el ME, generando un proyecto muy
complejo, con multiples subcomponentes ( 11) y dificil para ser manejado por una Instituci6n sin
experiencia. Podemos observar igualmente que para la fase de preparaci6n el Banco Mundial envi6 una
misi6n en el 91, cuatro en el 92 y dos en el 93 (26 funcionarios), hecho que indica el grado de importancia
- 22 -



y dedicaci6n ofrecido a su elaboraci6n. Supervisi6n: El avance del proyecto durante los tres primeros
ainos, no fue lo esperado aun cuando se enviaron cuatro misiones durante 1994 y 95 tratando de superar la
falta de experiencia del pafs, tanto a nivel de problematica legal, tramites administrativos y ejecuci6n
operativa de los componentes. Pero s6lo estuvo presente una Misi6n en 1996 y dos en 1997, afios en que la
ejecuci6n del proyecto lleg6 s6lo a 3.88%. Esto indica que un proyecto tan complejo requiri6 de una
supervisi6n mas estrecha sobre todo en estos primeros anios, cuando se estaban evidenciando problemas en
su ejecuci6n. En 1998 se intensifican las supervisiones tecnicas y comienzan a darse resultados que se
intensifican en 1999. En lineas generales podemos sefialar que, el Banco Mundial logr6 identificar desde
sus inicios, los problemas y riesgos que se podrian presentar en su ejecuci6n, y lo complejo del proyecto
permitia predecir la necesidad de una supervisi6n t6cnica, administrativa y financiera mas continua, tal y
como ocurri6 en la fase de preparaci6n.
2-Desempeno del Prestatario
Fase de Preparaci6n: Durante este periodo comprendido entre 1991 y 1993 uno de los grandes problemas
que confront6 el ME, fue no asumir el liderazgo del proyecto para darle coherencia, tanto es asi que se
reflejan muchas dificultades en la coordinaci6n entre los diferentes equipos que trabajan en funci6n de
elaborar los objetivos y contenidos de cada componente y subcomponente del proyecto. Se presentaron
dificultades en la comunicaci6n entre los grupos de trabajos integrada por actores del sector puiblico y del
privado, pero cuya permanencia no alcanzo la fase de ejecuci6n. Supervisi6n: Los aspectos que
dificultaron el avance del proyecto fue la ausencia de conocimientos y experiencia en lo que a procesos
administrativos y fmancieros sobre todo lo referido a controles sobre las normativas del Banco Mundial.
Por otra parte, los controles internos del ME, no se ajustaron a la dinamica que requiere la administraci6n
de proyectos. Esta falta de experiencia y conocimientos gener6 severos retrasos durante el periodo
1994-1997, ain cuando a partir de 1998-1999, una vez adquirida la experiencia y conocimientos, logr6
mnejorar considerablemente la supervisi6n ejercida en los componentes del proyecto y mejor6 su desempefno
en la ejecuci6n. Es importante destacar, que el proyecto cont6 con muchos agentes ejecutores (28), que no
sintieron que formaban parte de un proyecto y cuya supervisi6n fue un trabajo arduo y dificil.
H. Lecciones aprendidas.
El proyecto a considerarse a futuro, debe ser menos ambicioso y amplio, circunscribirse a areas
criticas, puntuales y especificas, con pocos componentes muy vinculados entre si, para poder generar
adecuados controles y ofrecer seguimiento constante a los procesos, al igual que minimizarse el numero de
agentes ejecutores. Que tenga enfasis en lineas de acci6n con efecto directo en los Planteles. Evitar la
rotaci6n de funcionarios y coordinadores que tanto danio le hacen a la continuidad del proyecto.
Desarrollar de sistemas de intercambio de informaci6n, para que todos los componentes del proyecto
puedan conocer el trabajo de los otros y se establezca una clara identificaci6n con los objetivos. Todos los
actores que formen parte del proyecto deben participar en su formulaci6n y en su ejecuci6n. Entrenamiento
constante y continuo para los coordinadores de los componentes y subcomponentes para que manejen las
normativas administrativas y financieras de los Organismos Multilaterales. Asistencia tecnica,
administrativa y financiera por parte de los Organismos Multilaterales en las areas de especializacion que
se necesite. Garantizar la disponibilidad presupuestaria de los recursos locales. Que el financiamiento
compartido con los Organismos Multilaterales, solo de soporte a un proyecto por Banco o se dirija el
financiamiento de un Banco a un nivel educativo a la vez.
1. Futuras operaciones MECD y el Banco Mundial.
Con respecto a Materiales de Instrucci6n, en los subcomponentes poco exitosos, tanto para
Bibliotecas de Aula como para Materiales educativos no impresos se redimensionaran sus objetivos y
cobertura. En Plan Lector de Cajas Viajeras se profundizara su cobertura a 200 Escuelas- y generaran el
Proyecto "Didactica de la Lengua". En Radio Interactiva se incorporan 6,000 aulas por afio. En
-23 -



Capacitaci6n los acuerdos a realizar incluiran un plan para la Formaci6n Permanente del Docente,
Evaluaciones Previas del Impacto de los Programas ya ejecutados, para poder ir identificando los progresos
o limitaciones. En la actualidad se cuenta con un sistema de Medici6n del Rendimiento Estudiantil
-SINEA, que debe contar con un presupuesto para que se mantenga su actual desempefio y se utilizari para
monitorear el resultado de la capacitaci6n y del uso de los materiales de instrucci6n, en el rendimiento
estudiantil. El componente de Fortalecimniento Institucional debera centrarse en generar mejoras en la
administraci6n de los Planteles y en la gesti6n realizada por el equipo directivo y la comunidad. Con
respecto al subcomponente de Innovaciones Educativas -PPP- se hace necesario realizar un
redinensionarniento con la fmalidad de que pueda ofrecer soluciones a los diversos problemas de la
localidad donde se encuentra inserto el plantel, involucrando a docentes, directores y comunidad, contando
con una retroalimentaci6n basado en un proceso investigativo y evaluativo permanente, buscando
fomentar por medio de la estrategia de proyectos y redes sociales, el desarrollo local sostenible. En cuanto
al componente de Estudios, estaran dirigidos a conocer los motivos que afectan los altos niveles de
repitencia, que se han mantenido constantes desde 1990 al 1999, con la fmalidad de generar los correctivos
respectivos.
(b) Cofinanciers.
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I impact Indicators:
IndicatoriMatux                   Proisctd In Ist PSR                   ActhaaLatest Estimate
Improved intemal efficiency of basic                                      Impact of project on efficiency indicators is
educabon resulting in:                                                     not yet evident due to late implementation of
- increased graduation rates.                                             quality components.
- reduced repetition and dropout.                                          Evaluation of Interactive Math program
- improvements in leaming achievement of                                  shows improvement in student learning
primary students.                                                          achievement.
Improvements in the management efficiency                                  Managerial capacity considerably improved
of both the MOE and state secretariats of                                  with successful implementation of
education.                                                                 information system and student assessment
system.
Output Indicators:
lndkaMa t                          P*       Ined Inlst               _ Actua_Latest Estimate
-TEXTBOOKS: 12.1 million textbooks to be  1.006,189 textbooks of Math and Language  1.006,189textbooksdistributed. Books
acquired and distributed             purchased and distributed.            included in classroom library packages
- CLASSROOM LIBRARIES: 1.8 million                                         6.193,201 textbooks and reference books
books (Textbook comnponent was induded in                                  distributed to classroom libraries
classroom libraries as of 1997)
2.371,101 textbooks and teachers guides
distributed to classroom libraries in rural
schools
- NONPRINTED DIDACTIC MATERIALS:                                           200 schools equipped with packages A and
2,630 units of Package A and 6,771 units of                                B, plus 1,000 schools equipped with national
Package B to be distributed                                                and state maps.
- INTERACTIVE MATHEMATICS: 43,280  4.1 million students to be reached in 40,000  43,250 classrooms incorporated, 34,946
classrooms incorporated, 33,250 radios  classrooms, 135 radio programs produced,  radios distributed, and 75,688 teachers
distributed, and 1,443 teachers trained  and 75,000 teachers trained       trained
- READING PLAN: 1,156 book collections  Plan to reach 1,088 schools in 23 states,    117,689 books purchased, 23 vehicles
(40,460 books) purchased, 23 vehicles  8,000 teachers trained, 415,000 students   distributed to states, 5,855 teachers trained
distributed to states, 9,014 teachers trained, benefited, and 129 lending points created    and 185,039 students served in 806 schools
and 23 information services installed
- TEACHER TRAINING: 106,434 teachers  111,000 teachers to be trained       112,980 teachers trained, 82 universities
trained in 5,127 workshops, and 23 state                                   contracted, and 23 states participating
training teams trained
-25 -



- PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND                                                    PCU established and operating, and 18
MONITORING: PCU to be established at                                        regional PCUs (UCER) established and
MED                                                                        strengthened
- INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING: 23 Human resource study and infrastructure    3 human resource studies completed and 16
regions with accounting systems, 23 with   inventory conducted in each state, and  underway, 18 states participating, and 16
information systems, 23 with norms and  reorganization of the ME designed and  asset studies underway
procedures systems, and 97 staff trained    implemented
- SECTOR INFORMATION SYSTEM: 576  Software developed to manage (i) human    24 hardware and software sets purchased,
systems developed and installed, and 24    resources, (ii) financing and accounting  23 regions with information systems
sets of hardware and software purchased    processes, (iii) general statistics and (iv)    installed, 2,821 staff trained, 503 computers,
information from students and schools. More 175 printers, 43 servers, 17 optical readers,
than 500 computers, 170 printers and 43    and 2 vehicles purchased
servers provided to 23 states
- SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT GRANTS:    Program implemented in 50% of the schools 1,050 projects completed, 18,329 staff
2,683 grants provided, 2,683 projects  targeted. Team of local promoters trained   trained, 23 states participating
completed, 7,053 staff trained, 23 states
participating
- EVALUATION OF STUDENT               Sample of students in grades 3-6 evaluated  36 pilot tests and 6 national tests
ACHIEVEMENT: 5 pilot tests administered, in Math and Language. Teacher and student administered, 54 reports disseminated, 29
4 national administrations, 27 training  questionnaires developed to establish factors training activities, 23 states participating
activities, 3 related research, 5 related  associated with student achievement
studies
End of project
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
PrQject Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)  l
f                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
-INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
Provision of textbooks                              39.61           2.46            6.2
Non-printed didactic materials                       6.75            4.50          66.7
Classroom libraries                                 10.92           19.99         183.1
Interactive Radio                                    9.09            9.63         105.9
Plan Lector                                          5.24            3.10          59.2
-TEACHER TRAINING                                   31.48          13.99          39.6
-INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Project Management and Monitoring                   14.85            5.65          38.1
Institutional Strengthening                         14.13            3.69          26.1
Improvement of MOE Information Systems               5.53           13.16          238
School Improvement Grant                            12.06           3.45           28.6
Evaluation of Student Achievement                    2.51            1.15          45.8
-STUDIES AND SEMINARS                                3.01           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                155.18           80.77
Physical Contingencies                              9.66
Price Contingencies                                14.02
Total Project Costs            178.86          80.77
Total Financing Required            178.86          80.77
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      ICB       Procurement Method           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     45.50        24.10         6.60         0.00        76.20
(23.00)      (13.80)       (5.20)       (0.00)      (42.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00        37.70         0.00        37.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (19.60)      (0.00)      (19.60)
4. Sch lmprov Grants         0.00          0.00         15.10        0.00        15.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (7.50)       (0.00)       (7.50)
5. Teacher Training          0.00          0.00        34.10         0.00        34.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (20.20)      (0.00)      (20.20)
6. Operating costs           0.00          0.00         0.00         15.80        15.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     45.50         24.10        93.50        15.80       178.90
(23.00)      (13.80)      (52.50)       (0.00)      (89.30)
-27 -



Project Costs by Procureme t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
ProcuremNt ethod,
0 ExpfldI., Cat ego y,        GB            NCB      j    Other 2       tN.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                        17.83           9.54          3.68           0.00          31.05
(17.64)        (8.91)         (2.90)         (0.00)       (29.45)
3. Services                     0.00            0.00          28.06          0.00          28.06
(0.00)         (0.00)        (4.70)         (0.00)        (4.70)
4. Sch Improv Grants             0.00           0.00          4.12           0.00          4.12
(00)(0.00)                   (1.35)       _(0.00)         (.5
5. Teacher Training             0.00            0.00          12.28          0.00          12.28
(0.00)         (0.00)        (8.17)         (0.00)        (8.17)
6. Operating costs              0.00            0.00          5.26           0.00          5.26
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        17.83           9.54          53.40          0.00          80.77
(17.64)        (8.91)        (17.12)         (0.00)       (43.67)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Ilncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equi alent)
lPiercef.tage of Appraisal
f  Coponent               Ap*Isimt                       te/aetEtmt                        -
_______________   :auk   L v             GoF.      Bank0  :Go vL0 i 0 0*000004 0: $000 CoP.    bank    ovt.  CoF.
INSTR MATERIALS                                                                       0.0    0.0    0.0
Textbooks                23.88     23.55                2.06       0.40               8.6    1.7    0.0
Non-printed materials    3.25       4.96                4.19       0.30              128.9   6.0    0.0
Class libraries          6.85       6.11                11.39      8.60              166.3  140.8   0.0
Interactive Radio        2.91       7.84                4.07       5.56              139.9  70.9   0.0
Plan Lector              2.79       3.20                2.03       1.06              72.8   33.1   0.0
TEACHER TRAINING         15.83     20.36                8.17       4.11              51.6   20.2    0.0
INST DEVELOPMENT                                                                      0.0    0.0    0.0
Project Mgmt & Monit     8.43       7.89                1.14       4.51              13.5   57.2   0.0
Inst Strengthening       10.32      4.57                1.12       5.27               10.9  115.3   0.0
Infornation Systems      5.66       0.83                9.50       3.66              167.8  441.0   0.0
School Improv Grants     6.09       7.59                1.35       2.10              22.2   27.7   0.0
Eval Student Achiev      0.97       1.89                0.37       0.79              38.1   41.8   0.0
STUDIES &                2.44       0.63                                              0.0    0.0    0.0
SEMINARS
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR did not include an estimated rate of return to the project. Expected benefits were stated
in terms of improved internal efficiency of the system as a result of increased graduation rates, reduced
resource waste from reducing repetition and dropout, and improvements in learning achievement of primary
students. It was also expected that the project would result in improved management capacity at the
Ministry of Education and at the state levels; and an improved capacity of the states to allocate resources
according to well defined policy objectives and priorities. There has been no significant change in the
levels of dropout and repetition in the basic education system of Venezuela in the years since the project
was prepared or in the previous decade. Deterioration of the Venezuelan economy during the 1990's had a
negative impact on financing of the educational system and affected its performance. Between 1991-92 and
1998-99, global repetition rates declined by less than one percentage point from 13.07% to 12.3 percent.
Dropout rates remained approximately the same at about 6 percent. The percentage of students graduating
after nine years of schooling was estimated in the SAR at 47 percent, and only 4.9 percent of those enrolled
graduate without repeating grades. Tests of cognitive achievement applied by the National Student
Assessment System in 1996 also reveal low levels of reading comprehension and written communication in
the areas of Language, Math and History among students in the third, sixth and ninth grades. Any
improvements derived from the projects quality interventions have not yet become evident. Due to
tardiness in the provision of the project-financed quality inputs, their impact on student achievement and
system internal efficiency can only be assessed in future years.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
S                 S
Appraisal/Negotiation
S                 S
Supervision
03/11/1994                    2  Operations/Task.                      S                 S
Manager/Education
Economist
03/10/1994                    0  N/A                                   S                 S
12/16/1994                    6  Inform. Tech. Analyst/Textbook       S                 S
SP. (C)/Education
Economist/Task
Manager/Teacher Training. SP
(C)/Operations Analyst
06/02/1995                    7  Information Specialist/ Portfolio     S                 S
Manager/Textbook
Consultant/Teacher Trg/Curric
Con./Economist/Task
Manager/Procurement Specialist
12/14/1995                    7  Information Specialist/Textbook      S                  S
Consultant/Textbook
Consultant/Teacher Trg/Curric.
/Con./Student Assess.
Consul/Economist/task
Manager/Procurement Specialist
03/08/1996                    3  Textbook                              S                 S
Consultant/Economist/Task
Manager
03/20/1996                    3  Textbook                              S                 U
Consultant/Economist/Task
Manager
01/28/1997                    5  Textbook Consultant/Std Assess.       S                 U
Consultant/Economist/ Task
Manager/Information Consultant
01/28/1997                    0  N/A                                   S                 U
11/08/1997                    3  Task Manager/Education               S                  S
Specialist/Senior Educator
06/16/1998                    0  N/A                                   S                 S
07/24/1998                    5  Task Manager/Education               U                  U
Economist/Procurement
Specialist/Implementation
Special/Information Specialist
- 30 -



04/07/1999                   1  Task Manager                         S                S
04/17/1999                   3  Task Manager/Implementation         S                 S
Specialist/Financial Specialist
12/11/1999                   6  Procurement                         S                 S
Specialist/Consultant/
Consultant MIS/Task
Manager/Financial Management
Specialist/Consultant
ICR
03/31/2000                   5   Task Manager/Financial              S                S
Management
Specialist/Information
Specialist/Consultant/
Operations/Implementation
Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation             78.5                      222.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                  30.7                        85.3
Supervision                           223.1                       654.4
ICR                                       9                        37.5
Total                                 341.3                       999.5
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                          OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Physical                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
1 Financial                              OH. OSU*M  ON  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
0 Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Gender                          O H OSUOM O N * NA
r Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
* Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
D Overall                                             OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
* Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
I Government implementation performance               O HS OS  O  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                   O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Venezuela: Closing Mission. Basic Education Project. 3656-VE. Carlos Rojas, May 10, 2000.
2. Project Status Reports and Aide-Memoires of supervision missions, March 1994 - December 1999.
World Bank.
3. Loan Agreement - Loan Number 3656-VE, December 28, 1993.
4. Memorandum and Recommendations of the President of the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a proposed loan in an amount equivalent to US$89.4
million to the Republic of Venezuela for a Basic Education Project, October 13, 1993.
5. Staff Appraisal Report. Venezuela - Basic Education Project. October 13, 1993.
6. Borrador del Informe de Implementaci6n del Proyecto de "Calidad de la Educaci6n Basica". Convenio
de Prestamo 3656-A-VE. Dra. Magaly Wlez, Junio 16, 2000.
7. Informe de Ejecuci6n del Programa de Educaci6n Basica. Proyecto Modernizaci6n y Fortalecimiento
de la Educaci6n Basica - Prestamo BID 779/OC-VE. Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Basica - Prestamo BM 3656-VE. Ministerio de Educaci6n - Unidad Coordinadora de
Programas con Organismos Multilaterales, 15 de octubre de 1999.
Tabla 6: Estudios incluidos en el Proyecto
Proposed in SAR                             Studies Carried Out
Estudios en Educacion Primaria
* Producci6n de Mapas de Escuelas
*  Estudios de las practicas de docentes y sus  *  Censo de las Escuelas
efectos en la calidad de la ensefianza.         *  Estudio de los factores extemos que
afectan la calidad de la Educaci6n (Tercer
Estudios en Educaci6n Secundaria                    grado)
* Factores determinantes en el acceso a la
educaci6n secundaria
* Evaluaci6n de la educaci6n secundaria,
financiamiento y gerencia.
*  Evaluaci6n de la eficiencia intema de la     *  Estudios efectuados 35 *
educaci6n secundaria
* Factores que afectan la transici6n entre la
educaci6n primaria y la secundaria.
- 34 -



*ESTUDIOS-TITULO                                    AUTOR            ANO
I-Factores que influyen en la cobertura de la matricula en el nivel de I-Luis Bravo        1995
Educaci6n Media Diversificada y Profesional
2-Proyecci6n de la demanda y factibilidad de la atenci6n en la Educaci6n  2-Alfredo Carvajal  1995
Media Diversificada, Profesional y Adultos.
3-Cambios Curriculares producidos en la Educaci6n Media             3-Lilia B. Vemaez      1996
4-Estudio de Politica sobre el Ensayo de la Educaci6n Media, Diversificada, y 4-OSPP       1996
Profesional.
5-Evaluaci6n del Disefno Curricular en Ensayo del Nivel de Educaci6n Media, 5-OSPP-ME      1996
Diversificada y Profesional.
6-Expectativas sobre las competencias de los egresados de Educaci6n Media, 6-Luis Luque    1996
Diversificada y Profesional.
7-Detecci6n de Necesidades y Plan de Adiestramiento de Recursos Humanos 7-Magaly Velez     1996
para el personal docente, director y supervisor del nivel de Educaci6n Media
Diversificada y Profesional.
8-PrActicas Pedag6gicas predominantes en la Educaci6n Media         8-Amaldo Estd          1996
9-Articulaci6n entre Niveles Educativos con acento en Educaci6n Media.  9-Estela Caicedo   1997
10-Programa de Dotaci6n y existencia de materiales educativos en los 10-Julio Torres       1996
p,lanteles de Educaci6n Media.
11 -Caracterizaci6n de los Modelos actuales de Gesti6n.             11 -Yuraima Garcia     1996
12-Funci6n Supervisoria y Directiva en el nivel de Educaci6n Media.  12-Maria Gonzalez     1996
13-Factibilidad de la  Implementaci6n del Proceso de Descentralizaci6n 13-OSPP-ME          1996
Educativa en los planteles de Educaci6n Media.
14-Analisis del Rendimiento Academico de los alumnos del nivel de 14-Luis Contreras        1996
Educaci6n Media
15-Analisis del Marco Juridico que sustenta el nivel de la Educaci6n Media 15- OSPP-ME     1996
Diversificada y Profesional.
16-Eficiencia en la administraci6n de los docentes                  16-Josefina Bruni C.   1997
17-Analisis estrategico  de la situaci6n de la Formaci6n Profesional: 17-Banco Mundial, ME, 1995
Caracterizaci6n de la situaci6n del sistema de planificaci6n y del proceso de Ince, Centro de
apropiaci6n del entorno en el Ince.                                 Investigaci6n.
18-Diagn6stico de las instalaciones y equipamientos existentes en los cuales se I 8-Gustavo Larrazabal   1996
desarrollan las Programaciones de Formaci6n Tdcnicas y Profesional..
19-La capacidad de las empresas para formular demandas de Capacitaci6n y 19-Carlos Febres  1996
Formaci6n profesional
20-Factibilidad de Creaci6n de un subsistema de acreditaci6n de los 20-Josefina Bruni C. y 1997
aprendizajes adquiridos por experiencias.                           Liz Fillol
21-Factibilidad de la Puesta en Practica de la acreditaci6n de los aprendizajes 21-OSPP-ME  1997
adquiridos por experiencias.
22-Evaluaci6n del Ensayo del Diseilo Curricular para el Nivel de Educaci6n 22-OSPP-ME       1995
Media, Diversificada y Profesional en la Modalidad de Educaci6n para
Adultos.
23-Analisis Comparativo de Diagn6sticos y Propuestas elaboradas para el 23-Meryana Dager    1996
Nivel de Educaci6n Media.
24-Politicas Educativas dentro de las cuales se inscribe el Proyecto de Reforma 24-Josefina Bruni C.  1997
de la Educaci6n Media.
25-Tasa de Retorno de la Educaci6n Media en Venezuela               25-Angel Sanabria       1996
26-Sistematizaci6n y Evaluaci6n del Proyecto de Rescate de los Planteles 26-Miriam Castillo  1997
insignia.
27-Influencia de la Participaci6n estudiantil en los rendimientos academicos.  27-Angela Sanabria  1996
28-Aprendizaje significativo y estrategias de comprensi6n lectora.  28-OSPP-ME              1997
- 35 -



29-Analisis de la Oferta y Demanda                                29-Belkis Mamacaro    1997
30-Implementaci6n de la Resoluci6n N1.694 sobre la acreditaci6n de 30-UCEP-ME           1997
conocimientos y experiencias en la modalidad de Educaci6n de Adultos.
31 -Procedencia de la matricula de la Educaci6n Media, en la Modalidad de 31-lce Manrique  1996
Educaci6n de Adultos.
32-Anteproyecto para la reforna del nivel de Educaci6n Media, Diversificada 32-OSPP-ME   1996
y Profesional.                                                   ___ _
33-Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n.        33-OSPP-ME             1997
- 36-



