Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3656 VE
                             Loan Agreement
                       (Basic Education Project)
                                between
                         REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                                  and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                            AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated December 28, 1993
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 3656 VE
                            LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 28, 1993, between REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     WHEREAS the Borrower hereby represents to the Bank that the
execution of this Agreement has been duly authorized by the Borrower's
"Ley que Autoriza al Ejecutivo Nacional para la Contratacin y Ejecucin
de Operaciones de Credito Pblico durante el Ejercicio Fiscal 1993"
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette Issue No. 35.264 dated
July 30, 1993.
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
Page  2
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)   "BN" means the Borrower's National Library, Instituto
Autnomo de Biblioteca Nacional y de Servicios de Bibliotecas, created
by the Borrower's Ley del Instituto Autnomo Biblioteca Nacional y de
Servicios de Biblioteca, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
(Gaceta Oficial) No. 31.298 of August 16, 1977;
     (b)   "BN Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, through ME (as hereinafter defined), and BN
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of this Agreement;
     (c)   "BN Charter" means the Borrower's Ley del Instituto Autnomo
Biblioteca Nacional y de Servicios de Biblioteca, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) No. 31.298 of August 16,
1977, and any other legal norm, including by-laws (estatutos), which
regulate the operations of BN all as amended to this date;
     (d)   "CENAMEC" means the Borrower's National Center for Teaching
Math and Science, Centro Nacional para el Mejoramiento de la Enseanza
de la Ciencia, created by the Borrower's decree No. 1365 of August 6,
1973, published in the Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) No. 30.171 of
August 6, 1973;
     (e)   "CENAMEC Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, through ME (as hereinafter defined), and CENAMEC
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
     (f)   "CENAMEC Charter" means the Borrower's decree No. 1365 of
August 6, 1973, published in the Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) No.
30.171 of August 6, 1973, and any other legal norms, including by-laws
(estatutos), which regulate the operations of CENAMEC, all as amended
to this date;
     (g)   "Central Bank" means Banco Central de Venezuela, the
Borrower's central bank;
     (h)   "Charters" means the CENAMEC Charter, FUNDALECTURA Charter
(as hereinafter defined) and BN Charter;
     (i)   "Comite Estadal" means each of the committees to be
established by ME (as hereinafter defined), the respective Executing
State (as hereinafter defined), CENAMEC, BN, and FUNDALECTURA (as
hereinafter defined) for purposes of coordinating, at the State level,
the Project activities to be carried out in the concerned Executing
State (as hereinafter defined), as provided in the Operational Manual
(as hereinafter defined), and which committees will be comprised of
the respective Secretario de Educacin, as its chief coordinator, the
respective Director de la Zona Educativa of ME (as hereinafter
defined), and one member of each of the above remaining Participating
Entities;
Page  3
     (j)   "Convenio de Coejecucin" means each of the agreements to be
entered into between the ME (as hereinafter defined) and a State (as
hereinafter defined) as provided in Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement and any other agreement which may be entered into between
the Borrower and a State (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section
3.07 of this Agreement for purposes of defining the responsibilities
of such State in the execution of the Project and "Convenios de
Coejecucin" means collectively all such agreements;
     (k)   "Convenio de Colaboracin" means each of the agreements to be
entered into between ME and a State as provided in Section 3.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement and "Convenios de Colaboracin" means collec-
tively all such agreements;
     (l)   "Decentralization Legal Framework" means the Borrower's Ley
Organica de Descentralizacin, Delimitacin y Transferencia de
Competencias del Poder Pblico - (Ley Organica), published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette extraordinary issue 4153 dated December
28, 1989, as amended from time to time, and any other legal norms,
including decretos, reglamentos and resoluciones, which have been or
may be enacted pursuant to the above Ley Organica;
     (m)   "Educational Zone" means the Zona Educativa, administrative
unit of ME (as hereinafter defined) at the level of each State (as
hereinafter defined) and "Educational Zones" means collectively all
of such units;
     (n)   "Educational Zone PCU" means each of the units to be
established by ME (as hereinafter defined) for purposes of the
coordination and implementation of the activities of the Project to
be carried out in a State other than an Executing State (as herein-
after defined) or a Participating State (as hereinafter defined) and
"Educational Zone PCUs" means all of such units;
     (o)   "Eligible Schools" means the schools which are, on the
basis of the information resulting from the School Census, Rural
Schools (as hereinafter defined) or Marginal Area Schools (as here-
inafter defined);
     (p)   "Executing State" means a State which has entered into a
Convenio de Coejecucin with the Borrower as provided in Section 3.01
(b) (i) and Section 3.07 of this Agreement and "Executing States"
means collectively all of such States;
     (q)   "FUNDALECTURA" means the Borrower's Foundation for the
Promotion of Reading, Comisin Nacional de la Lectura, created by
the Borrower's decree No. 2711 of December 22, 1992, published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) No. 35.171 of
March 15, 1993;
     (r)   "FUNDALECTURA Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower, through ME (as hereinafter defined), and
FUNDALECTURA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (v) of this Agreement;
     (s)   "FUNDALECTURA Charter" means the Borrower's decree No. 2711
of December 22, 1992, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette
(Gaceta Oficial) No. 35.171 of March 15, 1993 and any other legal
norms, including by-laws (estatutos), as amended to this date, which
regulate the operations of FUNDALECTURA;
     (t)   "Marginal Area School" means a school located in an urban
area that, on the basis of the information resulting from the School
Census, has more than 70% of its students receiving support for
nutrition (beca alimentaria) from the Borrower;
     (u)   "ME" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education, Ministerio
de Educacin;
     (v)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators, satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of measuring progress in
the implementation of the Project as such indicators are included in
the letter from the Bank to the Borrower of even date herewith;
Page  4
     (w)   "Operational Manual" means the operational manual, satis-
factory to the Bank, setting forth the rules and procedures for
purposes of the implementation of the Project, including procedures
for the use of the Special Account (as hereinafter defined), to be
approved by ME pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement, as
such operational manual may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (x)   "Participation Agreements" means the Convenios de
Coejecucin, Convenios de Colaboracin, the CENAMEC Agreement, the
FUNDALECTURA Agreement and the BN Agreement, and "Participation
Agreement" means any of the above individual agreements;
     (y)   "Participating Entities" means the Executing States,
Participating States (as hereinafter defined), CENAMEC, FUNDALECTURA,
and BN and "Participating Entity" means any of the above individual
entities;
     (z)  "Participating State" means a State, other than an
Executing State, which has entered into a Convenio de Colaboracin
with the Borrower as provided in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement and "Participating States" means collectively all of such
States;
     (aa) "PCU" means the project coordination unit within ME
established by ME's resolution No. 915 of July 23, 1993, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) No. 35272 of
August 11, 1993;
     (bb) "Rural Schools" means those schools which are located in
rural areas on the basis of the information resulting from the
School Census;
     (cc) "School Census" means the census, under terms agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank, which is being carried out by
the Borrower for purposes of collecting basic socio-economic
information on schools and students to build a database;
     (dd) "Selected Schools" means schools which are, on the basis
of the information resulting from the School Census, located in
rural or urban areas with the exception of the Graduated Schools.
For purposes of this paragraph "Graduated Schools" means those schools
which have either six or nine grades;
     (ee) "Selected States" means the following seven States: Distrito
Federal, Miranda, Falcn, Aragua, Sucre, Monagas, and Bolivar or any
other substitute State which may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank;
     (ff) "SES" means the education secretariat (Secretara de
Educacin), or other administrative unit with equivalent authority
and responsibility in a State, and "SESs" means collectively all
of such secretariats and administrative units;
     (gg) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (hh) "State Account" means the bank account to be established by
each Executing State in a financial entity for purposes of receiving
and administering the funds made available to the concerned Executing
State under the relevant Convenio de Coejecucin;
     (ii) "State Agreement" means each of the agreements (Convenios
de Coejecucin and Convenios de Colaboracin) to be entered into between
the Borrower, through ME, and a State (as hereinafter defined) pur-
suant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) and (ii) and Section 3.07 of this
Agreement, and "State Agreements" means collectively all of such
agreements;
     (jj) "State PCU" means the unit to be established by an Executing
State for purposes of the coordination and implementation of the
Page  5
activities of the Project under the responsibility of such respective
State and "State PCUs" means all of such units;
     (kk) "State" means each of the Estados, political autonomous
divisions established in the Constitution of Venezuela, and the
Federal District (Distrito Federal) of the Borrower; and
     (ll) "Working Group" means the working group to be established
by ME and a Participating State for purposes of coordinating the
activities of the Project to be carried out in the respective
Participating State.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of eighty nine million four hundred thousand dollars ($89,400,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on
               the date immediately preceding each date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings
               of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding
               such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has
               allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
Page  6
               loans which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
               bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
               provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
               to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost
               of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
               preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2
               of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
               accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
               preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
               applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
               Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
               Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
               of such Quarter."
               "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
               commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
               1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through ME,
with the assistance of the Participating Entities as provided in
the respective Participation Agreement, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
technical, environmental, financial and educational practices,
and the Operational Manual and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project; and
     (b)  As part of, and without limitation upon, the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall:
     (i)  enter into an agreement with each State willing to par-
          ticipate in the execution of the Project; such agreement
          to provide for the participation of each of such States
          in the implementation of Parts A.1, B.1, B.2, C.1 (b),
          C.1 (c), C.3, C.4, and C.5 of the Project under terms
          and conditions which shall have been approved by the
          Bank including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this
          Agreement;
     (ii) with regard to those States, if any, which have not
          executed a Convenio de Coejecucin but are willing that
          the Project be implemented in the schools under their
          respective jurisdiction, enter into an agreement with
          each of such States whereby the latter adhere to the
          objectives of the Project and agree to its implemen-
          tation in the schools under their respective juris-
Page  7
          diction under terms and conditions which shall have
          been approved by the Bank including those set forth
          in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
    (iii) enter into an agreement with CENAMEC providing for the
          participation of the latter in the implementation of
          Parts A.3 and A.4 of the Project under terms and
          conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
          including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
          ment;
     (iv) enter into an agreement with BN providing for the
          participation of the latter in the implementation of
          Part A.2 (a) of the Project under terms and conditions
          which shall have been approved by the Bank including
          those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (v)  enter into an agreement with FUNDALECTURA providing
          for the participation of the latter in the implemen-
          tation of Part A.2 (b) of the Project under terms
          and conditions which shall have been approved by
          the Bank including those set forth in Schedule 5 to
          this Agreement;
     (vi) ensure, through contractual arrangements, that the
          authority, other than the Borrower or a State, having
          jurisdiction over schools which may benefit from
          the Project, if any, and are willing that the Project
          be implemented in such schools, shall have duly
          granted to ME the right to implement the Project
          activities in the respective schools, and to require
          from the respective authority all necessary and
          appropriate collaboration required therefor;
    (vii) exercise its rights under the Participation Agreements
          and the contractual arrangements referred to in para-
          graph (vi) of this Section, in such manner as to pro-
          tect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
          accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the
          Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
          assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce or waive any
          of such agreements or any provision thereof; and
   (viii) operate and maintain the PCU and each Educational Zone
          PCU and Working Group with an organizational structure,
          functions, budget and staff satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CENAMEC,
FUNDALECTURA, BN and the Executing States with regard to the Project
activities being implemented by such Participating Entity.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 (a) and 9.07 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank:
     (a)  not later than March 1 of each year of Project execution,
an annual progress report on the Project, of such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including, inter alia: (i) a
section detailing progress in the implementation of the Project in
the immediately previous year; and (ii) specific and justified
proposals for adjustments in Project implementation based on the
then current results; and
Page  8
     (b)  not later than March 1 of each year of Project execution,
for its review and approval, a proposed annual operating plan pro-
viding for the activities, implementation schedule, physical targets
and a proposed budget in respect of the Project during the upcoming
year.
     Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions in Section
9.01 (a) (i) of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than March 15 of each year during the execution
of the Project, starting in 1995, hold annual reviews jointly with
the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports referred to in
Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, on the
following items: (i) evaluation of the progress in execution, and
in the achievement of the objectives, of the Project based on, among
other factors, the Monitoring Indicators; (ii) discussion on the
proposed annual operating plan for the upcoming year; (iii) any
changes in Project implementation that may be necessary including
the roles of ME and the Executing States in the procurement of
textbooks under the Project; and (iv) ME's proposed budget in
connection with the financing of the Project and the long-term
sustainability of the investments under the Project;
     (b)  thirty months after the Effective Date, review with the
Bank (mid term review) in addition to the items referred to in (a)
above, the impact of the Project and its implementation; and
     (c)  if as a result of any of the above annual reviews,
progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of
the objectives of the Project is not satisfactory to the Bank, the
Borrower shall promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial
action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be needed to achieve
such objectives or to carry out efficiently the Project.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective
Date, carry out the studies under Parts C.2 and D.2 (a) of the
Project;
     (b)  promptly upon the completion of each of such studies,
present to the Bank the results of such studies and their recom-
mendations and afford the Bank a reasonable time for its review
and comment; and
     (c)  based on the results and recommendations of the above
studies under Part C.2, and taking into account the Bank's
comments thereon, present to the Bank, not later than ninety
(90) days after completion of such studies, a plan or plans of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, for the ME and each Executing
State and Participating State and implement, or cause to be
implemented, such plan or plans of action in a manner and under
a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.07. Prior to the transfer of schools to a State
under the Decentralization Legal Framework, the Borrower shall
submit evidence to the Bank, that all adequate and necessary
action, satisfactory to the Bank, (including amendments to the
respective Convenio de Coejecucin or execution of new Convenios de
Coejecucin) have been taken by the Borrower and the respective
State to ensure the continued implementation of the Project, or
relevant Part thereof, in an adequate and efficient manner, the
achievements of the objectives of the Project and the proper
compliance with the provisions in this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a consolidated
set of records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
Page  9
tures in respect of the Project; and (ii) cause each Executing State,
CENAMEC, FUNDALECTURA and BN to maintain records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project
activities carried out by the respective Participating Entity.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account and each State Account for each fiscal year
               audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                    ARTICLE V
                              Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified, provided, however,
that in respect of any of the events referred to in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) below, the Bank may limit the suspension of disbursement of
Loan proceeds only in respect to the Part or Parts of the Project, or
portion or portions thereof, affected by the event in question:
     (a)  CENAMEC or FUNDALECTURA or BN shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the CENAMEC Agreement or
FUNDALECTURA Agreement or BN Agreement, respectively.
     (b)  An Executing State or a Participating State shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the respective Convenio
de Coejecucin or Convenio de Colaboracin.
     (c)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of
Page  10
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that a Participating Entity will be able to
perform its obligations under the respective Participation Agreement.
     (d)  Any of the Charters shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, or waived so as to materially and adversely
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the respective
Participating Entity to perform any of its obligations under the
respective Participation Agreement.
     (e)  The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CENAMEC,
FUNDALECTURA or BN or for the suspension of any of their operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified, namely, any
event specified in paragraph (a) or (e) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  The Borrower shall have entered into Convenios de Coejecucin
or Convenios de Colaboracin with, at least, fourteen States provided,
however, that such fourteen agreements shall include Convenios de
Coejecucin with each of the Selected States.
     (b)  The Borrower shall have entered into the CENAMEC Agreement,
FUNDALECTURA Agreement and BN Agreement.
     (c)  The Bank shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the
Bank, showing that: (i) the planning specialist, the procurement
specialist and at least three (3) educational specialists of the PCU
have been appointed with qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank; (ii) a State PCU has been formally established in each
of the States which have entered into a Convenio de Coejecucin, such
State PCU to be established in accordance with the Operational Manual;
(iii) a Working Group has been formally established in each of the
Participating States which have entered into a Convenio de Colaboracin
with organizational structure, functions and staff satisfactory to the
Bank; and (iv) an Educational Zone PCU has been formally established
in each of the States which have not executed a Convenio de Coejecucin
or a Convenio de Colaboracin, with organizational structure, functions
and staff satisfactory to the Bank.
     (d)  The Bank and the Borrower shall have agreed on standard
bidding documents to be utilized under the Project in connection with
the procurement of goods and services.
     (e)  The Borrower, through ME, has formally approved the
Operational Manual.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that each of the agreements referred to in Section 6.01 (a)
and (b) of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the
respective parties thereto, and are legally binding upon said parties
in accordance with their respective terms; and
     (b)  that each of the State PCUs, Working Groups and Educational
Zone PCUs referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement have been
duly established under the laws in Venezuela.
     Section 6.03. The date March 23, 1994 is hereby specified for the
Page  11
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the pur-
poses of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Direccin General
          Sectorial de Finanzas Pblicas
          Edificio Norte, Piso 5
          Centro Simn Bolvar
          Caracas 1010, Venezuela
                                     Telex:
                                     24215 HDACP
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:             Telex:
               INTBAFRAD             248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.       82987 (FTCC)
                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                     197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
                    By /s/ Simn Alberto Consalvi
                                               Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                         Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
Page  12
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated            % of
                             (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment                 7,400,000           100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures and
                                                   80% of local
                                                   expenditures
(2) (a) Textbooks             21,700,000           100% until with-
                                                   drawals under this
                                                   Category shall
                                                   have reached an
                                                   aggregate amount
                                                   equivalent to
                                                   $4,000,000; there-
                                                   after, 70% until
                                                   withdrawals under
                                                   this Category shall
                                                   have reached an
                                                   aggregate amount
                                                   equivalent to
                                                   $12,500,000; there-
                                                   after, 40% until
                                                   withdrawals under
                                                   this Category shall
                                                   have reached an
                                                   aggregate amount
                                                   equivalent to
                                                   $19,200,000; and,
                                                   thereafter, 15%.
     (b) Other                 9,100,000           100% of foreign
         Instructional                             expenditures
         Materials                                 and 70% of local
                                                   expenditures
(3)  Goods, Training and       7,500,000           50%
     other Technical
     Assistance under
     Part C.5 (a) and
     (b) of the Project
(4)  Consultants              19,200,000           45% of local
     Services                                      expenditures
                                                   for services of
                                                   consultants
                                                   domiciled within
                                                   the territory
                                                   of the Borrower
                                                   and 100% of
                                                   foreign expendi-
                                                   tures for
                                                   services
                                                   of other
                                                   consultants
(5)  Training                 19,300,000           100% until with-
                                                   drawals under
                                                   this Category
                                                   shall have
                                                   reached an
                                                   aggregate amount
                                                   of $4,000,000;
Page  13
                                                   thereafter, 70%
                                                   until withdrawals
                                                   under this Category
                                                   shall have reached
                                                   $11,000,000; there-
                                                   after, 40% until
                                                   withdrawals under
                                                   this Category shall
                                                   have reached
                                                   $16,500,000; and,
                                                   thereafter 15%.
(6)  Unallocated               5,200,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    89,400,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000, may be made in
respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) on account of payments
made for expenditures before that date but after April 26, 1993;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under Part A of the Project
unless the Eligible Schools, Selected Schools and Rural Schools have
been identified in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures under Part C.5 of the Project
unless the Eligible Schools have been identified in a manner satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank;
     (d)  payments made for expenditures under the Project unless such
expenditures have been included in the relevant annual operating plan
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and approved by the
Bank;
     (e)  payments in respect of expenditures for the benefit of a
school under the jurisdiction of an authority other than the Borrower
unless the respective State Agreement or contractual arrangement
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (vi) or Part B (b) of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement has been signed between the parties thereto; and
     (f)  payments made for expenditures under Part C.3 of the Project
in connection with a SES, unless the Bank has received an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for strengthening the institutional cap-
abilities of the respective SES.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a)
raising the level of student achievement; (b) reducing the incidence
of repetition and dropout; (c) increasing graduation rates of basic
education through improvements in the quality of education and
administrative efficiency; (d) strengthening the policy making and
normative role of ME in the education sector; and (e) developing the
capacity of States to manage the educational system in an efficient
manner.
Page  14
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Instructional Materials Development
     This Part of the Project would increase the availability of text-
books, workbooks, reading books and teacher guides in schools and
consists of the following activities:
1.   A program to provide textbooks and other instructional materials
to all students attending grades one through nine in Eligible Schoolsincluding 
classroom storage facilities for such textbooks and materials.
2.    (a) A program to provide Rural Schools with a small collection of
supplementary reading and complementary books for permanent use in the
classroom; and (b) expansion and strengthening of an ongoing itinerant
reading program ("plan lector") in Eligible Schools.
3.   A program to provide non-printed instructional materials, including
learning games, puzzles, science kits, alphabet blocks and posters, to
Selected Schools.
4.   Expansion of an ongoing pilot interactive radio program of mathe-
matic lessons to reach grades one through three in Eligible Schools.
Part B:   Human Resource Development
1.   Provision of workshops and seminars for all teachers of grades one
through nine, directors of school clusters, and supervisors of rural
schools designed primarily for the effective use of the instructional
materials provided to the teachers under the Project including the
acquisition and utilization of training materials related thereto.
2.   A program of competitive grants for the development and testing of
teacher training modules for upgrading the knowledge of teachers in key
subject matters such as language, mathematics and science, and evalua-
tion of such modules.
3.   (a)  Studies on the pre-service training system including: (i) the
duration and content of the training; (ii) organization and management
practices; (iii) staff quality; (iv) effective utilization of facilities
and staff; (v) admission standards and practices; (vi) graduation
standards and policies; (vii) long term needs of teachers including
proposals to meet such needs; and (viii) formulation of an action plan
to improve the pre-service training system; and (b) workshops and
seminars to disseminate the results of the above studies.
Part C:   Institutional Development
1.   A program to strengthen the capabilities for Project management
through: (a) the establishment and operation of the PCU including the
acquisition and utilization of equipment, training, technical assis-
tance and dissemination campaigns related thereto; (b) the establish-
ment and operation of State PCUs, Working Groups and Educational Zone
PCUs including technical assistance and short term training; and (c)
the establishment and operation of a system for monitoring and super-
vising the Project.
2.   Studies on: (a) an inventory and evaluation of the staff at ME and
the SESs with special emphasis on the correspondence between the
qualifications and responsibilities of such staff, and an assessment of
overstaffing; (b) inventory of physical assets, land and equipment of
the ME and States; (c) financial impact of the decentralization of
educational services to the States; (d) assessment of the organizational
impact of decentralization on ME's structure and functions; and (e)
strategies, actions and investments required in order for the SESs to
operate the services to be transferred to the States in an efficient
manner.
3.   Establishment and operation of a special grant fund for purposes
Page  15
of strengthening the capabilities of the ME and SESs in functions such
as, inter alia, personnel management, planning and programming,
budgetary and financial control, and monitoring and evaluation.
4.   Design and operation of a data collection system and a computerized
management information system.
5.   (a)  A program of competitive-based grants for the financing of
school based projects by Eligible Schools (with a maximum cost per
project not exceeding the equivalent to $7,500, of which up to the
equivalent to $3,000 shall be for goods) designed to respond to local
teaching conditions and to support the improvement of learning
conditions at the school level such as the development of teaching and
learning materials, establishment of new pedagogical models, carrying
out of teachers' workshops to strengthen pedagogical supervision and
carrying out of study tours; and (b) training of supervisors to assist
Eligible Schools in preparing grant proposals and design of guidelines
for preparing and evaluating projects under the above program.
6.   (a)  Establishment and operation of a student assessment system
including its promotion and dissemination; and (b) strengthening the
capabilities of ME in student assessment through: (i) training of ME
staff; (ii) workshops for ME staff in dissemination, descriptive and
inferential statistics, psychometrics, methodology and processes of
building tests and other instruments, item writing and analysis,
software use and optical scanning; (iii) research projects and courses
related to educational measurement; (iv) short-term visiting courses;
(v) training of coordinators and test administrators; and (vi) acqui-
sition and utilization of reference books.
Part D:   Studies
1.   (a)  Studies on teaching practices and related factors that
adversely affect primary education quality; and (b) the production of
a computer-based school map.
2.   (a)  Studies on: (i) determinants of access to secondary education;
(ii) evaluation of secondary education finance and management; (iii)
evaluation of internal efficiency of secondary education; and (iv)
factors adversely affecting the transition from primary to secondary
education; (b) workshops and seminars to disseminate the results of the
above studies; and (c) technical assistance to prepare a program of
investments for secondary education.
                                 *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 1, 1998.
                                    ANNEX
      Part of the Project                Participating Entities
           A.1                           Executing States
           A.2 (a)                       BN
           A.2 (b)                       FUNDALECTURA
           A.3                           CENAMEC
           A.4                           CENAMEC
           B.1                           Executing States
           B.2                           Executing States
           C.1 (b)                       Executing States
           C.1 (c)                       Executing States
           C.3                           Executing States
Page  16
           C.4                           Executing States
           C.5                           Executing States
                               SCHEDULE 3
                         Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                   (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning May 15, 1999
     through May 15, 2008                      4,470,000
     and on November 15, 2008                  4,470,000
_____________________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
     Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                              The interest rate (expressed as
                              a percentage per annum) applic-
                              able to the Loan on the day of
                              prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years               0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but               0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                 0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
Page  17
More than 11 years but not              0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before               1.00
     maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
     (a)  For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to
in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract
award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be
applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in bid evaluation.
     (b)  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Venezuela may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for computing equipment and vehicles under Parts A.2 and
C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent to $250,000 or more
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of limited international
competitive bidding, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.   Contracts for goods (other than textbooks) estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $20,300,000 in relation to instructional materials and
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,800,000 in relation to goods
other than instructional materials, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Contracts for goods (other than textbooks) estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,200,000 in relation to instructional materials and
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000 in relation to goods
other than instructional materials, may be procured under contracts
Page  18
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.   Contracts for goods for Part C.5 (a) of the Project shall not exceed
the equivalent of $3,000 per contract and may be awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $150,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with
the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower and the Participating Entities in
carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, and shall cause the
Participating Entities pursuant to the Participating Agreements to,
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex time based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
with the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Bank.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to contracts estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent each, up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,000,000. However, this exception
to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the con-
tract value to $15,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
Page  19
Part A:   Terms and Conditions of the Convenios de Coejecucin, CENAMEC
Agreement, FUNDALECTURA Agreement and BN Agreement
1.   Obligations of each Participating Entity under its Participation
Agreement:
     (a)  carry out its part of the Project, under the direction and
coordination of ME, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate educational, financial, technical, administrative and
environmental standards and the Operational Manual;
     (b)  provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required to carry out
the respective parts of the Project;
     (c)  have the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement apply
to any procurement of goods or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan for purposes of the parts of the Project to be
carried out by the Participating Entity in question;
     (d)  maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the parts of the Project to be carried out
by the Participating Entity in question and provide to the Borrower
access to all such records and accounts necessary to enable the
Borrower to comply with its obligations under Section 4.01 and
Schedule 6 of this Agreement;
     (e)  carry out, or cause to be carried out, the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions with regard to the parts of the Project to be carried out
by the Participating Entity in question; and
     (f)  promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower, of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the per-
formance by the Participating Entity in question of its obligations
under the relevant Participation Agreement.
2.   Other provisions
     Each Participation Agreement shall also include the following
provisions:
     (a)  the right of each Participating Entity to the use of the
funds provided under the respective Participation Agreement, including
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be subject to suspension or termination
upon failure by such Participating Entity to perform its obligations
under the respective Participation Agreement; and
     (b)  all the provisions of the Participation Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions or suspension or
termination referred to in subparagraph (a) above.
Part B:   Additional Terms and Conditions in the Convenios de Coejecucin
     (a)  The Executing State shall provide, with regard to those Parts
of the Project in which it will not participate, all the necessary and
appropriate collaboration and assistance to enable ME, CENAMEC, BN,
and FUNDALECTURA to carry out the relevant Parts of the Project and
accomplish their objectives.
     (b)  The Executing State shall ensure, through contractual
arrangements, that the authorities having jurisdiction over schools
in the respective State, and which schools are included in the Project,
have granted the respective Executing State the right to implement
the relevant parts of the Project in respect of the relevant schools
and that such authorities shall provide all the necessary and appro-
priate assistance and collaboration required therefor.
Page  20
     (c)  The Executing State shall maintain the respective State PCU
in accordance with the Operational Manual.  Without limitation to the
above, the Executing State shall maintain a coordinator of the State
PCU with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
     (d)  The Executing State shall cooperate with the Borrower in the
carrying out of the studies under Part C.2 of the Project as they relate
to the respective State and, based on the results and recommendations of
the studies, it shall agree to prepare, not later than sixty (60) days
after completion of such studies, and to implement thereafter, jointly
with the ME, an action plan satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank
for the implementation of such recommendations.
     (e)  The Executing State shall: (i) prepare and submit to the ME,
not later than January 15 of each year of Project execution, a progress
report, of such scope and detail as the ME may reasonably request, on
the implementation of the parts of the Project under the responsibility
of the respective Executing State; and (ii) prepare and submit to the
ME, not later than January 15 of each year of Project execution, a
proposed plan containing a detail of the activities to be carried out
in the following year including the necessary financial resources
required therefor.
     (f)  The Executing State shall maintain the respective State
Account during the execution of the Project.
     (g)  The ME and the Executing State shall maintain the Comit
Estadal during the execution of the Project.
Part C:   Additional Terms and Conditions in the CENAMEC Agreement,
          FUNDALECTURA Agreement and BN Agreement
     (a)  Each Participating Entity in question shall maintain its
representative in the Comit Estadal and shall cooperate and coordinate
with each Executing State in the implementation of the Project
activities under its responsibility.
     (b)  As part of the above paragraph (a) and for purposes of
preparing the plan referred to in Part B (e) (ii) of this Schedule,
each Participating Entity in question shall review with the respective
State PCU on an annual basis, its proposed plan of activities in the
respective State for the upcoming year.
Part D:   Terms and Conditions of the Convenios de Colaboracin
     (a)  The Participating State shall declare its adherence to the
Project and its objectives.
     (b)  The Participating State shall: (i) agree to having the ME
carry out the Project activities in the schools under the jurisdiction
of the respective Participating State and for such purposes shall
provide all the necessary and appropriate collaboration required
therefor; and (ii) ensure that no action which would prevent or inter-
fere with the execution of the Project activities in the schools under
its jurisdiction is taken or permitted to be taken by the respective
Participating State.
     (c)  The Participating State shall cooperate with the Borrower in
the carrying out of the studies under Part C.2 of the Project as they
relate to the respective Participating State and, based on the results
and recommendations of the studies, it shall agree to prepare, not
later than sixty (60) days after completion of such studies, and to
implement thereafter, jointly with the ME, an action plan satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank for the implementation of such recommen-
dations.
     (d)  The Participating State shall maintain, jointly with ME, the
Working Group with an organizational structure, functions and staff
satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  21
     (e)  ME shall have the right to suspend or terminate the partici-
pation of the respective Participating State in the Project upon
failure by such Participating State to comply with any of its obli-
gations under the respective Convenio de Colaboracin.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
Page  22
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for sub-
sequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
