Report No. PIC3096
Project Name              Yemen-Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
Region                    Middle East and North Africa
Sector                    Rehabilitation & Recovery
Project ID                YEPA41302
Credit Amount             US$ 80.0 million equivalent
Implementing Agency       Government, represented by the Ministry of
Planning Contact: Minister's office.
Fax No: 967-1-215505
Prepared                  December 27, 1995
Updated                   April 23, 1996
Appraisal Date            October 30, 1995
Projected Board Date      April 9, 1996
Country and Economic Background
1.         The proposed Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) will provide
assistance to the Government of Yemen in implementing its economic
reform program, focusing on stabilization and structural adjustment.
2.   The Republic of Yemen (ROY) was established in May 1990, when the
Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) in the north and the People's Democratic
Republic of Yemen (PDRY) in the south were united. Initial efforts in
both countries had focused on building their basic physical, social,
and institutional infrastructure. Despite some important differences,
the development strategy in both countries prior to unification was
inward-looking, public- sector-led, and dependent on external
financial assistance and workers' remittances. While this strategy
might have served the initial objectives of state-building, it
hampered economic efficiency and gave rise to a number of economic
problems, including, inter alia, macroeconomic imbalances. The
economic situation was further exacerbated by the Gulf crisis in 1990-
91, devastating floods in 1993, and the military conflict in 1994.
The Government's Reform Program
3.   In order to deal with the country's substantial economic
problems, the Government has designed a comprehensive reform program.
The program's ultimate goal is to achieve sustainable economic growth
and improve the living standards of the Yemeni people. The program
began with the adoption of a new budget by Parliament in March 1995;
since then, additional reform measures have been devised and are in
the process of being implemented.
4.   The program focuses on three main areas: (a) stabilization to
restore macroeconomic balance and reduce inflation; (b) structural
reform to stimulate medium- and long-term economic growth; and (c)
selected social protection measures. The implementation of



macroeconomic stabilization policies will be primarily supported by
the proposed IMF Stand-By Arrangement (SBA). The implementation of
the first phase of structural reforms will be supported by the
proposed ERC. Social protection will be provided, albeit on a limited
scale, by protecting public social expenditures, phasing in price
increases, and a proposed Public Works Project to be financed by IDA
and possibly other donors.
Project Objectives
5.   The main objectives of the ERC are to: (a) support the
Government's stabilization and structural reform program; (b) improve
the incentives framework for increasing efficiency and private sector
development; and (c) ease the shortage of foreign exchange needed to
finance critical imports to facilitate a supply response.
Project Description
6.   The ERC supports:   (a) trade liberalization comprising the
elimination of import and export restrictions, tariff reduction, and
tariff simplification; (b) implementation of the first phase of
privatization, strengthening the institutional framework for future
privatization, and improvement in the performance of remaining public
enterprises; and (c) regulatory reform to facilitate and encourage
private investment and growth.
Financing Plan
7.   The proposed credit of US$80 million equivalent will be made to
the Republic of Yemen. The first tranche of US$50 million equivalent
will be available for disbursement upon Credit effectiveness, and the
second tranche of US$30 million by October 31, 1996. Cofinancing is
being sought.
Project Implementation
8.   The Ministry of Planning will be the principal coordinating
agency, with the support of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of
Supply and Trade, and the General Investment Authority.
Poverty Category
9.   Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
10. The proposed operation has no direct and significant
environmental impact.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
-2 -



Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



