Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 17920
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit No. 2840 - YEM
MAY 28, 1998
Social and Economic Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1997)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YR)
US$ 1.00 = YR 132
YR 1000 = US$ 7.57
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CEM          Country Economic Memorandum
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF         Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GIA          General Investment Authority
HEC          Higher Economic Council
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
MOP          Ministry of Planning
NLS          Non Lending Service
ROY          Republic of Yemen
PWP          Public Works Program
SBA          Stand-by-Arrangement
TA           Technical Assistance
TPO          Technical Privatization Office
Vice President           Kemal Dervis
Director                 John Page
Country Director         Inder K. Sud
Task Manager             Sudhir Chitale



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT - 2840 -YEM)
Table of Contents
Preface .....................................................i
Summary of Evaluation .....................................................                                  j
A. Background .....................................................                                          1
B. Program  Objectives and Design .....................................................1
C. Achievements of Objectives .....................................................2
D. Bank Performance ......................................................4
E. Borrower Performance ......................................................5
F. Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome and  Key Lessons Learned ....................................5
Appendix:  Borrower's Assessment .....................................................               8-10
Statistical Annex ....................................................                            11 - 19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT NO 2840 - YEM)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) (Credit No. 2840-YEM), to the Republic of Yemen. The ERC, amounting to SDR 53.7 or
about US$80 million equivalent, was approved on March 14, 1996 and became effective on
August 27, 1996.
2.    The ERC was the first adjustment credit to Yemen. The ERC was a two tranche
operation which was fully disbursed by January 27, 1997. The Credit was closed on December
31, 1997 according to the original schedule. The Credit had no cofinancing.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Sudhir Chitale, Sr. Economist from the Social and Economic
Development Group (MNSED) of the Middle East and North Africa Region, with assistance
from Sophie Warlop, Program Assistant (MNCMS). The Task Manager for the ERC was Mr.
Sharshar Khan (Principal Economist) and Mvlr. Adil Kanaan was the managing Division Chief.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in October
1996. A mission to review the progress of the program supported by the ERC, and incorporate
borrower's views was conducted in February/March 1998. The initial findings of the mission
were discussed with our main counterparts, the ministries of Planning, Finance, Industry, Supply
and Trad, and the GIA. The borrower's assessment is attached, unedited, as an Appendix.



11
Summary of the Evaluation
1.    The ERC was the first IDA adjustment credit and an essential component of IDA's
assistance strategy to the Republic of Yemen (ROY). The objective of the ERC was to support
the Government's reform program to stabilize the economy and stimulate sustainable growth.
The reform program consisted of three main components: (a) to achieve macroeconomic
stabilization, (b) to lay the basis for sustainable growth by implementing a series of structural
reforms, and (c) to assist the poor who would be affected during the adjustment period. Towards
achieving these objectives, the ERC supported: (i) trade policy reform, (ii) privatization and
public enterprise reform, (iii) regulatory reform, and (iv) increased resources for health,
education and for creating employment.
2.    The objectives of the ERC were fully met. First, Yemen now has a much more
transparent trade regime than before as a result of the progress in trade policy reform. Lower
tariffs have reduced the import costs to the industry and provided a more uniform structure of
incentives. Second, in the area of privatization, the creation of Technical Privatization Office
(TPO) and the privatization of about sixteen enterprises have laid the basis for a rapid expansion
of the privatization program. Third, the ERC reformns have begun to rationalize the incentives
for investment and improved the functioning of the General Investment Authority (GIA).
Fourth, protecting the budgetary allocations for health and education has benefited the poor. In
addition, the companion public works project (Credit No. 2878 - YEM) has created jobs,
valuable infrastructure and an efficient institutional structure for carrying out public works in the
future.
3.    Throughout its preparation and implementation, the ERC received support at the highest
levels. The government was prompt in implementing key actions agreed upon, sometimes even
before the formal negotiations. On its part, the ERC task team spent a lot of time discussing and
explaining the main issues to Government officials as well as other stakeholders such as the
business community and the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. These discussions were very
helpful in building support for the program and reaching formal agreements.
4.    Developments since the closing of the ERC have reinforced our belief that the reform
program in Yemen is sustainable. There has been no reversal of measures in any area. The ERC
was followed by the quick disbursing Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) and the
Bank/IMF designed Policy Framework Paper (PFP), which was supported by the IMF's
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF). A credit for privatization is under preparation.
5.    The main lessons of the ERC have to do with the weak institutions in Yemen. We have
learnt that, given the weak interministerial coordination, multisector policy based operations are
likely to be time consuming and expensive to prepare. Further, substantial technical assistance
(TA) is needed to help implement reforms. Where such TA is not put in place, the momentum
of the reforms has a tendency to slow down.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2840 - YEM)
A.   Background
1.    The unification of the North and South Yemen in 1990 as the Republic of Yemen (ROY)
was followed by a period of economic difficulties and political uncertainty culminating in a civil
strife in 1994. During 1990-94 Yemen was hit by a series of domestic as well as external shocks
such as the Gulf war, the collapse of the Soviet Union and drought. 1 As a result, over 1990-94,
the output stagnated, Yemen had difficulties servicing its external debt, the Rial was trading in
the parallel market at six times the official rate and by end 1994, inflation had reached almost
70% p.a.
2.   It was only after the resolution of the civil strife towards the end of 1994, that the
Government was able to focus its attention on improving the country's economic performance.
By mid 1995, the Government began to discuss a stabilization program with the IMF and a 15
month Stand-by Anrangement (SBA) was agreed upon on March 20, 1996. In parallel, the
Government sought support from the Bank for the structural component of its reform program
aimed at initiating and sustaining economic recovery. The Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
was designed to support the initial phase of the structural reform program.
B.   Program Objectives and Design
3 .    The ERC was the first IDA adjustment credit and an essential component of IDA's
assistance strategy to Yemen. The ERC provided untied balance of payment support which was
an important component of the overall financing plan for the 1996 balance of payments. The
broad policy objective of the ERC was to support the Government's reform program to stabilize
the economy and stimulate sustainable growth. The reform program had three main objectives:
*  to achieve macroeconomic stabilization through movement to a market determined
exchange rate regime, a sharp reduction in the budget deficit and supporting monetary
policies,
*  to lay the basis for sustainable growth by implementing a series of structural reforms,
and
*  to assist the poor who would be affected during the adjustment period.
For a more detailed discussion of the economy see: IBRD, Yemen: Policy Framework Paper, Sec M97-76 1,
August 1997.



2
4.    Within this broad reform program the objectives of the ERC were to create an
environment for sustainable growth and assist the poor. The ERC specifically aimed at
achieving objectives in four main areas.
*  Trade Policy. The objective of the reforms in trade policy was to create a transparent
trade regime which offered a uniform and substantially reduced protection for
domestic industry. Such a regime was expected to reduce import costs for domestic
industry and through import competition, help Yemeni industries to improve
efficiency and realize their export potential.
*  Privatization and Public Enterprises Reform. The ERC program had two main
objectives. The first was to improve the efficiency of public enterprises (PEs)
through privatization and by giving them greater operational autonomy. The seconc
was to reduce the fiscal burden of the PEs by eliminating budgetary transfers.
*  Regulatory Reform. The objective of the regulatory reform was to improve the
investment environment by rationalizing the investment incentives offered to new
investors through the General Investment Authority (GIA). Over the longer term, the
measures under the ERC aimed to transform the government's approach to new
investment from one of control and directing investment to selected sectors to one of
broad encouragement and support.
*  Social Protection. The objective of social protection measures was to reduce any
transitory negative effects of the reform program on socially vulnerable groups in
Yemen.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
5.    The objectives of the credit were fully achieved and further progress in key areas
continues to be made even after the credit was formally closed. Macroeconomic stabilization
was achieved. The core2 inflation rate, dropped from about 70% in 1994 to about 12% in 1996
and further to only 6% in 1997. The Rial stabilized, albeit at a much depreciated rate of about
YR130/$. The environment for trade and investment improved resulting in a regeneration of
growth, and the adverse impact on the poor was minimized (see section F for an assessment of
the outcome).
6.    The success in achieving macroeconomic stabilization must be credited to the strong
fiscal and monetary policies implemented by the Government over 1994-96. Under the IMF
supported SBA, the fiscal deficit was reduced from 17.8% of GDP in 1994 to only about 4.3% of
GDP by 1996 and further to 2.5% of GDP in 1997. This was the result of a combination of tax
reform and expenditure restraint implemented during 1995; as well as an improvement in the
2  The rate excluding the official price adjustment



3
price of oil in 1996. These fiscal measures were supported by monetary policies which included
an increase in the benchmark interest rates to achieve positive rates in 1996. The budget deficit
was fully financed by non-bank borrowing through the successful introduction of the three and
six month treasury bill auction. Since there was no Government borrowing from the banking
system in 1996, broad money supply increased only by about 11% in 1996 compared to about
20% in the previous year contributing to lower inflation.
7.    In all the four areas of the reform program supported by the ERC, the objectives were
fully achieved.
*  Trade Policy. As a result of the measures implemented in this area, the Yemeni
traders today face a far more open and transparent trade regime. Under the ERC a
simplified and less protective tariff structure was introduced. The earlier fifteen tariff
bands with a maximum of 200% tariff was replaced by four bands with a maximum
of 30% tariffs. The only exceptions being cigarettes and tobacco which continue to
have 70% tariffs. All import bans, export restrictions and import licensing were also
abolished3. Duty exemptions for imports by public enterprises (PEs) and the
Government agencies were removed with the exception of existing contracts,
international agreements, wheat and wheat flour imports and crude oil imports for re-
export. All fees and surcharges for imports were combined inlto a unified tariff and
excise taxes for similar imported and domestic goods were harmonized. Finally, the
Government adopted and is implementing an action plan to streamline customs
procedures and documentation requirements. For example, under this program, the
customs reform team has already replaced the existing customs clearance forms which
required 64 signatures of customs officials, by a one page self declaration form which
requires no signatures of customs officials.
3  Privatization and Public Enterprises (PE) Reform. By early 1996, in consultation
with IDA, the Government had established a Technical Privatization Office (TPO) to
support its privatization program. In addition, about sixteen enterprises in industry,
tourism and trade were offered for sale. Of these, ten were sold and the remaining
were liquidated. In preparation for the privatization of utilities, a draft study of a
regulatory framework was completed. Finally, to improve the financial performance
of the PEs, their financial monitoring was consolidated in the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and an action plan to phase out budgetary transfers to the PEs and settle their
arrears over 1997-99 was agreed upon. The 1998 budget contains no transfers to the
agreed list of PEs.
*  Regulatory Reform. Even before the ERC was formally negotiated, the analysis
carried out by the ERC team had persuaded the Government to adopt a new policy of
uniform treatment of all investors. The Government abolished a product based
3  With a few exceptions for the reasons of national security, religion, public health, and environmental
protection.



4
negative list which excluded new investors in some industries from entitlement to
incentives. Under the ERC, a major study of the investment regime and the function
and structure of the GIA was completed and its main recommendations adopted. In
line with these recommendations, the GIA has carried out a number of investment
promotion seminars. The GIA has also prepared material to explain in detail, the
regulatory framework for new investment to new investors.
*  Social Protection. Under the ERC, two measures were implemented to protect the
poor during the adjustment period. First, despite strong fiscal adjustment measures,
as agreed under the ERC, the 1996 budget maintained the expenditures on health and
education at the 1995 level as a percentage of GDP. Second, in parallel, a public
works project (PWP) designed to generate employment while improving
infrastructure and other services was implemented. The Memorandum of the
President for the ERC states that even though the employment generated by the PWP
was likely to be modest, the Government felt that it would enhance the political
acceptability of the adjustment measures.4 The most recent supervision report for the
PWP indicates that the implementation of the project is progressing well. The PWP
has generated employment, created useful infrastructure, as well as created an
efficient institutional structure for carrying out public works in the future.
8.    The untied balance of payments financing provided by the ERC was an important
component of the financing plan for 1996. As the data for 1996 indicate, the $60 million first
tranche disbursed under the ERC in 1996 amounted to almost 25% of the quick disbursing
financing needed to close the balance of payments gap. The other elements of the financing plan
included: financing from IMF, debt relief on Naples terms from the Paris Club, and additional
tntied support from bilateral donors.
D.   Bank Performance
9.    While formulating the ERC, the task team spent a lot of time discussing and explaining
the main issues to the Government officials as well as other stakeholders such as the business
community and the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. This process began with the
preparation of a Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) in 1995. The CEM was based on
detailed papers on major issues to be addressed in the ERC such as trade reform, privatization
and regulatory reform. In addition, during the preparation and appraisal the task team prepared
detailed policy papers on all aspects of the reform program which explained the logic of the
policy reform and outlined the implications to output, employment, and the poor.
These papers were intensively discussed with all the main stakeholders in Yemen. These
discussions were very helpful in building support for the program and reaching the formal
agreements.
4  MOP for the ERC para. 49, pp.13



5
10.   The implementation of the operation proceeded smoothly and the second tranche was
disbursed within six months of the first tranche. The smooth implementation of the operation
was due to a number of factors. First, the program was heavily front loaded. Most contentious
issues were discussed in advance and actions were taken before the first tranche release.
Second, the task team used the supervision missions to provide substantial informal technical
assistance to complete studies, draw up action plans and coordinate work going on in different
ministries.
E.   Borrower Performance
11.   The ERC was formulated and negotiated during a period of great economic distress and
social and political turmoil in Yemen. The Government should be complemented for both the
boldness and the speed with which the reform program was implemented. To begin with, the
Government implemented a difficult and unpopular stabilization program which involved a
sixfold depreciation of the exchange rate and a sharp reduction of the budget deficit which
involved a sharp reduction in the real wages of public servants. Amongst ERC policies, the
Government was concerned about the adverse impact of the liberalization of trade and
investment on the customs revenue, profitability of domestic firms and on employment.
Although the design of the ERC addressed some of these concerns (see section F), the
Government boldly implemented policies which were sure to be unpopular in certain sections of
the society. These include actions such as the abolition of the negative list for investment
incentives by the GIA, which, while benefiting most potential investors was sure to hurt some.
The abolition of import bans on a number of goods and reducing the tariff rates would also hurt
some existing producers. Further, the Government should also be credited for the speed with
which some of the institutional reforms were carried out by drawing upon the technical work
done by the Bank's team. These include setting up the Technical Privatization Office (TPO),
setting up a new financial monitoring mechanism for PEs in the MOF and adopting a simplified
sub-project selection arrangements in the public works project.
F.    Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome and Key Lessons Learned
12.   Sustainability: Developments since the closing of the credit have shown that the reform
program supported by the project is sustainable. There has been no reversal of measures taken in
any part of the program and further progress continues to be made on all the action plans agreed
upon even after the credit has formally closed. First, this is due to the commitment shown by the
Government at the highest levels to the reforn program. Second, the Bank and the IMF have
jointly identified the next phase of the reforms which have been supported by an Extended
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) of the IMF. Third, we are also supporting the momentum
for reforns by a series of follow-up operations. The ERC was followed up immediately by a
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), to improve the efficiency and finances of the
banking sector and thereby lay the basis for an expansion in lending to business and growth. We
are also actively preparing a credit to expand the privatization program initiated under the ERC.
13.   Assessment of Outcome: In terms of its impact on the economy, the ERC improved the
trade regime, laid down the basis for privatization and improved the regulatory environment. Yet



6
the gains in terms of an acceleration in growth, although in line with the projections in the ERC
documents, have been modest, at about 4-5% p.a.5 Especially disappointing has been the
continued low private foreign direct investment. In this regard, the Government has already
implemented policies to simplify the investment law and improve the working of the GIA agreed
upon under the ERC. Analyses carried out since the ERC6 was implemented indicate that
foreign investors are primarily influenced by a supporting environment and well functioning
infrastructure rather than by the specific financial incentives offered under the GIA law.
14.   We now recognize that further reforms, which go beyond those included in the ERC, are
needed if growth has to be accelerated to a sustained 6-7% range needed to make a dent in
poverty and unemployment. These reforms include, first, reforms in the financial sector to
improve the availability of credit; which have already been initiated. Second, reforms are needed
to improve governance. While we do not expect a reversal of the policies initiated under the
ERC, sustaining and accelerating the momentum of actions to the next phase of reforms will not
be easy. The second phase of reforms, especially those aimed at improving governance are
intrinsically difficult and time consuming because they involve changing the mind set of
Government officials. They include administrative reforms to improve Government services to
businessmen, and legal and judicial reforms. Third, critical investments are needed to create key
infrastructure such as ports, free zones, roads and water to support an expansion of investment.
15.   The adverse impact of the ERC on the economy as well as on some sections of the
society was not as serious as expected by the Government prior to initiating the operation. First,
the depreciation of the Rial, replacement of the import bans by tariffs, and the increase in imports
more than compensated for the tariff reduction. Customs revenues in 1996 were nearly 26%
higher than in 1995. Second, domestic industry7 was able to adjust to the trade liberalization by
taking advantage of lower input costs and the sharp depreciation of the exchange rate. No plant
closures or layoffs were recorded. Third, the beneficial impact of the acceleration in growth and
sharply lower inflation on the poor, mitigated the adverse impact of the lower wheat subsidies
and stagnation in public sector wages. In addition, maintaining expenditures in health and
education protected the level of these services to the poor. Finally, in line with expectations, the
public works project helped the poor by creating employment as well as enhanced the political
acceptability of the adjustment measures.
16.   Key Lessons: The ERC experience suggests two lessons for designing similar operations
in the future, both of which could be traced to the weak institutions in Yemen.
* Institutional weakness, especially lack of coordination between various Ministries
responsible for different components of the reform program, made the discussion of
the reform program difficult. The Government was never able to put together a
5  See Appendix, the borrower's assessment of the ERC.
6  FIAS, "Yemen, Investors' perceptions and diagnosis of the environment for foreign investment", June 1997
Some industries are facing problems in exporting to Saudi Arabia due to Saudi customs problems which are
unrelated to ERC policies.



7
intersectoral team8 which could discuss/negotiate the policies as one "program". The
ERC team therefore had to negotiate each component of the reform program with the
concerned Ministry or Agency often resolving interministerial disputes. This was
difficult and very time consuming. For the future, it would be a good idea to provide
technical assistance early in the preparation of the operation to create and strengthen
the secretariat for the Higher Economic Council or a similar inter-ministerial group.
Alternatively, the operation could focus on reforms in one sector, headed by a strong
reform minded Minister, rather than develop an intersectoral program.
* The institutional weakness also underscores the need to support the implementation of
the reforms agreed upon under the operation by Technical Assistance. For instance,
in the ERC program, the areas where reforms have continued to be implemented
vigorously even after the operation closed, are those where TA support, a Bank
operation or the Bank's non lending services (NLS) continued to be available. These
included customs reforms, privatization and public expenditure reform. On the other
hand, in the area of investment and export promotion; and the restructuring of the
GIA, where the progress achieved under the ERC was not followed by either TA or
Bank operations, the momentum of the reforms has slowed down.
Towards the end of project preparation the Higher Economic Council (HEC) was entrusted with the task of
coordinating the implementation of the ERC and a senior official was appointed for this purpose. In practice,
however, this arrangement did not work well and the ERC team continued to deal separately with a large
number of agencies each responsible for its part of the reform program.



Appendix:  Borrower's Assessment          8
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING & DEVELOPMENT
Minister                                                     -
Ref:    19/31998
Date:
Mr. Inder K. Sud
Director,
Mliddle East Dept.
MENA Region
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Sud,
RE. Yemen-Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) - Implementation
Completion Report (aCR) -- Loan No. P-6817
Dear Mr. Sud,
Thank you for your letter dated February 4, 1998 requesting the Government's
assessment of the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC).
The ERC was our first adjustment lending operation. As you know, it was
developed at the time of great economic distress and political change in Yemen. In
retrospect I believe our experience with this credit has been very positive. The credit was
very tirnely in providing us the much needed balance of payment support as well as laying
the basis of a strong reform program which was later continued under the Financial Sector
Credit and the ESAF arrangement.
I believe all the objectives of the credit were fully met. The ERC specificaly
focused on four areas of reform.  First, as a result of progress in trade policy, we now
have a much more transparent trade regime and lower tariffs have reduced the import
costs to the industry and provided a more uniform protection. Second, in the area of
privatization, the creation of Technical Privatization Office (TPO) was very useful as was
the assistance provided to actually privatize/liquidate selected enterprises. Third, the ERC
reforms have greatly improved the functioning of the General Investment Authority (GIA).
and fourth the program  of supporting the poor under the Public Works Project was also
successfully implemented. Latest evaluation reports indicate that not only is the project
creating employment, it is also building crucial infrastructure.
P.O.Box (175) Sana'a TE1: 967-1-250118 Fax: 967.1-2 50665 Telex: 2266



9
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                              -
MINISTRY OF PLANNING & DEVELfPMENT
Minister
Ref:
Datee
Clearly, one of the reasons behind the success of the ERC was been the significamn
progress achieved in macroeconomic stabilization in parallel under the IM's Stand -by
arrangement (SBA). Significant steps were taken to reduce the fiscal deficit, stabilize the
currency at a much depreciated level and a tight monetary policy was followedt This
reduced inflation to a more manageable levels and made it possible to implement the
structural policies.
The success of the measures implemented under the ERC was also due to the close
cooperation between the World Bank staff and the Govenmment in the preparation stage. I
recall that the ERC team  spent a long time discussing the reforms and their impact with
my officials before formal agreements were drawn up and agreed upon. Similarly it was
these detailed discussions of the various scenarios of the irnpact of tariff reforms on
revenue and the industrial production which overcame the resistance from sectio as within
the Government for lowering the tariffs.
The, success of the measures implemented under the ERC is demonstrat.ed by the
fact that many of the reforrns initiated under the ERC have continued beyond the formal
closing of the loan. for instance we have continued with an action plan to streamline the
customs and implement measures to make the GIA into an agency to encourage rather
than regulate investment. Our privatization programn has made substantial progress under
the guidance of the TPO and we are expecting support from the forthcoming IDA
privatization project. We have also followed up the ERC with a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit designed to improve the efficiency of the banking system to lay the
basis for an increase in investment.
In terms of lessons learned I would strongly endorse the format of having close
discussions between Governrment and Bank staff before entering into formal agreements
as was the case in the ERC. The ERC team also made an effort to discuss the program
with the private sector and the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. These d-Iscussions,
at the preparation stage, I believe,  contributed significantly to the sustainability of the
reform program.
The ERC has clearly improved the business environment and laid the basis for an
increase in investment and grQwth. This was also followed up by the Financial sector
Loan, which was also designed to stimulate growth. However, while growth has
PC)   (175) S&ua:a cL: 967-1-250118 Fas: 967-1-250665 Telex: 2266



10
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
MINI[TRY OF PLNNING & OEVELOaPENT
Ref.;
Date:                                                                                   x;is
increased, the outcomes have been somewhat modest. We find that extemal and domestic
investors continue to remain cautous and non-oil investment levels remains low. Perhaps
this is a matter of perceptions of stability on the part of investors and will take time to
change. On the other hand, I wonder if more could have been done in the context of the
ERC in terms of specific growth and investment augmenting polices. This is a
matter of concern to the government and I would appreciate it if you could give further
thought to the problem.
Finally, I would like to thank you for your overall assistance and understanding
and especially the ERC team for their tremendous efforts they exerted in carrying-out
successfully the ERC.
With my best regards.
Abdul-Kader B'a Jamrnal
Minister of Planning and Developent
TPTO.:  (175y_)   a  't el:  i 96Y.1.T  I *A  7   6   Tl 2y)  266
P.f.B (175) Sana!a' 1:1 967-1oi250 la& paix: 967.1.25_565 Telx *26



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives  Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies       /V|
Sector policies                                                               l
Financial objectives          /
Institutional development                                                    |
Physical objectives                                                  V/
Poverty reduction                         /
Gender issues                                                                 l
Other social objectives       /
Environmental objectives                                             /
Public sector management      /
Private sector development                V
Other (specify)
B. Sustainabilitv             Likely     Unlikelv    Uncertain
C. Bank performance           Highly
satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification r
Preparation assistance        /
Appraisal                     /
Supervision                   V/
D. Borrower performance      Highly
satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                               V
Implementation                            /
Covenant coimpliance          V
Operation (if applicable)
Highlv                                 Highly
E. Assessment of outcome    satisfactory  Satisfactory Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
V/



12
Table 2: Related Bank Credits1
Credit Title                                        Purpose               Year of approval       Status'
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
C 2878-0 Public Works                 Mitigate potential adverse effects of    1996            Disbursing
economic adjustment. Deliver much
needed infrastructure services, improve
environmental and sanitary conditions
and enhance community participation in
preparing  and  implementing  sub-
projects for civil works.
C 2997-0 Financial  Sector  Adjustment Support Government's reforms with       1998            Disbursing
Credit                      respect to: (1) increasing the soundness
of the banking system and its role in
mobilizing  financial resources;  (2)
ensuring financial discipline within the
banking   sector;  (3)  facilitating
improvements in banks' loan portfolios;
(4)  reducing   the   Government's
operational   role   and   increase
competition in the sector; and (5)
strengthening accounting and auditing.
1. Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations with related
objectives. A limit of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.
2. As of April 30, 1998.



13
Table 3: Timetable
Steps in project cycle          Date planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification                                                   May 23, 1995
Preparation                                                    August 12, 1995
Appraisal                                 September 1995       October 30, 1995
Negotiations                               October 1995       December 18, 1995
Letter of development policy                                    March 7, 1996
Board presentation                        November 1995          April 9, 1996
Signing                                                         April 22, 1996
Effectiveness                                July 1996         August 27, 1996
First tranche release                        May 1996          August 27, 1996
Second tranche release                       Oct. 1996         January 27, 1997
Credit closing                              Dec. 31 1997      December 31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million
FY96              FY97
Appraisal estimate                   80
Actual                               50                30
Actual as % of estimate             62.5%
Date of final disbursement                          1/27/1997



14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Implementation
Area                           Indicators for the first tranche        Indicators for the second tranche
1. Macroeconomic         Adhered to the macroeconomic framework       Adhered to the macroeconomic
Framework             agreed in the context of the IMF SBA         framework agreed in the context of
the IMF SBA
2. Structural reforms
a. Trade Policy       Eliminated import bans except those agreed upon Formulated an action plan for improving
in an exception list.                       customs procedures
Eliminated discretion of Government agencies
to impose import bans or licensing
Eliminated product specific import licensing
Adopted new tariff structure with only four bands
: 30,15, 10 and 5%. 70% for cigarettes and
tobacco
Abolished duty exemptions for imports by
public enterprises and Government except
for wheat, crude oil and goods covered by
international agreements
Consolidated all surcharges into a single
tariffrate
Equalized excise tax rate for imports and
similar domestically produced goods
b. Privatization      Established regulations and guidelines for
and PE reforms     privatization
Established the TPO
Offered six PEs for sale                     Placed unsold PEs on a liquidation
schedule agreed with IDA
Offered additional ten PEs for sale
Drew up TOR for public utility reform study  Completed study and draw up action
plan
Consolidated monitoring of PEs in the MOF   Agreed on time bound action plan for
phasing out transfers to PEs
c. Regulatory reform  Abolished product based list for investment
incentives
Drew up TOR for the study of GIA             Completed study and agree on action
plan for GIA reform
d. Public                                                          Based on Bank's PER agreed on a
Expenditures                                                     medium term expenditure framework
3. Social protection     For 1996 maintained the social expenditures
measures              (as a % of GDP) at 1995 levels



15
Table 6: Yemen - Key Macroeconomic Indicators
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .#  ..-..........- .  ..g.#..#.#.     
l Domestic Inflation (°/O) 59~~~~~~~~~.54.3.                                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               .. . .  .... .. .. ..
l  Core Inflation  2/                       53.7          15.5         71<3          E   0          l2.3..................l
l  Investment                                   13.0          14.0        a.S    .--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................... ............
Gross Domestic~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                     . aig ... 2   0........        l   -   l-  -    .........
Gross National Savings                                14.0          11.5        29.6  - .Pr  -cted  I                  .......
..........'.. '      '                           '"'''"'''''''''"""'""'.'  "'.'"".'S:."':.'-...I
Gover~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19    1996 Reenes excl..A. grant  21.   3099-9
Overall Budgetary  Balance excl. grants         -8.0          -6~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  .... ..T........ W.........g 
.... .... .... .... .... ...   .                       .   ...
Memo Items: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... ...   ... .                            . ..
Merchandise                                   3.8          -3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~.0 ........-.......-. ......... ...... . ..... --  .... .......
Real Import Growth (GNFS) 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.51.6-e.0 ... .                  . . . .. . . . .   -m13- X... . . .. . .   .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .
Merchandise 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.01. 3                            . . . . . .. . . . . . ..  ... . . . . . . . . .   ...   .. . . . . . . . . . . .   ..-...l
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .. .              ......
Debt GDP Ratio 185~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5 1.5.                                                              .                 ......i9......  ..- lfM-6.
Debt Service Ratio  3/                          27.6          15~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4 ..... ........ .    ........ .........I.. I... - - g.
. .. . . . . .. . .. . .   . . .. . .. . .   . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . .   . . .. . . .. . .. .. .. .. . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  - , I . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . .
1/~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................... ..... ...................... of.Planning..
2/ Excludes the effects of administered price increases................................... .........
3/ Exports include goods, services and workers'..... remittances...................... ....... .............
4/   The rescheduling  at Naples terms became effective in the middle of 1996 rather than~~~~~~~~~........................
in the beginning of 1996 as was assumed in the projections.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........



16
Table 7: Studies Included in Credit Preparation
Study                 Purpose as defined        Status         Impact of Study
at appraisal/redefined 1/
Country Economic          To define the adjustment program Completed Helped Government officials to
Memo. (CEM)                                                        understand the program.
Privatization             Assist the privatization task force completed  Creation of the TPO. Successful
within the Ministry of Planning.         conclusion of the sale/liquidation
To prepare enterprises for sale.         of sixteen PEs.
Regulatory framework      Study for restructuring the GIA.  completed  Improved GIA operations.
Regulatory framework      Study to design the regulatory    Completed Will feed into the privatization
framework for utilities.                 project to follow.
Legal framework           Review and comment upon main completed  About nine legislations/regulations
laws for privatization and other         issued as a part of the project.
economic policies.
1/ Details available on file.
Table 8A: Costs of Credit Preparation
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimate
(US$million)              (US$million)
Item                      Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Totall
costs   costs             costs   costsl
1.Saf cost including travel                           0.6      0.6              0.6       0.6
2. PHRD Grant                                10.3                0.3   10.3                 0.3
Total                                                   0.9      0.9              0.9       0.9
Table 8B: Credit Financing
Appraisal estimate       Actual/latest estimate
(US$million)              (US$million)
IDA                                                     80       80                80       80
Total                                                   80       80                80       80



17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Benefits
The large development agenda facing Yemen needs several years of economic reform effort. ERC, in
conjunction with the parallel stabilization program supported by the IMF's SBA laid the basis for the
resumption of sustainable growth. Trade reform was at the heart of the ERC. The measures implemented
under trade reform laid the basis for an open and competitive economy. They strengthened the incentives
for export production through reducing the import costs of capital goods and intermediate goods as well
as benefited domestic consumers by lowering the costs of imported consumption goods. The ERC
launched the privatization program crucial to improve the efficiency of PEs, as well as to attract foreign
investment.  The ERC created an improved climate for both domestic and foreign investment by
reforming the GIA and investment incentives. Finally, although the employment created by the public
works project was modest, the project did create valuable infrastructure and innovative institutions for
service delivery.
The financing provided under the ERC was an important component of the financing plan for 1996,
which also included Paris Club rescheduling at Naples terms and additional bilateral assistance through
a Consultative Group (CG) on Yemen.
Costs
The adverse impact of ERC, on the poor was not as serious as anticipated by the Government. The
reduction of tariff barriers led to a restructuring of product lines rather than plant closures and layoffs.
The protection of budgetary outlays on health and education under the ERC was very beneficial to the
poor. The adverse impact of lower subsidies and stagnation in public sector wages to a large extent
was mitigated by the regeneration of growth, the sharp decline in inflation, the parallel public works
project and other Bank operations in the social sectors.
Similarly, the ERC program was designed to minimize the budgetary costs. The reduction in tariffs
was compensated to a very large extent by the exchange rate change, replacing the import bans by
tariffs and making tariffs more uniform within the maximum tariff rate. In fact, customs revenues in
1996 were nearly 26% above those in 1995.



18
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present                 Description of
Agreement   Section     type      status                   Covenant                        Comments
2840-0
3.01 (a)     10        C    Borrower and IDA to exchange views on the    In compliance.
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 2.
3.01 (b)     09        C    Borrower to furnish IDA for review and comments   In compliance.
a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
the Program in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
3.01 (c)     09        C    Borrower to exchange views with IDA on any    In compliance.
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement
of the Credit which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program,
or any action taken under the Program.
3.02 (a)     01        C    Upon IDA's request, Borrower to have the deposit   In compliance.
account audited, in accordance with the appropriate
auditing  principles  consistently  applied  by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
3.02 (b)     01        C    Borrower to furnish the Association as soon as   In compliance.
available but not later than 4 months after the date
of the Association's request for such audit, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors.
3.02 C)     01        C    Borrower to furnish the Association such other   In compliance.
informration concerning said deposit account and
the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably request.
Covenant types:                          Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                     C = covenant complied with
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds   CD = complied with after delay
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting   CP  complied with partially
10 = Project implementation not covered   NC = not complied with
by categories 1-0                   NA = not applicable
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 Description and comment on lack of compliance
(all relevant OM statements complied with)



19
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual (incl. Travel cost)
Stage of project cycle                 Weeks                  US$
Preparation to appraisal                           53.2              303,500
Appraisal                                          16.0               49,300
Negotiations through Board approval                13.2                49,600
Supervision                                        32.1              131,000
Completion                                         11.0               64,000
TOTAL                                           125.5               597,400
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number Specialized                  Performance rating
Stage of       of    Staff skills  Days in  Implementation    Development
project cycle   persons Represented   Field     Status         Objectives
Through appraisal
Identification
Preparation        1       TM         10
Pre-appraisal     3        S-2        30
Appraisal through   2        S-1       20
Board approval
Supervision:
First              3        S-1       20       Satisfactory     Satisfactory
Second             3        S-2       20       Satisfactory     Satisfactory
Completion                  TM
Specialized staff skills represented:
A = Task manager, macroeconomics, trade, financial sector.
S- I = Task manager, macroeconomics, trade,
S-2 = Task manager, macroeconomics, trade, financial sector, privatization, regulations.
S-3 = Task manager, macroeconomics, trade, financial sector privatization.
TM    =    Task
manager.



