Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6b8> T-t
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 53.7 MILLION (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MARCH 14, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



YEMEN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
Exchange Rate as of February 1996
Official Exchange Rate: YR 100/US$
Average Parallel Market Rate: YR 132/US$
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBY                 Central Bank of Yemen
CPI                 Consumer Price Index
CPPR                Country Portfolio Performance Review
ERC                 Economic Recovery Credit
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GIA                 General Investment Authority
GNP                 Gross National Product
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
LEP                 Letter of Economic Policy
LNG                 Liquid Natural Gas
LPG                 Liquid Petroleum Gas
MOPD                Ministry of Planning and Development
NGO                 Non-governmental Organization
PC                  Privatization Committee
PC(I)               Privatization Committee, Industrial Sector
PC(NI)              Privatization Committee, Non-Industrial Sectors
PC(H)               Privatization Committee, Housing Sector
PDRY                People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PE                  Public Enterprise
PER                 Public Expenditure Review
PHRD                Population and Human Resource Development
PIP                 Portfolio Implementation Plan
PSI                 Pre-shipment inspection
RF                  Russian Federation
ROY                 Republic of Yemen
SBA                 Stand-by Arrangement
TPO                 Technical Privatization Office
YAR                 Yemen Arab Republic
YR                  Yemen Riyal
WTO                 World Trade Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Republic of Yemen
Economic Recovery Credit
Table of Contents
CREDIT SUMMARY  .
I.  INTRODUCTION ............1 
II. COUNTRY CONTEXT. . .                                                            I
A. Political Background             ..1
B.    Economic Background and Major Issues       ..                         2
C.    Challenges for the Future.    ...........................   .. 5
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM                      ...                      5
A.  Overall Program Objectives          ..                                  5
B.  Macroeconomic Stabilization          ..                                 6
C. Structural Reform                            ..7
D.    Social Protection During Adjustment     ..13
iV.   MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS  . .  14
V.  BANK STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED ERC   . .16
A.    Bank Strategy and Country Relations      ..16
B.    The Proposed Economic Recovery Credit (ER)   .         .18
C.  Rationale for IDA Involvement    ..20
D. The Financing Package    ..20
E. Project Management    ..21
F. Benefits and Risks    ..21
VI. RECOMMENDATION .22
Annex 1 Letter of Economic Policy and the Matrix of Proposed Policy Actions
Annex 2 Statistical Tables
Annex 3 Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Annex 4 IDA Credits in Operations Portfolio
Annex 5 Statement of IFC Investments
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit Summary
BorTower:                 Republic of Yemen
Amount:                   SDR53,700,000 (US$80 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Repayment in 40 years, including 10 years grace,
on IDA terms.
Objectives:               The proposed Economic Credit (ERC) is an essential component of
IDA's assistance strategy for Yemen. This strategy aims to support:
economic stabilization; structural reforms; social protection; improved
portfolio implementation and the sustainability of past and future
investments; and sustainable development, with a focus on the
management of water, population growth, and human resource
development. The main objectives of the ERC are to: (a) support the
Government's stabilization and structural reform program; (b) improve
the incentives framework for private sector development; and (c) ease
the shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance critical imports to
facilitate a supply response.
Description:              The main reforms to be supported by the ERC relate to trade
liberalization; privatization and public enterprise reform; and
improvement of the regulatory framework. The specific measures to
be supported are outlined in the Government's Letter of Economic
Policy (attached as Annex I). The attachments to this letter include a
matrix detailing actions taken prior to Board presentation of the ERC
and those to be taken prior to second tranche release.
Benefits:                 The ERC is designed to help lay down the basis for the resumption of
economic growth and for sustaining it over the longer term. First, it
would complement the Government's stabilization program and
contribute to the reduction of fiscal and external payments imbalances,
and of inflationary pressures. Second, it would help improve the
economic environment for increased investment, efficiency, growth,
and employment. Third, it would be accompanied by selected social
protection measures that would reduce any transitory negative effects
of stabilization and structural reforms.



- ii -
Risks:                     The main risks to the reform program are: (a) relatively weak
administrative capacity to monitor, analyze, and implement policy
reforms; (b) possible adverse reaction to reform measures, albeit for
different reasons, by the vulnerable and the poor on the one hand, and
by the privileged groups on the other; and (c) failure to substantially
restructure the country's external debt.
Disbursements:             The ERC would disburse in two tranches. The first tranche of
SDR33,500,000 (US$50 million equivalent) would be available for
disbursement upon credit effectiveness. The remaining
SDR20,200,000 (US$30 million equivalent) would be disbursed in a
second tranche, scheduled for October 1996.
Cofinancing:               Cofinancing is being sought.
Poverty Category:          Not Applicable
Project Identification
Number:                    41302



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC) to the Republic of Yemen for SDR53,700,000 (US$80 million equivalent). The
credit would be on IDA terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years grace period. Cofinancing for
quick-disbursing balance of payments assistance is being sought. The status of the Yemeni economy and
its medium-term economic reform program are detailed in the recent country economic report." The
Country Assistance Strategy for Yemen was discussed by the Board on February 20, 1996.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    Yemen is at a critical juncture in developing and implementing its reform program. In an effort
to bring inflation under control and to stabilize the exchange rate, the authorities have been implementing
a 1995 budget aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit to less than half of its 1994 level as a percentage of
GDP. This budget, the first since 1992, was passed by Parliament after a prolonged debate. In the
process, a consensus emerged that economic reform must continue and that the budgetary measures were
the first important step along this path. In May-June 1995, the Government began discussing a
stabilization program with the IMF, and an agreement was reached on a 15-month Stand-by Arrangement
(SBA) beginning January 1996. At the same time, the Government sought support from IDA for its
structural reform program aimed at initiating and sustaining economic recovery. The ERC is designed
to provide support for the initial phase of the reform program.
II. COUNTRY CONTEXT
A. Political Background
3.    The Republic of Yemen (ROY) was established in May 1990, when the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR) in the north and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) in the south were unified.
North Yemen had been traditionally ruled by a feudal system and virtually closed to the outside world
until 1962, when an army coup overthrew the last Imam and declared the formation of the YAR.
Following an eight-year civil war with the royalists, a republican government took control in 1970. South
Yemen had been under British rule for a century and a half, with the port of Aden serving as an entreport
for British trading interests, until nationalist forces took over in 1967; PDRY became an independent
country in 1970.
4.    Initial efforts in both countries focused on building the structures of modern independent states.
With the South adopting a socialist command economic system and the North a capitalist one, both
countries proceeded to develop their basic physical, social, and institutional infrastructure.
"  "Republic of Yemen: Dimensions of Economic Adjustment and Structural Reform," May 17. 1995 (Report No. 14029-YEM).



The Republic of Yemen                       - 2 -
5.     The unified Government had designated 1990-92 as a transition period, during which time it
concentrated on the difficult task of merging the two administrations and realigning the two economic
systems. Rationalization of administrative functions has been somewhat slow, partly because a difficult
economic situation and rising unemployment have prevented the Government from restructuring the civil
service. The transition period culminated in nation-wide parliamentary elections in April 1993. No party
won a majority, and a coalition Government was formed by three leading parties. Serious differences
arose, however, between two of these parties, leading to a conflict between the Northern and Southern
armies during May-July 1994. Following the cessation of hostilities, a coalition of two leading parties
was formed for the unified country.
B. Economic Background and Major Issues2'
6.     The economies of both the North and the South grew rapidly in the 1970s, followed by a
slowdown in the mid-1980s. Despite some important differences, the development strategy in both
countries prior to unification was inward-looking, public-sector-led, and dependent on external financial
assistance and workers' remittances. While this strategy might have served the initial objectives of
building new states, it gave rise to a number of economic problems and proved ineffective in dealing
with others. The main economic problems currently facing the country are: (a) macroeconomic
imbalances and instability; (b) a large, inefficient, and heavily indebted public sector; (c) repressed
international trade; (d) remaining price controls; (e) a restrictive legal and regulatory environment; (f)
continuing poverty; (g) rapid population growth and inadequate human resource development; and (h)
increasingly severe water shortages.
7.     Macroeconomic Imbalances and Instability. These problems were exacerbated by the reduced
economic activity in the Gulf countries around the mid-1980s. Both Yemens, highly dependent on labor
remittances, began facing foreign exchange limitations. Government attempts to maintain overvalued
exchange rates caused a massive flight of transactions into the informal market. In the North, in
anticipation of domestic oil revenues, fiscal control was relaxed. In the South, major economic hardship
followed sharply declining assistance from the former socialist bloc. The inefficient public enterprises
(PEs) that forrned the bulk of the southern economy failed to adjust to market conditions and began
reducing production. Inflation increased in both countries, and the national currencies began depreciating
in the informal market. Despite persistent advice from the IMF, the World Bank, and bilateral donors,
neither country was prepared to embark on an adjustment program.
8.     Following the decline in economic activity in the late 1980s, GDP rebounded in 1992. Favorable
rains that year led to strong performance in agriculture. Growth accelerated in 1993 to 5.9 percent, due
to a 19 percent increase in oil production. Although oil output increased by a further 56 percent in 1994
due to the coming on stream of new fields, output in the non-oil sectors declined by 5.6 percent, mainly
due to the effects of the internal military conflict, resulting in a stagnant overall GDP growth. GDP is
estimated to have grown by about 3.6 percent in 1995 due to the continued increase in oil production
combined with a return to normalcy following the conflict. Unemployment in Yemen, especially after
the influx of returnees from the Gulf countries, has been relatively high (around 25 percent). Urban
inflation accelerated from 51 percent in 1992 to an officially estimated 72 percent in 1994 despite attempts
to repress it through controlling prices of key commodities. Inflation is estimated to have dropped to
2/ For more details, see "Republic of Yemen: Dimensions of Economic Adjustment and Structural Reform," (Report No. 14029-
YEM).



The Republic of Yemen                        - 3 -
about 50 percent in 1995 due to the fiscal measures implemented during the course of the year (see para.
24). The net effect is that per capita GNP for 1994 is estimated at about US$2803', or well below the IDA
eligibility cut-off.
9.     The balance of payments continued to suffer from  structural weaknesses such as heavy
dependence on private transfers, a limited export base (non-oil exports accounted for less than 10 percent
of total exports of goods in 1994), and volatile crude oil export revenues. As a result, the current
account deficit widened from 24 percent of GDP in 1992 to about 30 percent in 1993. Due to a doubling
of oil export revenues in 1994 and a further increase in 1995, this deficit turned into a surplus of 3.6
percent in 1994 and 1.1 percent in 1995. These surpluses have, however, not been sufficient to meet the
debt obligations falling due and contractual repayments to oil companies, resulting in overall deficits of
between 14 and 17 percent of GDP. These have been financed mainly by accumulating debt arrears.
10.    Yemen's external debt is around US$8.8 billion, more than twice Yemen's GDP in 1994, with
a substantial share owed to the Russian Federation. Given the scarcity of foreign exchange resources,
Yemen has fallen into arrears to the Russian Federation and more recently to other bilateral creditors,
which undermined its creditworthiness and its ability to obtain suppliers' credit.
11.    The Government's preoccupation with administering the unification process and the problems
arising from the 1994 internal military conflict overshadowed concerns about deteriorating public
finances. As a result, the budget deficit on a cash basis remained very large, at over 16 percent of GDP
during 1992-94.   Current expenditures, particularly for the civil service and the military wage bill,
dominated the budget and crowded out development expenditures. Large fiscal deficits and recourse to
Central Bank financing have been the primary factors underlying the high inflation rate prevailing since
1991. The budget deficits have customarily been funded largely through domestic bank financing.
Financing through external sources has declined since 1990 and reached 0.5 percent of GDP in 1994.
Domestic non-bank financing has not been utilized. Government borrowing from the domestic banks
accounted for almost the entire domestic credit growth. The velocity of circulation of money and
substitution of the Yemeni Riyal (YR) into foreign currencies, mainly into US dollars, increased
significantly. As a result, the parallel market exchange rate for the YR rapidly depreciated. By the end
of 1994, the official rate was YR12/$, while the parallel market rate was YR130/$. Following the
devaluation of the official rate to YR50/$ in April 1995, the parallel market rate depreciated to almost
YR150/$. In recent months, the parallel market rate stabilized in the YR1 10-YR120/$ range.
12.    A Large Public Sector. Past policies in both the North and the South have resulted in a large
public sector and an intrusive role of the government in the economy. This is evident from the magnitude
and pattern of public expenditures, the heavy involvement of the state and public enterprises (PEs) in the
production of goods and services, and the intervention of the state in markets through excessive regulation
or controls. Irrespective of the inability of the public sector to finance its activities through taxation and
other revenues, the magnitude of Yemen's public expenditures must be considered large, amounting to
over 40 percent of GDP, not including a number of programs financed off-budget (e.g., wheat subsidies).
Beyond this, recent budgetary constraints have resulted in a reordering of expenditure patterns.
Reflecting the Government's reluctance to downsize public employment, which was accentuated further
by unification, government personnel costs now absorb a disproportionate share of public resources,
31 As measured by the World Bank Atlas methodology. Despite growth of about 5-6 percent per annum over 1992-94, in Riyal
terns, the GNP per capita in dollar terms fell over the same period due to the depreciation of the Riyal.



The Republic of Yemen                      - 4 -
leaving little funding for development expenditures, and for necessary operations and maintenance
expenditures. In 1994, the central government wage bill, including military salaries, absorbed almost
54 percent of total government expenditure.
13.   Another legacy of past policies is a large and diverse public enterprise sector. There are currently
some 200 PEs and entities, most of which are located in the former socialist South Yemen. Many of
these are incurring losses, and several are not even operating. The losses are covered by budgetary
transfers (amounting to about 4 percent of public expenditures) and by accumulating arrears. Many of
the PEs suffer from poor operational and financial management, but continue to carry staff on their
payrolls. The PE work force is estimated at 76,000, of which about 30,000 receive salaries directly from
the budget because their work places are either insolvent or closed. Reliable financial or personnel data
about the PE sector are not available. The PE sector is by and large inefficient and a heavy burden on
the country's resources.
14.   Repressed International Trade. Yemen has used highly protective trade policies. The overall
effect of these policies has been to suppress trade, encourage inefficient domestic production, and
undermine the growth of non-oil exports. Average nominal tariffs of 27 percent are relatively high
compared to those in Eastern Europe, Latin America, and East Asia, which are now often in the 5 to 10
percent range. An anti-export bias also exists on account of various regulations, taxes, and inefficiencies
that increase the transaction costs of importing and exporting. There is a comprehensive system of import
licensing, and associated fees and paperwork impose additional costs on business. Both imports and
exports are impeded by inefficiencies and restrictions imposed by the customs administration. Exports
are constrained not only because of trade restrictions, but also because exporters do not have access to
a well-functioning duty drawback and temporary entry mechanism. Export bans are imposed on
commodities considered to be in short domestic supply by the authorities. Without significant trade
liberalization through the removal of regulatory, fiscal, and operational constraints, Yemen risks falling
further behind in export markets and in attracting foreign direct investment.
15.   Remaining Price Controls. In recent years, direct price controls on most privately produced
or privately traded commodities have been lifted or rendered largely inoperative. There are, however,
some key goods and commodities where Government price controls persist. These controls have
contributed to severe price distortions (with incorrect signals to both consumers and producers),
unsustainable fiscal deficits, loss of export opportunities (e.g., in petroleum and its derivatives), and
disincentives for domestic production (e.g., of wheat). The main price distortions are found in public
utilities (power and water), the petroleum sector, and wheat and wheat flour. Until recently, the price
of cement was fixed, but is now free as a result of the reform program.
16.   Restrictive Legal and Regulatory Framework. The private sector faces pervasive problems due
to shortcomings in the legal system, including inadequate protection of property rights and inadequate
enforcement of contracts. In general, the problem is not so much with the laws as such, but rather with
the ways in which they are applied. There is general dissatisfaction with the functioning of commercial
courts. As a consequence, the private sector typically faces severe difficulties in carrying out what should
be straightforward tasks, such as entering into and enforcing contracts. Furthermore, private investment
is hampered by a system of project licensing which is often time-consuming and restrictive.
17.   Continuing Poverty. While the country experienced some limited economic growth in the past
two decades, Yemen remains one of the poorest countries in the world. A very rapid population growth



The Republic of Yemen                     - 5 -
of over 3.5 percent annually aggravates the situation by increasing the burden on the economy in terms
of the need for providing additional basic services and employment opportunities. The adverse effects
of rapid population growth in Yemen are all the more pressing in view of the country's acute water
shortage. While some improvement in social indicators has taken place since 1970, Yemen ranks near
the bottom of the list of countries in nearly every social indicator, such as life expectancy, infant
mortality, literacy, and schooling.
C. Challenges for the Future
18.   To achieve sustainable growth and alleviate poverty, it has become clear that a new development
strategy is required. With an annual population growth rate of over 3.5 percent, Yemen needs to achieve
and sustain an annual growth rate of at least 4-5 percent over the medium term to assure a moderate
increase in living standards. Given the inadequacies of the public sector and poor public finances, the
source of growth for the future has to be the private sector. The main challenge, therefore, is for the
Government to foster private-sector-led growth based on higher levels of investment and an efficient
allocation of resources. Given the decline in external financing, such investment will need to be
increasingly financed from national (including expatriate) savings, supplemented by non-debt creating
foreign capital.
19.   Accordingly, the strategy for the modernization and development of the Yemeni economy will
need to be based on a reduced role of the public sector in the economy, the development of a vibrant
private sector, and export diversification. The Government therefore, would need to open the economy
to stronger competition, create an environment conducive to private sector investment and growth, and
stress improvement in human capital through education.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM
A. Overall Program Objectives
20.   In an effort to deal with the country's substantial economic problems, the Government has
designed a comprehensive program  of economic stabilization and structural adjustment.4'  The
Government's program has as its ultimate goal sustainable economic growth and the improvement of the
living standards of the Yemeni people. The program began with the adoption of a new budget by
Parliament in March 1995 and the implementation of some stabilization and structural reform measures;
since then additional reform measures have been devised and are in the process of being implemented.
21.   The Government's program  focuses on two main areas:  (a) stabilization to restore
macroeconomic balance and reduce inflation; and (b) structural reform and adjustment to stimulate
medium- and long-term economic growth. The Government also plans to adopt some urgent measures
to minimize the negative transitory impact on the vulnerable groups during adjustment. The longer term
social protection, especially reduction in poverty over a broad front, would require sustained economic
growth, upgrading the skills and productivity of the poor, and development of alternative mechanisms
to government intervention in assisting the poor. The implementation of macroeconomic stabilization
policies is being supported by the SBA expected to be presented to the Fund Board in March 1996. The
implementation of the initial phase of structural reforms is to be supported by the proposed ERC.
41 The Bank and the IMF have worked closely in assisting the Government in designing this programn.



The Republic of Yemen                     - 6 -
22.   In designing the economic reform program, the Government has taken into account a number of
considerations. Central among them are: (a) the fiscal dimensions and consequences of the reform
measures; (b) expansion of private sector investment, output, and employment; (c) increased economic
efficiency; and (d) the administrative capacity for applying the policy measures.
23.   This is the first time that the Yemeni Government has embarked upon a program of structural
reform. Accordingly, the program outlined above should be viewed as the first phase of continuing
reforms, which are expected to become deeper and broader, with further support from donors, including
IDA.
B. Macroeconomic Stabilization
24.     The most pressing challenge facing the authorities is the reduction of the fiscal imbalance and
the resulting inflationary pressures. In conjunction with the 1995 budget, a number of revenue and
expenditure measures were implemented. These measures included adjustment of the official and customs
exchange rates from YR12/$ and YR18/$, respectively, to YR50/$. They also included revenue measures
such as an increase in the price of cement (which has subsequently been freed), petroleum products, and
electricity. The main measures on the expenditure side included a reduction in the wage bill by almost
4 percentage points of GDP. The budget deficit fell from 16.7 percent of GDP (on a cash basis) in 1994
to an estimated 6.6 percent of GDP in 1995, and with substantially lower bank financing inflation fell
to about 50 percent.
25.   Budget Measures. As mentioned in paragraph 21 above, the Government's stabilization program
is being supported by an IMF SBA. Achieving a sustainable fiscal position is central to the stabilization
program. The Government's objective is to further reduce the fiscal deficit on a cash basis to around 3.5
percent of GDP in 1996 and to about 2.5 percent of GDP over the medium term. Expenditure measures
include scaling back real current transfers, reducing subsidies by 5 percentage points of GDP, and
limiting the growth of the civil service wage bill. Revenue measures include increases in the prices of
petroleum products, electricity, water, wheat, and wheat flour; and the rationalization of import tariffs
as well as excise taxes. The Government plans to increase the weighted average price of petroleum
products to international levels by the 1998 budget and to phase out the wheat and flour subsidy. In
January 1996, the weighted average price of petroleum products was increased by 80 percent, the base
price for wheat and flour were raised by 150 percent, and electricity and water tariffs by 120 percent.
The reduction in the budget deficit eliminates domestic bank financing and, consequently, broad money
growth is forecast to decline to 15 percent in 1996 compared to 18 percent in 1995, resulting in a
reduction in the inflation rate (CPI) to 30 percent.
26.   Exchange Rates and Monetary Policy. The Government has adopted a floating exchange rate
regime which applies to all transactions except budget accounting and customs valuation. For the latter
purposes, a depreciated official rate of YR100/$ will be used for a short dual-rate transitional period at
the end of which rates would be unified. Monetary policy measures include an increase in the benchmark
deposit rates in order to ensure positive real rates in 1996. In addition, the Government initiated, in
December 1995, treasury bill auctions for budget financing.



The Republic of Yemen                      - 7 -
C. Structural Reform
27.   While stabilization is necessary for the economic recovery of Yemen, fostering sustainable
economic growth requires additional reforms primarily to create an enabling environment for private
sector investment and employment. The first phase of the Government's program includes reforms
relating to trade liberalization, privatization and PE reform, and the improvement of the regulatory
framework. Complementing the proposed stabilization measures, these reforms would improve the
overall incentives framework and economic efficiency and facilitate private sector development. The
following sections highlight the key issues (discussed in more detail in Section II above) in each area,
outline the country's medium-term objectives, and specify the measures being supported by the ERC.
Trade Policy Reform
28.   Medium-term Objectives. Over the medium term, the Government aims at reducing the level
of tariff protection substantially and attaining an import-weighted average tariff rate of 10 percent or less.
The Government also intends to seek membership of the World Trade Organization (WTO). This
membership will increase the credibility of the Government's trade reform program, and help Yemen
adapt its trade laws and institutions to conform with accepted international practices. The credibility of
trade reform would be enhanced through the binding of tariffs and the need to conform with multilateral
rules and minimum standards that apply in areas such as customs valuation, the service sector, and
intellectual property protection.
29.   The Initial Phase of the Program. As a first, substantial step towards implementing the
medium-term trade liberalization program, the Government has: (a) eliminated quantitative restrictions;
(b) reduced the level of import tariffs; and (c) reformed and simplified the tariff structure. The details
of actions taken are as follows:
Non-tariff Policies
(a)    All import bans (on certain nuts and spices, salt, millet, barley, ready-made wooden
doors and windows, and henna) and quantitative restrictions have been eliminated and
replaced by tariffs not exceeding the new maximum rate of 30 percent (see below).
Exceptions have been made only for coffee, fresh fruits and vegetables produced locally,
and goods that are banned for national security or religious reasons.
(b)    Ministerial discretion to ban an individual export, or to license or regulate exports, except
to safeguard national security or cultural heritage, has been eliminated.
(c)    Product-specific import licensing requirements, except for reasons of national security,
public health, religion, or protection of the environment, in accordance with the standards
adopted by competent Yemeni authorities, have been eliminated.



The Republic of Yemen                     - 8 -
Tariff Policies
(d)    The depreciation of the official exchange rate and the customs valuation rate from
YR12/$ to YR50/$ in 1995 potentially increased the average effective tariff from about
6 percent to about 9 percent. Further adjustment in the exchange rate and the customs
valuation rate would further increase the effective tariff level; if imports were valued at
the current market exchange rate, the average potential tariff would be about 27 percent.
As such, there is a need to reduce the level of nominal tariffs to ensure that effective
average tariffs following the current reforms do not exceed a moderate 15 percent level.
To this end, the Government has simplified and rationalized the tariff structure into
essentially four bands (compared to the previous 15 bands). The new maximum tariff
band is 30 percent (the only exception being cigarettes and tobacco imports which will
be subject to a 70 percent tariff). Finished goods will be subject to a 15 percent tariff;
raw materials and components to a 10 percent tariff; and basic foodstuffs, medicines,
agricultural inputs, and capital goods to a five percent tariff. A precise mapping of
existing tariffs into the new tariff structure has been made. Assuming a market rate of
YR125/$ and a customs valuation rate of YR100/$, the projected import-weighted
average tariff burden is estimated to be 13 percent.
(e)    Duty exemptions for imports by PEs and the Government have been abolished.
However, duty exemptions granted under existing contracts, international agreements,
and those for wheat, wheat flour, and crude oil (for re-export) remain.
(f)    All fees and surcharges on imports have been abolished.
Other Trade Taxes
(g)    The Customs Department was previously required to apply a higher excise tax rate on
imports than the rate applicable to comparable domestic products. The Government has
now harmonized the excise tax rates for similar imported and domestic products.
30.   Tariff Revenue Impact. The impact of the tariff reform on revenues is subject to some
uncertainty, as it depends on the response of the economy to the reform program. In support of the
stabilization measures, the tariff reform is designed to be revenue enhancing. Taking into account the
fact that legislated and contractual exemptions would remain under the program, and adjusting for
possible leakage through smuggling and other avoidance mechanisms, revenues are estimated to increase
from a projected YR15-17 billion in 1995 to some YR22 billion in 1996.
31.   For the longer term, revenue collection would need to be improved which, in turn, would require
strengthening of the Customs Department. The level of smuggling is already high under the current
regime when effective tariffs are substantially lower than what they would be under the reformed tariff
system. It is important, therefore, that actions are taken to strengthen customs administration and to
reduce the cost of the 'red tape' that currently confronts traders. Efforts must also be made to ensure
that exporters are able to obtain imports of intermediate inputs at world prices through effective duty
drawback and temporary admission mechanisms which, in turn, depend upon efficient customs
administration. Given the serious organizational and personnel weaknesses of the Department,
strengthening the Department will take some time and will require technical assistance. A key



The Republic of Yemen                      - 9 -
requirement is to implement new, simplified procedures and to significantly increase the use of computers
for customs clearance and record-keeping. As a short-term mechanism to combat under-invoicing and
to offset existing weaknesses in the Department, the Government is considering the option of introducing
pre-shipment inspection.
32.   A technical assistance program is being developed to assist the Govermnent in upgrading the
customs administration. A long-term customs expert (funded by the IMF/UNDP) is to be stationed in
Sana'a. This expert would identify ways to simplify customs operations and procedures, and prepare for
the automation of customs clearance. A joint mission (IDA, IMF, and UNCTAD) would help prepare
for the computerization of customs operations. Based on this assistance, the Government would formulate
an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for improving and streamlining customs procedures. The Government
has requested IDA assistance for further and more comprehensive reforms in this area.
Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform
33.   Recognizing the unnecessary and unsustainable burden of the PE sector on the economy and the
budget, the Government initiated a privatization program in early 1995. Although attempts were made
to privatize a few selected PEs during the last few years, these were unsuccessful. Privatization,
however, gained significant momentum during 1995.
34.   The Medium-Term Program. In January 1995, the Government announced that it would
privatize (or liquidate) by the year 2000 a group of 100 PEs and other entities accounting for about 70
percent of the PE sector in employment terms (data on assets, production, or value added are not readily
available). The PEs to be privatized would cover a broad range of sectors: industry, tourism, agriculture,
fishing, transportation, construction, trade, electricity, financial institutions, oil, and minerals.5'
35.   The Government is fully committed to implementing its privatization program, and a consensus
has emerged on major policy elements. The Government's overall strategy is to withdraw completely
from the competitive sectors; encourage an expanding role of the private sector in providing infrastructure
services; strengthen the supportive institutional framework; monitor the performance of PEs and enforce
financial discipline on them; and liquidate the PEs that are insolvent or which do not receive any bids
within a given time.
36.   The Government plans to: (a) implement its privatization program in three phases of one to three
years each; (b) proceed quickly with the first phase (1995-96); and (c) establish the needed institutions
and procedures during the first phase to help implement the privatization program in phases two (1996-
97) and three (1998-2000). Privatization of utilities is part of the third phase; the emphasis in the first
phase is to review and prepare the appropriate regulatory framework to increase competition prior to the
privatization of utilities.
5' Since January 1995, IDA has provided technical assistance to develop the Govermnent's privatization program and a data base
for the PE sector.



The Republic of Yemen                       - 10 -
37.    PEs to be privatized in the first phase were identified by the Government keeping in view several
criteria: the competitive sectors should be given priority; the PEs should be readily privatizable (that is,
they should be medium- and small-size, with readily available financial and other data); and they should
have a manageable size of liabilities and excess labor.
38.   In the first phase, supported by the ERC, a total of 16 PEs are to be offered for sale by October
31, 1996. The preliminary list of PEs to be privatized includes 11 PEs in the industrial sector,
accounting for around 40 percent of employees in industrial PEs. The remaining five PEs are in the
tourism, transport, and agriculture sectors. The second phase, extending to the end of 1997, would
continue to focus on the competitive sectors. The program is to privatize the bulk of PEs in the industrial
sector and a substantial portion of PEs in other sectors in the first two phases. Depending upon the
degree of success, privatization in these phases would cover up to 40 percent of the aggregate PE sector,
and over 50 percent of the non-utility PEs, in employment terms. The target for the third phase is to
bring the cumulative total of privatized PEs to about 70 percent of the aggregate PE sector.
39.    Current Status. To establish the institutional framework needed to implement the privatization
program, the Government issued a decree (Decree 8) in January 1995 which laid down the general
principles and guidelines for privatization. It established three Privatization Committees (PCs), one each
for industry (I), non-industrial sectors (NI), and the housing (H) sector. The PCs have the same
membership (to ensure a consistent approach), but are headed by three different Deputy Prime Ministers
(to provide independent leadership for each sector group). The decree assigned to the PCs overall
responsibility for designing, implementing, and monitoring the program and provided for the
establishment of a Technical Privatization Office (TPO) to support PCs.
40.   The Government has given priority to privatization in the industrial sector. As such, PC(I) is
relatively advanced in its work. It prepared a first phase action plan which called for the sale of 11
industrial PEs, accounting for 40 percent of employees in the industrial PEs. A first batch of six
industrial PEs has been offered for sale, and bids received are being evaluated. The tourism and
transport sub-committees of PC(NI) have prepared an analysis of the privatization potential in the two
sectors. A similar exercise would be carried out soon by the Ministry of Agriculture. In the meantime,
PC(NI) is actively collecting the relevant data on the PEs in its sectors and devising a sale strategy. Upon
completion of this process, it would prepare a privatization plan. The work of PC (H) is still at a very
preliminary stage.
41.    Despite the Government's commitment to the program, and progress made in the first phase, the
privatization program in Yemen faces a number of constraints: (a) the administrative capacity is very
limited, which underscores the need for privatization but limits the speed at which the Government can
implement it; (b) the financial data on PEs are poorly maintained and would require substantial basic
work to prepare the needed company dossiers; (c) neither the Government nor the private sector has much
technical capacity (for audit, valuation, dossier preparation, bid preparation, etc.) to prepare PEs for
privatization; (d) PEs are overstaffed, and the later phases of privatization would involve addressing
substantial labor redundancies; (e) an underdeveloped financial market and the absence of a stock
exchange would hamper privatization; and (f) the absorptive capacity of the private sector is limited. As
such, the Government's strategy of implementing the privatization program in phases, and to use each
phase to prepare for the next phase, is well conceived.



The Republic of Yemen                         - 11 -
42.    While longer term  solutions are worked out to relax the above-mentioned constraints, the
Government has taken, or will take by October 31, 1996, several actions to accelerate the pace of the
privatization program. These actions, included in the first phase of the program and being supported by
the ERC, are as follows:
(a)    The TPO has been established and its role and scope have been defined. In addition,
guidelines and procedures for privatization have been approved. These guidelines and
procedures cover, among other things, privatization techniques, valuation methods,
bidding systems, and regulatory issues.
(b)    The financial position of PEs is being ascertained as an essential step towards
privatization. Since completing such an exercise for all PEs would take some time
(especially in view of limited technical capacity), the Government has compiled a
preliminary list of PE candidates for privatization during 1995-97, in agreement with
IDA, and is collecting the necessary financial and personnel data of these PEs. The list
represents an ambitious target of privatizing about 40 percent of the aggregate PE sector
in employment terms. The success of the program would depend upon the development
of the Government's institutional capacity for privatization and on the market response.
(c)    The first batch of six PEs has been offered for sale.6' These would be sold, or if
unsuccessful, would be placed on a liquidation schedule by October 31, 1996. At least
an additional 10 PEs would be offered for sale by October 31, 1996.
(d)    Privatization of utilities and infrastructure services requires the revision of the existing
regulatory framework. Agreement on the terms of reference and schedule for a study,
"Public Utilities: Regulatory Framework and Institutional Reform," has been reached.
(e)    At present, the monitoring of PEs is fragmented among various ministries, and PEs are
subject to little financial discipline. To improve the monitoring of PE performance, the
Government has consolidated the monitoring in the Ministry of Finance. In addition, the
Government would prepare, by October 31, 1996, a time-bound action plan acceptable
to IDA, designed to phase out budgetary transfers to PEs and settle their arrears.
Labor Redundancy
43.    Addressing the issue of labor redundancy would be an important element in the success of the
Government's privatization program. In the first round of privatization, bidders for five out of six PEs,
offered to absorb all employees. For the sixth PE, no acceptable bid was received, and the PE would
be re-advertised for sale once before placing it on the liquidation list. The 10 PEs to be privatized during
1996 would also be offered for sale on the same terms as the first six. In the next two phases, larger PEs
with potentially significant excess labor would be privatized. The Government, with IDA assistance,
is in the process of preparing a compensation plan for redundant labor, which would include such options
as early retirement, voluntary departure with compensation, employee stock ownership, and buy-back
6/ For this purpose, offering for sale means: the Government has (a) carried out the valuation of a PE and prepared a sales
strategy; (b) prepared an information memorandum or a prospectus for the PE in question; and (c) solicited offers through public
advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers and media.



The Republic of Yemen                       - 12 -
contracts. It is estimated that the cost of redundancy packages may be $50-80 million for the full
program, depending upon the exact size of excess labor and the design of the compensation package.
Regulatory Reform
44.    Deficiencies in the overall legal framework constrain private sector activity, especially in
undertaking investments and in enforcing contracts. IDA, through an IDF grant, is currently reviewing
the country's overall legal framework. The ERC, therefore, focuses mainly on the measures relating to
improving the investment climate.
45.    The Investment Regime.   Prior to 1991, private sector investors were faced with major
difficulties in undertaking new projects. These difficulties were significantly reduced by the Investment
Law of 1991 which established the General Investment Authority (GIA) to facilitate project investment
and to administer investment incentives. Since 1991, project licensing, administered by the GIA, has
been required for all investors in manufacturing, services, agriculture, and fisheries, mainly as an
instrument for granting fiscal incentives. Depending on the activity and its location, licensed projects
may benefit from tax holidays, duty-free imports of capital goods, freedom from further import licensing
requirements for raw materials, and the GIA's facilitation services. Licensing by the GIA, however, has
not been a significant constraint on investment. During the last four years, the GIA is reported to have
rejected, for environmental reasons, only one application out of over 400. Recent changes in the rules
governing the GIA have further simplified procedures inside the GIA and delegated more powers to the
President of the GIA and to section managers. Thus, GIA licensing is, in effect, working as a
registration process which enables investors to claim incentives and helps them obtain other clearances
and licenses. The more important issue for new investors is the licenses and clearances required by line
ministries, governorates, and municipalities before an investment can be made. Although justified in
some cases (to ensure, for example, that municipal zoning and health standards are observed), the
multiple licensing system is time-consuming and discouraging for investors. This is a complex system
that requires a detailed study with a view to eliminating unnecessary licenses, simplifying procedures,
and facilitating issuance of necessary clearances. The Government also established a negative list of 18
specific consumer industries which are entitled to fewer investment incentives than others. This has had
the effect of protecting existing domestic producers and reducing competition in these industries. In view
of the changed economic conditions of the country and the increased need for private domestic and
foreign investment, the Government has become increasingly conscious of focusing GIA activities on
investment promotion and facilitation, especially for foreign investors.
46.    To improve the investment regime and set the stage for future reform, the following actions have
been taken:
(a)    The negative list has been abolished and will be replaced with a new smaller list,
acceptable to IDA, of restricted activities directly related to security, health, religion, and
environmental protection.
(b)    The terms of reference for a detailed study of the investment regime have been agreed,
covering the licensing system, investment incentives, and the structure and functions of
the GIA. The study is to be completed, agreements on its recommendation reached, and
implementation initiated by second tranche release.



The Republic of Yemen                               - 13 -
Public Expenditure Review
47.     As a complement to the stabilization program, and to prepare for future fiscal reforms, it has been
agreed with the Government that IDA would complete a public expenditure review (PER) by mid-1996.
The review would examine the proper role of government in Yemen, expenditure composition, and
efficiency. The focus would be on central government budgetary expenditures (both capital and current
accounts), including transfer payments and lending to local authorities and public enterprises. The PER
would cover: employment and wage issues; subsidies; financial relations with public enterprises,
including utilities; macroeconomic aspects of the public investment program; sectoral expenditure policies;
the adequacy of social expenditures; and public expenditure planning and management. The PER would
also identify issues relating to civil service reform which, being a large task by itself, would require
separate follow-up work. The recommendations of the PER would be discussed between the Government
and IDA and agreement reached on a medium-term framework and on 1997 expenditure plans by October
31, 1996.
D. Social Protection During Adjustment
48.     Acceleration of inflation in recent years has reduced real incomes, especially of wage earners.
Stabilization and structural reform, while laying down the basis for low inflation and sustained growth,
could have a temporary negative effect on employment and incomes of vulnerable groups. Minimizing
these effects is essential for the success of the reform program and calls for establishing an effective
social safety net. Subsidies, especially the subsidy on wheat and wheat flour, are being phased out over
a 3-5 year period to cushion the impact on low income consumers. While a larger social safety net is
prepared and implemented over the medium term,' the Government has adopted more limited measures
that could be implemented immediately. These include: (a) implementing a public works project; and
(b) protecting expenditures, on health and education.
Public Works Project
49.     A public works project, to be supported by IDA under a separate operation, is currently being
prepared. The main purpose of the project is to provide income-producing employment to unskilled
labor, while upgrading or rehabilitating the infrastructure and facilities for social services. The works
to be financed by the project would be relatively small and labor-intensive. The project is planned to be
in place by mid-1996. This project would be a modest employment generation vehicle which the
Government feels is important for enhancing the political acceptability of adjustment measures." The
"   For the details of the medium-term social protection strategy and projected IDA support, see the Yemen CAS,
January 19, 1996.
8/ Assuming a 30-40 percent labor content of sub-projects and a daily wage rate of three dollars, about 5,000 person-months of
direct employment per million dollars could be created. A project of $28 million (with IDA share of $25 million) should, thus, be
able to generate over 125,000 person-months of employment. Since the project would increase demand for materials as well, it
would also create indirect employment. (continued from the previous page) The number of jobs initially created would depend upon
several factors, including the availability of sub-projects, the type of activity, and implementation capacity in the private sector. It
is expected that the sub-project portfolio and implementation capacity would be built up over time with the assistance of the
proposed project management unit. Although the limited number of jobs created (due to practical constraints) would not make a
significant difference in the estimated unemployment level of about three million, the project is important for three main reasons.
First, it would create the maximum possible temporary direct and indirect jobs under the Yemeni conditions and should lessen any
negative effects of adjustment, especially in the sensitive urban areas. Second, it would enhance political acceptability of the reform
package since it would demonstrate that the Government is taking positive steps to help the vulnerable groups. Third, it would
rehabilitate the infrastructure in relatively poor conmmunities.



The Republic of Yemen                     - 14 -
choice of a labor-intensive public works project as an initial social protection measure reflects to a large
extent the limits that institutional weaknesses impose on setting up an administrative framework with
complex criteria for targeted interventions.
Protecting Social Expenditures
50.   The low income groups' use of certain basic services, namely, primary health and primary and
secondary education, is relatively high. These services are also essential for increasing the skills and
earning capacity of the poor. Accordingly, during the adjustment period, the Government plans to at
least maintain expenditures on education and health as a percentage of GDP, focus intrasectoral
allocations on primary health and education and secondary education, and adopt measures for increasing
their efficiency.
IV. MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
51.   The macroeconomic projections in Table 1 are based on two key assumptions: (a) successful
implementation of a stabilization and structural reform program supported by an IMF SBA, the ERC, and
increased bilateral donor financing, possibly through a Consultative Group (CG); and (b) substantial debt
relief through a combination of write-offs and rescheduling on Naples terms. It is assumed that all
bilateral debt would be eligible for restructuring. Specifically, for the first three years (1996-98), all the
arrears and debt service falling due would be restructured annually on Naples terms; i.e., two-thirds
would be forgiven and one-third would be rescheduled at the market rate of interest. At the end of three
years (1999), provided Yemen continues to implement the reform program, a stock reduction would be
carried out whereby two-thirds of all the eligible stock of debt will be forgiven and the remaining one-
third would be rescheduled at the market rate of interest.
52.   While the Government's reform program is expected to elicit a significant supply response, albeit
with some lag, Yemen's medium-term macroeconomic prospects are closely tied to the prospects of its
oil sector, which accounts for 80 percent of merchandise exports and 60 percent of the non-services
GDP. With the coming on stream of new fields, crude oil output is expected to peak at about 365,000
barrels a day in 1997, or at almost double the output of 1992. Oil production is expected to decline
moderately thereafter because of declining yields from the older fields. Yemen has large reserves of
natural gas (13 trillion cubic feet). Discussions are under way with oil companies to establish facilities
for the export of 5-6 million tons of LNG. There are also some prospects for the export of LPG. Both
of these would require large investments. Neither these investments, nor the resulting output and exports,
are reflected in the medium-term projections since it is unlikely that they would be implemented within
this time frame.



The Republic of Yemen                               - 15 -
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators and Projections
1992      1993   1994    1995   1996       1997    1998     1999   2000
GDP Growth                        4.2       5.9    0.0      3.6    2.5       5.1      4.3     4.3    4.8
Inflation (% CPI)                50.7      62.4   71.8    48.0   29.0       20.0    11.0       8.0    7.0
Per Capita Consumption Gmwth (%)    -3.7    3.3  -22.4      0.1    5.2       2.2      -.9     0.3    3.2
Exports of goods (US$ mil)      1095       1167   1820    2027   1934       2110    2191     2237   2300
Imports of goods (US$ mil)       1935      2138   1654    1999   2309       2562    2690     2825   2977
Current Account Balance/GDP *   -24.6     -30.9    3.6      1.1   -2.5      -2.5    -1.9    -2.4   -2.9
Budget Deficit/GDP (cash basis)  -16.9    -16.6  -16.7    -6.6   -3.5       -3.0    -2.5    -2.5   -2.5
Budget Deficit/GDP  (comnitment  -18.8    -17.8  -17.5    -8.0   -6.1       -3.0    -2.5    -2.5   -2.5
basis)
Revenues                21.9       20.4   14.2    21.7   30.9      30.6    31.3    31.8   31.0
Expenditures            40.7       38.2   31.7    29.7   37.0      33.6    33.8    34.3   33.5
DOD/GDP                         184.7     202.8  196.0   185.5  115.5    115.5   118.9   120.8  121.7
Debt Service/Exports and Services *   50.3  47.6   30.8    27.6    6.7       4.4     4.2      5.6    7.3
After debt relief and restructuring on Naples terms.
53.     Overall, GDP is projected
to grow  by about 2.5 percent in            Table 2: Financing Requirements  (Base Case)
1996, accelerating  to close to 5                                                1996    1997   1998
percent per annum by the end of
the  decade, with  rapid  non-oil                   Current Account Deficit'       128      132    105
growth, in response to the reform                   Amortization'                   84       26     21
program, offsetting the decline in                  Change in Reserves              62      -34      81
oil sector output. Non-oil exports
are  projected  to  grow   by  10           Total Net Financing Requirements    274         124    206
percent per annum  in real terms            Regular Sources                        -47    -150    -55
during 1996-2000 from a very low                o/w Grants                          37       37      37
base.9'   Initially, in  1996  and                  LT Loans                       112      115    122
1997, imports  are  projected  to                   Net other Capital 2           -196    -302   -214
grow  rapidly, recovering from  a           Exceptional Financing                  321      274    262
sharp  decline  in  recent years.               o/w IDA                             80         -      -
Thereafter, import growth would                     IMF (net)                      147         -      -
slow   down.       Overall  import                  Financing Gap                   94      274    262
elasticity with respect to GDP is          'After debt relief and restructuring on Naples terms.
projected to be about one over the         2'ncludes foreign oil companies' capital repatriation and expatriate
period   1995-2000.        Workers'         Yemenis' return capital.
remittances are projected to be
around $1.1 billion during the
same period. As oil production
peaks, and oil exports decline, the
9' The value of non-oil exports in 1995 was about $150 million.



The Republic of Yemen                       - 16 -
current account deficit would increase to about 2.4 percent in 1999. It would decline thereafter as the
effects of the reform program take hold.
54.    External Capital and Debt. As indicated in Table 2, Yemen's financing requirements mainly
arise from an initially widening current account deficit and oil company repatriation of past investments.
Yemen's total financing requirements, even with the significant debt relief and rescheduling along the
lines discussed above, would be sizable. The projections assume that over 1996-98 Yemen has access
to regular financing of around $150 million per annum of IDA credits, bilateral long-term loans, and
grant disbursements. This creates the need for exceptional financing of around $285 million per annum
over the next three years (1996-98). As indicated in Table 2, for the first year of the program (1996),
about $227 million would be available from the IMF and the ERC. This would leave a financing gap
of around $94 million for which additional exceptional financing, including co-financing for the ERC,
would be needed. The projected, tentative financing gaps for 1997-98 suggest the continued need for
reforms supported by untied financing.
55.    Following debt restructuring, concessional new financing and export growth would restore
Yemen's external debt to sustainable levels. The debt/GDP ratio and debt service ratios are projected
to fall from around 185 percent and 28 percent of GDP prior to restructuring to about 122 percent and
7.3 percent, respectively, after 1999 when the stock reduction is also phased in.
V. BANK STRATEGY AND THE PROPOSED ERC
A. Bank Strategy and Country Relations''
56.    Over the past two and a half decades, IDA  has Table 3: Sectoral Distribution of IDA Credits
supported the development of YAR and PDRY and of the                     (1971-1995)
unified ROY with 101 credits (as of end-FY95).
Commitments, net of cancellations, total nearly $1. 1 billion (for             $millions        %
sectoral distribution, see Table 3).  IDA's major efforts  Agriculture           337.0        31.0
centered on supporting agricultural, human resource, and
infrastructural development. In the early days, IDA (together  Human Resources   257.0        23.6
with other donors) also helped set up the basic economic  Transport              159.8         14.7
institutions of a modern state, including the Central Planning  Water Supply     183.8         16.9
Organization in YAR which has since become the Ministry of
Planning and Development (MOPD), and several authorities  Power                   116.7        10.7
responsible for infrastructural services.                 Industry                29.3         2.7
57.    The  Government's  implementation  capacity  has  Technical Assistance      4.7         0.4
suffered, especially during the last five years which were                      1,088.4       100.0
characterized by severe political and economic shocks and a
deteriorating macroeconomic situation.  IDA  is currently
intensely involved in helping the Government ease
10' For more details, including on IFC and MIGA activities in Yemen, please refer to the CAS.



The Republic of Yemen                    - 17 -
implementation bottlenecks. A CPPR mission in June 1995 reached agreement on actions to improve
portfolio implementation. These actions, spelled out in a Memorandum of Understanding between the
Govemment and IDA, are currently being implemented.
58.   The main objectives of IDA's country assistance strategy in Yemen are to sup (discussed by the
Board on February 20, 1996) port: (a) economic stabilization, structural reforms, and social protection;
(b) improvement of portfolio implementation and the sustainability of past and future investments; and
(c) the promotion of sustainable development, with a focus on the management of water, population
growth, and human resource development.
59.   The ERC will be IDA's first quick disbursing balance of payments credit to Yemen. IDA has
already provided considerable advice to the Government on policy measures to improve the incentives
framework, as well as the institutional and regulatory environment for private sector development,
including privatization. Both stabilization and structural adjustment could initially have a negative impact
in terms of worker dislocation, increased unemployment, and a real income drop for vulnerable groups.
The ERC (and other donor) resources would help reduce this impact, thus facilitating the acceptability
and implementation of the Government's reform program. If the current phase of the program is
successfully implemented, IDA plans to continue supporting the reform program under one or more
subsequent adjustment operation(s).
60.   Beyond the immediate social protection measures discussed in Section III D above, addressing
poverty in Yemen is a long-term commitment requiring: (a) sustained economic growth; (b) proper factor
prices; (c) the development of altemative mechanisms to government intervention in assisting the poor;
and (d) rationalization of govermment subsidies to decrease leakages of assistance to the non-poor while
releasing resources for developmental expenditures. Issues (a) and (b) are being addressed under
stabilization and structural refomis. The latter issues are being examined by a Poverty Assessment study.
A proposed Social Action Project would help introduce a mechanism for the delivery of social services
at the community level by private providers such as NGOs, while a proposed Southern Governorates
Poverty Alleviation Project would focus on rural poverty in the south.
61.   Yemen faces critical long term issues: water scarcity, high population growth, and inadequate
health and education services, especially for women. Yemen is one of the most water-deprived countries
in the world. Addressing this issue requires a well-coordinated effort between the Government and
donors. IDA is playing a central role in this effort. It is supporting the Government in: developing a
comprehensive water strategy and an action plan for its implementation; setting up a National Water
Management Authority; developing a medium-term investment program for the sector and mobilizing and
coordinating donor support through a special donors meeting for water; addressing supply and water
demand management in urban areas; and targeting the rural areas through specific operations.
62.   Yemen's rate of population growth (at over 3.5 percent) is exceptionally high. Beyond rapid
economic growth and reduction in poverty, addressing this population issue will be a multi-disciplinary
task requiring pro-active intervention in a wide range of areas, including increasing access to
contraceptives, promoting female education, and expanding health care services. IDA continues to
encourage the Government to address the population issues more pro-actively, despite the constraints in
this area that arise from the traditional values of Yemeni society.



The Republic of Yemen                    - 18 -
B. The Proposed Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
63.   The reform measures to be supported by the ERC and their implementation schedule are presented
in the matrix attached to the Government's Letter of Economic Policy (LEP) Annex 1. The first phase
of the reform program, to be supported by the proposed ERC, is being implemented and will continue
to be implemented during 1996. Most of the actions have been taken prior to Board presentation. Those
actions that require further preparatory work, or that may otherwise overburden the Government, are
scheduled for later implementation and constitute the second tranche release conditions.
64.   Macroeconomic Adjustment. A precondition for IDA support of the Government's structural
reform program is the adoption and successful implementation of the stabilization program agreed to
under the Fund SBA, and the accompanying macroeconomic framework. Such a framework, which is
outlined in the Government's LEP, includes: the adjustment paths of the fiscal and external accounts; the
adjustment of key government prices (electricity, water, petroleum derivatives, and wheat); exchange rate
policy; interest rate policies; and an external financing program and strategy. The Government's
adherence to that program and satisfactory performance will constitute a second tranche release
condition.
65.   Structural Reform.  The ERC-supported reforms were chosen with a view to providing
economic benefits (see below), and to placing relatively few demands on the Government's limited
implementation capacity. During the process of privatization, the Government would need to strengthen
its management capacity for implementing privatization. The Government is already taking steps towards
that end. Furthermore, IDA has provided staff assistance in the privatization as well as the trade policy
area. However, the Government would need significant further technical assistance to support its
privatization program, especially when privatizing larger PEs, and in formulating plans to approach
donors for providing such assistance. Overall, while in the short term the program would require the
Government to take certain administrative and legal actions, these would be one-time actions which would
have the effect of reducing the Government's administrative burden.
66.   The following outlines the measures (a) that preceded Board presentation and (b) those agreed
for the release of the second tranche. The full set of actions is detailed in the policy matrix attached to
the Government's LEP.
67.   The following pre-Board actions have been taken:
Trade Policy Reform
*     Existing import bans (except for coffee and fresh fruits and vegetables that are produced
locally, and goods banned for national security and religious reasons) and quantitative
restrictions have been eliminated and replaced by tariffs within the agreed four bands.
*     The discretion allowed to government agencies to impose bans on individual exports, or
to seek to license or regulate exports, except for national security or cultural reasons, has
been eliminated.



Tfhe Republic of Yemen                   - 19 -
*     Product-specific import licensing requirements, except for reasons of national security,
public health, religion, or environmental protection, in accordance with the standards
adopted by Yemeni authorities, have been eliminated.
*     A new tariff structure with four bands (30 percent, 15 percent, 10 percent, and 5 percent)
has been implemented. An exceptional rate of 70 percent will apply only to cigarettes
and tobacco imports.
*     Duty exemptions for imports by public enterprises and the Government have been
abolished.  This excludes:  duty exemptions granted under existing contracts,
international agreements, and those for wheat, wheat flour, and crude oil destined for re-
export.
*     All remaining fees and surcharges on imports have been abolished.
*     The excise tax rates for similar imported and domestic products have been harmonized.
Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform
3     Regulations, guidelines, and procedures for privatization have been approved; a TPO to
support the Privatization Committees has been established; and the role and scope of
work of the TPO have been defined.
*     The 1995-97 privatization program targets of PEs have been confirmed.
3     Six PEs have been offered for sale.
e     The schedule and the terms of reference for the study, "Public Utilities: Regulatory
Framework and Institutional Reform," have been agreed.
*     Financial monitoring of the PE sector has been consolidated in the Ministry of Finance.
Regulatorv Reform
*     The product-based 'negative' list which inhibits competition, has been abolished and
would be replaced with a new, short list of restricted activities directly related to security,
health, religion, and environmental protection.
*     The terms of reference and schedule for a study to review the multiple licensing system,
investment incentives, and the restructuring of GIA have been agreed between IDA and
the GIA.
Social Protection
*     Protection of 1996 budgetary expenditures for health and education as a percentage of
GDP has been confirmed.



The Republic of Yemen                    - 20 -
68.   Second tranche actions are as follows:
Macroeconomic Framework
*     Continued maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
Trade Policy Reform
*     Formulate an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for improving customs procedures.
Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform
*     Place on a liquidation schedule, agreed with IDA, any PEs that remain unsold out of the
first batch of six PEs.
*     Offer at least ten additional PEs for sale.
*     Develop a time-bound action plan, acceptable to IDA, for phasing out transfers to PEs
and settling their arrears.
Regulatory Reform
*     Complete the review of the multiple licensing system, investment incentives, and GIA
restructuring, discuss recommendations with IDA, and begin implementation of agreed
recommendations.
Public Expenditures
*     Based on the planned Public Expenditure Review by IDA, discuss and agree on a
medium-term framework and expenditure plans for 1997.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
69.   The ERC will help the authorities elaborate and implement structural reforms needed for the
initiation of economic recovery and sustaining it over time. Given Yemen's relatively large stock of
external debt and its dependence on imported inputs, sustaining economic growth requires the relaxation
of the external resource constraint. The proposed SBA and the ERC are necessary for facilitating the
restructuring of Yemen's external debt, especially debt owed to Paris Club members. The ERC will also
contribute to, and help mobilize, external financial resources that are required to underpin the recovery.
In concert with macroeconomic stabilization, the ERC will help the private sector in expanding its role
and contributing a larger share in the growth and the development of the Yemeni economy over the
medium term.
D. The Financing Package
70.   Credit Amount and Borrower. The proposed credit of SDR53,700,000 ($80 million equivalent)
will be made to the Republic of Yemen through the Ministry of Finance, which would imnmediately sell



The Republic of Yemen                    - 21 -
the foreign exchange to the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY) at the current exchange rate. The credit will
be on IDA terms with 40 years maturity and 10 years grace period. The closing date will be December
31, 1997.
71.   The credit will provide quick-disbursing balance of payments support to the Government and
would be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of SDR33,500,000 (US$50 million equivalent) will
be available for disbursement upon credit effectiveness. The remaining SDR20,200,000 (US$30 million
equivalent) would be available for disbursement, on completion of the agreed actions, as a second tranche
October 31, 1996. The proceeds of the credit would be used to achieve credit objectives and would not
be used to finance goods ineligible under IDA policy (that is, goods included in IDA's standard negative
list, goods from ineligible countries, including domestic sources, and goods financed by other donors).
The Bank will have the right to require an audit of the use of proceeds of the credit to ensure compliance
with these requirements.
E. Project Management
72.   The Government has appointed a senior official to coordinate and monitor the implementation of
the various components of the ERC. Concerned ministries and agencies have also designated officials
who would coordinate respective reform measures.
F. Benefits and Risks
73.   Benefits. The benefits of the Government's economic reform program to be supported by the
proposed ERC would be significant. The large development agenda facing Yemen would require reform
implementation over a number of years, possibly supported by a series of adjustment operations. The
ERC is designed to lay down the basis for the resumption of economic growth and for sustaining it over
the longer term. First, the stabilization program on which the ERC is predicated would reduce fiscal and
external payments imbalances, and ease inflationary pressures. It would also be accompanied by the
restructuring of Yemen's external debt which would restore the country's creditworthiness. This would,
in turn, restore the confidence of the private sector in the country's economic policy. Second, the
structural reform measures would provide an appropriate economic environment for increased investment,
efficiency, growth, and employment. Trade liberalization would decrease protection, increase competition
and efficiency, facilitate access to imported inputs and technology, simplify import valuation, and
encourage exports. The privatization program would increase productive efficiency, encourage private
sector investment, and reduce the drain on the budget. The ongoing price liberalization would attract
more investment in the concerned industries and utilities, rationalize demand, and reduce budgetary
transfers. Regulatory reforms would reduce unnecessary business costs, help dismantle the monopolistic
structure in some industries, and encourage increased domestic and foreign investment. Increased
investment and improved resource allocation would also help ameliorate unemployment and poverty. The
accompanying social protection measures would reduce the possible negative effects of the reform
program and would protect public expenditures on social and skill-upgrading services.
74.   Risks. The reform program is subject to several, relatively serious risks, arising partly from
country conditions and partly from the inherent effect of adjustment measures. First, the country has a
limited capacity to formulate, implement, and monitor policy reforms. Second, several measures, such
as reduction in subsidies, labor redundancies due to privatization, and increased domestic and import
competition, may initially affect the employment and the real incomes of the vulnerable and the poor.



The Republic of Yemen                      - 22 -
The reforms would also reduce the rents of the privileged groups. Strong political reactions and/or
resistance from these groups could disrupt or stall the reforms. Third, failure to substantially restructure
the country's debt would adversely affect critically-needed capital inflows and, thus, imports, investment,
and growth.
75.   The Government, with IDA support, is minimizing these risks through several means. First, the
ERC team has provided significant technical assistance to support the reforms, especially in the areas of
trade and privatization. An IDF grant and a PHRD grant have been secured for financing further
technical assistance during the implementation of the ERC program. The Government plans to approach
donors for longer term technical assistance to sustain continued reforms, and has already approached IDA
for a technical assistance credit. Furthermore, the reform package has been designed in such a way that
it will have a benign effect on administrative capacity (eliminating or minimizing demands on it), and
facilitate private sector business operations. Second, the reforms aim at improving the environment for
increased private sector investment. Together with the expected increase in foreign resource inflow, this
should have a positive impact on growth and employment. However, since an investment increase usually
lags during the initial phase of adjustment, two additional steps are being taken to mitigate the negative
effect on employment. A parallel Public Works Project is being processed to finance relatively labor-
intensive, community-based sub-projects. This project should provide a limited but critical income
injection to the relatively poor areas. The privatization program would include a mechanism for
addressing the labor redundancy issue. In order to keep the negative social impact of the program to a
tolerable level, subsidies would be phased out over a three to five year period. Nonetheless, fiscal
adjustment required that increases in the prices of wheat and wheat flour, petroleum products, electricity
and water, take place almost simultaneously. This would have an immediate impact on real incomes and
could cause a strong social reaction.  Third, the program would facilitate the restructuring of the
country's external debt. The SBA would help the country approach the Paris Club for substantial debt
relief and regularization. This is expected to be followed by relief on similar or better terms for non-
Paris-Club (especially the substantial Russian) debt. These agreements would, in turn, encourage further
capital inflows as well as trade credits. Close coordination between the IMF and IDA is being maintained
on this issue.
76.   Overall, although the reform program would obviously remain subject to risks, the design of the
program and other accompanying measures should significantly reduce these risks.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
77.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
March 14, 1996
Washington, D.C.



Annex 1
LETTER OF ECONOMIC POLICY
March 7, 1996
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Dear Mr. President:
1.      We wish to confirm the intention of the Republic of Yemen to carry out a
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program. We also wish to confirm
our intention to seek International Development Association (IDA) assistance in the
form of a two tranche Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) of US$80 million equivalent
in support of policy actions the Government has taken, and will take during 1996.
These actions are specified in the Matrix of Policy Reforms attached to this letter.
The Credit would support the initial phase of structural reforms and would
complement the stabilization policies which are being undertaken with the support of
a Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
A. OVERVIEW
2.      The past several years have been particularly difficult for Yemen.
Responding to the Yemeni people's wishes, the former People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen (PDRY) and Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) were unified in May 1990 into the
present Republic of Yemen (ROY). This entailed political adjustments, merger of two
different structures and styles of administrations, and the establishment of
infrastructure and communications links.  Inevitably, there were problems of
adjustment at various levels and additional financial costs. The challenges of political
unification were compounded, less than three months later, by the Gulf war. Most
of our foreign aid was cut off, and a million Yemeni expatriates returned from the Gulf
countries, which, in turn, meant a sharp drop in foreign exchange earnings, increased
unemployment, and a higher burden on our infrastructure and social services. In
addition, the collapse of the former Soviet Union (FSU) shut off an important source
of foreign aid and left Yemen saddled with a large external debt. Finally, the military
conflict of May-July 1994 took a heavy toll in human, financial, and economic terms,
and its adverse effects are continuing.  Under these circumstances, economic
management became difficult, and the economic situation deteriorated rapidly.
3.      The budget deficit averaged over 1 6 percent of GDP during 1992-1 994. In
view of reduced foreign inflows after the Gulf crisis, and continued low domestic
savings, the Government had to resort to borrowing from the Central Bank to finance



- 2 -
4.      The country's balance of payments position also remained precarious during
1992-93. The current account deficit averaged 27 percent of GDP during 1 992-93.
In 1994 and 1995, the current account registered a surplus of 3.6 percent and 1.1
percent of GDP respectively, due to substantial increases in oil exports in those years.
These surpluses, however, were not sufficient to meet the debt obligations falling due
and contractual payments to oil companies.
5.      Yemen carries a large external debt. The estimated debt of approximately
US$8.7 billion was more than twice Yemen's GDP in 1994, with a substantial share
owed to the Russian Federation (RF). Our policy has been to remain current on
repayments to multilateral and bilateral creditors, and on suppliers' credit. However,
given the recent scarcity of foreign exchange resources, Yemen has fallen into arrears
to the RF and to Middle Eastern and bilateral creditors, which is seriously affecting our
country's creditworthiness.
6.      The Government is highly concerned about the current economic situation
and the continued drop in the standard of living of the Yemeni people. It is clear that
the country needs to take steps to achieve at least a moderate growth rate.
Accordingly, the Government began implementing, in early 1995, a comprehensive
program of economic reform comprising three main elements: (a) macroeconomic
stabilization; (b) structural reform; and (c) social protection measures during
adjustment. The Government has sought the support of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), IDA, and other donors, in implementing its reform program.
B. THE STABILIZATION PROGRAM
7.      The Government's immediate economic objective is to stabilize the economy
by addressing forcefully the main cause of macroeconomic imbalances, namely, large
fiscal deficits and resultant monetary expansion. As a first step toward achieving this
objective, and after a difficult parliamentary debate, the Government adopted bold
measures in early 1 995 aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit, on a cash basis, to around
7 percent of GDP. These measures included adjustment of the official and customs
exchange rates from YR12/$ and YR18/$, respectively, to YR50/$. They also
included revenue measures, such as an increase in the price of cement (before it was
fully liberalized), petroleum products, and electricity, as well as expenditure restraints.
8.      The Government recognizes that there is a need to reduce the budget deficit
further in 1 996. Accordingly, it has adopted the following measures as part of the
1 996 budget, starting January 1, 1 996:



- 3 -
(a)     The main budgetary measures aimed at reducing the cash fiscal deficit to
3.5 percent of GDP in 1996 include:
-    Reduction of subsidies by five percentage points of GDP, including
substantial increases in petroleum product prices and electricity tariffs.
Holding wage bill below the projected inflation rate.
Freezing current transfers to public enterprises as a share of GDP (capital
transfers would be increased largely to continue implementation of projects
in the electricity, water, and highway sectors).
Net revenue increase from tariff reform.
Improvement in public revenue collection.
(b)     A market-based exchange rate regime.
(c)     A five percentage point increase in the minimum benchmark savings and
deposit interest rates. The Government has initiated treasury bill auctions in
December 1 996 as a non-inflationary means of financing the budget deficit.
C. STRUCTURAL REFORMS
9.      Our Government's long-term vision is to achieve sustained growth of at least
one to two percent per capita income per annum, and a pattern of growth that would
reduce inequities and poverty. Thus, while the stabilization measures discussed above
take effect and help restore confidence in the economy, the Government plans to lay
down a sound basis for long-term growth. Our overall strategy to achieve these
objectives is to expand the private sector role in the economy and to encourage
exports. To implement this strategy, the Government would focus its efforts on
implementing policy reforms, removing restrictive regulations, providing a supportive
business environment, improving public administration, and increasing the efficiency
of essential public services. We are convinced that reducing the role of the public
sector in the economy and encouraging greater private sector (both domestic and
foreign) investment in Yemen are essential for achieving our economic objectives.
10.     The following sections describe Yemen's medium-term objectives in priority
areas of trade policy, privatization, and the regulatory framework, and discuss the
steps that the Government has taken, or will take in 1996, in these areas. The
Government is seeking IDA's support for these steps.



-4 -
Trade Policy Reform
11.     The Government's medium-term objective is to substantially expand non-oil
exports. Rapid trade and regulatory reforms in many of Yemen's competitors increase
the urgency of reforming the current system and reducing the anti-export bias. The
Government, therefore, plans to liberalize the trade policy regime by removing all
quantitative restrictions, simplifying the tariff structure and lowering tariffs (in view
of the continuing adjustment in the exchange rate), and providing necessary support
to exports (such as adequate physical infrastructure, transport, storage,
intermediation, and port services). Over the medium-term, the Government also plans
to  seek accession to the World Trade Organization, and to review customs
administration with a view toward adopting simplification and modernization
measures.
1 2.    The Government has already taken, or will take, a number of reform steps
during 1996, as discussed below:
Non-tariff Policies
(a)   Quantitative Import Restrictions. The Government has removed all bans and
quantitative restrictions on imports and replaced them with tariffs within the
new tariff bands (discussed below), except for some agricultural products
produced locally, and for goods where bans are justified by national security
or religious considerations.
(b)   Export Restrictions.  The current foreign trade law abolished  export
licensing, but reserved for the Minister of Supply and Trade the discretion
to impose export bans if needed. To remove any uncertainty for investors
in export development, the Government has eliminated the discretion of
imposing export bans, or seeking to license or regulate exports, except to
safeguard Yemen's national security and cultural heritage.
(c)  Import Licensing. The Government has abolished the system of product-
based import licensing, with the exception of specified categories of goods
that remain subject to prior approval for reasons of security, health,
environmental protection, and religion. The relevant standards and criteria
that apply to these goods will be determined by the competent Yemeni
authorities and will be consistent with international norms.



-5-
Tariff Reform
(d)   A Simplified Tariff Structure. Over the medium term, in order to reduce
domestic protection and encourage investment in potential export activities,
the Government plans to lower the average import-weighted tariff to 10
percent or less. To move towards that goal, and to at least partially offset
,the recent and future increases in effective tariffs on account of the
adjustment in the exchange rate used for customs valuation, the
Government has rationalized and simplified the tariff structure. The number
of tariff bands has been reduced to four. A maximum rate of 30 percent,
15 percent, 10 percent, and five percent have been adopted.  An
exceptional rate of 70 percent will, however, apply to only tobacco
products. The new tariff structure is expected to yield an import-weighted
average tariff burden of about 1 3 percent. Depending upon the effect of
reforms on the import volume, tariff revenue is expected to increase from
a projected YR16 billion in 1995 to YR22 billion in 1996.
(e)   Exemptions. The Government's medium-term objective is to eliminate all
duty exemptions, except those for: exporters under the duty drawback and
temporary admission systems; imports by foreign oil companies where duty
free importation has been granted by existing production-sharing
agreements; and agreements with donors and other Governments. In the
meantime, the Government has stopped granting import duty exemptions
to  public  enterprises,  government  bodies,  and  government
ministries/departments, except for the import of our staple food, wheat and
wheat flour, and for the import of crude oil intended for re-export.
(f)   Fees and Surcharges. The Government has abolished all remaining fees and
surcharges, including the 1 00 percent duty surcharge which was applicable
to goods imported without a license.
Other Trade Taxes
(g)   Excise Taxes on Imports. At present, imported goods that compete with
domestic products are subject to double the excise duty (consumption tax)
applicable to domestic products. To remove the protective effect of this
excise duty, the Government has harmonized the excise tax rates on imports
and domestic products.
13.     Customs Administration and Procedures. To allow exporters access to
intermediate inputs and technology at world prices, we plan to substantially improve
the functioning of duty drawback and temporary admission systems. This will be



- 6 -
pursued in conjunction with efforts to modernize the customs department through
automation and procedural reform.  In the meantime, we will review customs
procedures and prepare, by October 31, 1 996, an action plan, acceptable to IDA,
aimed at improving and simplifying the procedures.
14.     Pre-shioment Insoection.  One of the objectives of trade reform is to
facilitate customs clearance as well as to ensure effective duty collection. The
Government is, therefore, studying the feasibility of using pre-shipment inspection
(PSI) by an established international firm so that a reliable valuation of imports is
available and customs clearance can be expedited. If introduced, PSI will be used for
a transitional period until the full reform of the customs administration and procedures
can be implemented.
Privatization and Public Sector Enterprise Reform
1 5.    During the last few years, the Government has become convinced that
privatization of public enterprises (PEs) has to be an important element of our medium-
term economic strategy. After serious deliberation, the Government decided to
withdraw completely, over the medium term, from competitive activities and to seek
private sector participation in utilities and other infrastructure services. By transferring
activities to the private sector that it can perform better than the Government, the
country should benefit in several ways: increasing economic efficiency; eliminating
budgetary transfers to PEs (currently running at 2 percent of GDP); widening the
ownership base; and enhancing access to foreign markets, technology, and capital.
The intention is to privatize (or liquidate) by the year 2000 a group of over 100 PEs
and entities in various sectors (including transportation, tourism, agriculture, industry,
oil and gas, the financial sector, and the energy sector) accounting for around 70
percent of the PE sector in employment terms, as well as its share in mixed
enterprises. The Government also plans to take steps to improve the performance
monitoring of PEs and public corporations, phase out budgetary outlays for them, and
eliminate cross arrears.
16.     In pursuit of the above objectives, the Government issued Decree 8 (January
1 995) which laid down the general principles and guidelines for privatization. The
Decree also established three Privatization Committees for the industrial, non-
industrial, and housing sectors, each headed by a Deputy Prime Minister. The
Committees would be supported by a Technical Privatization Office (TPO) that has
already been established.  Other supportive expertise will be used as needed,
especially to handle difficult, sensitive, and more complex divestitures. Operating
procedures and guidelines for privatization have been approved by the Cabinet. In
addition, the Government has requested IDA to provide a technical assistance credit



- 7 -
to help implement, among other reform components, the Government's medium-term
privatization program.
17.     To ensure transparency, accountability, and optimal benefit to the country,
the Government has adopted the following main guidelines in the privatization
process: open competition; a transparent bidding process open to local and foreign
investors; prior establishment of regulatory frameworks for utilities; no special voting
rights where the Government retains a minority shareholding; a moratorium on new
public investments and physical rehabilitation in PEs, except for regular maintenance
and for financial, legal, and operational restructuring; no sale of PEs or entities to
other public sector institutions; no new PEs in the competitive sectors; and prior
environmental audits of PEs with potential environmental problems.
1 8.    Our Government has prepared and will make public a list of PEs to be
privatizated during 1 995-97. These cover practically all sectors, and jointly represent
more than 20% of the aggregate size of all enterprises (based on the number of
employees). Specific privatization timetables for these enterprises are being prepared.
Under normal circumstances, we expect the privatization of an enterprise to be
completed within nine months of bringing it to the point of sale.
19.     The first batch of six enterprises in the industrial sector has been offered for
sale, and bids received for five of them have been evaluated. No acceptable bid was
received for the sixth PE, and we plan to offer it again for sale. By October 31, any
PE out of this batch of six remaining unsold will be placed on a liquidation schedule.
By that date also, the Government will offer for sale at least another 10 enterprises,
that is, the Government will have (a) carried out the valuation of a PE and prepared
a sales strategy; (b) prepared an information memorandum or a prospectus for the PE
in question; and (c) solicited offers through public advertisement(s) in appropriate
newspapers and media.
20.     The Government will monitor the progress of privatization closely and will
prepare a quarterly progress report, including lessons learned from the privatization
process, reasons for any delays or changes in the timetable, and future steps.
21.     As part of the privatization program, the Government plans to liquidate
entities that are insolvent, or in receivership, or for which no response to a tender
request is received. To facilitate liquidation and to avoid keeping insolvent entities on
the privatization list indefinitely, the Government has adopted criteria for deciding
when a PE becomes a candidate for liquidation. Using these criteria, the Government
will place on the liquidation list entities, including those offered for privatization nine
months earlier and which have not attracted any qualified offers (that is, those
meeting pre-determined criteria published in a tender request) from the private sector.



- 8 -
Following this step, the Government will appoint a liquidator(s) for each designated
entity. Once an entity has been placed on a liquidation list, liquidation will be
completed within 1 2 months.
22.     Privatization of utilities and infrastructure services is an important
component of our program. A major means of increasing efficiency through private
sector participation in these services would be to promote competition. This would
be achieved by establishing a sound regulatory framework for non-competitive
activities and by ensuring competition in other sectors. The terms of reference for a
study to define the regulatory framework and suggest the means for private sector
participation in infrastructure have been prepared and agreed with IDA.
23.     The Government is keenly aware that PEs may experience substantial labor
redundancy when privatized. We are, therefore, planning to design a program to deal
with this issue, including such measures as early retirement and voluntary departure
with compensation, employee stock ownership plans, and buy-back contracts.
Appropriate allocations for redundancy payments will be included in the annual
budget. The Government believes that for the next phase of the program, it is
desirable to address the labor redundancy issue for each PE before it reaches the point
of sale.
24.     The proceeds from the sale of enterprises will accrue to a revenue account
in the Ministry of Finance. A special line in the budget will show these revenues.
These proceeds will then be used for specific purposes relating to privatization,
including authorized and budgeted expenditures incurred in connection with the
privatization process, redundancy payments, clearance of liabilities, and retiring of
public debt.
25.     Since the privatization process will take time, and some enterprises and
authorities will be active during and after the first phase of privatization, the
Government plans to establish an adequate overview of these entities and strictly
enforce PE financial discipline. The Government has, therefore, consolidated in the
Ministry of Finance financial monitoring of the PE sector as part of its existing
information system.
26.     At present, the losses of PEs are covered by transfers from the budget. By
October 1996, the Government will adopt an action plan, acceptable to IDA, to phase
out transfers to PEs and to settle their arrears.
Changing the Regulatory Framework
27.     The Government believes that the changed domestic economic conditions



-9-
as well as strong international competition for investment resources require additional
improvements to make Yemen's investment environment more attractive and the
economy more competitive. We have, therefore, formulated a deregulation policy
consisting of the following main elements:
(a)   To increase productive efficiency and enhance competition in the
economy, the Government has abolished the previous negative
(privileged) list of 18 industries that were eligible for fewer
investment incentives than other industries, and which were subject
to discretionary restrictions that could be specified by the concerned
authorities.  It would be replaced by a short list of activities,
acceptable to IDA, that may not be undertaken without a license for
reasons directly related to security, religion, health, or environmental
protection.
(b)   The government plans to review the structure and functions of the
GIA, the licensing system, and investment incentives. The terms of
reference for this study have been agreed with IDA. The study will be
completed and the implementation of its recommendations, as agreed
with IDA, initiated by October 31, 1996.
(c)   The Government plans to simultaneously strengthen the system of
enforcing standards and measures applicable to products to maintain
safety, quality, and international competitiveness.
(d)   The Government plans to study the feasibility of establishing
industrial estates to overcome difficulties in land acquisition and
providing infrastructural services to investors.
(e)   With respect to the enforcement of commercial contracts, our
medium to long-term goal is to improve the entire judicial system and
make it comparable with competing countries. Preparatory steps are
being taken in this direction, in particular through the work of the
Legal Reform Unit in the Ministry of Legal Affairs.
Public Expenditure Review
28.     To strengthen the stabilization program, and to lay down the basis for future
fiscal reforms, the Government has requested IDA to undertake a public expenditure
review (PER) by mid-1 996. The Government will discuss the recommendations of the
review with IDA and reach an agreement on a medium-term framework and on 1997
expenditure plans.



- 10-
Social Protection During Adjustment
29.     Recently, high rates of inflation have reduced the real incomes of the Yemeni
people, especially of wage-earners. The deteriorating economic situation has led to
a decline in the quality of social services, especially health and education.
Stabilization and structural adjustment, while laying down the basis for low inflation
and sustained growth, could adversely affect the employment and incomes of
vulnerable groups. Our Government strongly believes that minimizing this effect is
crucial for the success of the reform program. However, recognizing that establishing
a comprehensive social safety net could only be done over several years, the
Government plans to implement some urgent, though limited, social protection
measures simultaneously with the ERC. These include: (a) implementing a civil works
program to be supported by IDA; and (b) protecting expenditures on health and
education during adjustment to maintain the level of these services.
30.     Public Works Program. As part of immediate social protection measures, the
Government has discussed and agreed with IDA on the concept of a public works
project to be supported by IDA. The main purpose of the project would be to provide
income-generating employment to unskilled labor, while upgrading or rehabilitating the
infrastructure and social services. The works to be financed by the project would be
relatively small, labor-intensive, and located primarily in poorer areas. In order to be
able to minimize the negative social impact of the reform program, the project is to
be implemented simultaneously with the ERC. A Memorandum of Understanding
between the Government and IDA has been signed.
31.     Protecting Social Expenditures. The use of certain basic services, namely,
health and primary and secondary education, by low-income groups is relatively high.
These services are also essential for increasing the earning capacity of the poor, and
for improving their skills. As such, the Government will at least maintain expenditures
on these services as a percentage of GDP during the adjustment period.
Free Zone
32.     In addition to the program described above, the Government plans to
establish a free zone in Aden to attract foreign investment, promote exports, and
benefit from international maritime traffic.



- 11 -
D. CONCLUSION
33.     Mr. President, our country has experienced a period of exceptional political,
economic, and soclal turmoil in recent years. After a number of internal and external
shocks, we managed to unify and reconstitite the country. We have now embarked
on an ambitious and comprehensive macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform
program. We have already made some progress toward achieving these goals, by
taking a number of serious steps which we have outlined above. But, much work
remains to be done. The Government of Yemen intends to continue and deepen the
reform program over the medium term. For this, we will need the full cooperation and
support of our multilateral and bilateral partners. IDA's contribution is of utmost
importance, not only in terms of its own direct assistance, but also in terms of
mobilizing other donor support. We look forward to broadening and deepening our
cooperation wlth IDA through the Economic Recovery Credit and other operations.
Sincerely,
Abdulkader Bajemal
Deputy Prime Minister and Ministe
of Planning and Development






Attachment of Annex I
of iii
MATRIX OF PROPOSED POLICY ACTIONS
Component              Medium-Term Objectives  1                                                        ERC Measures
Actions Taken                                  Action to be Taken Prior to
l           l                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Second Tranche Release, October
l____________________________ l__________________________________________________                                           31, 1996
Miacroeconomik        Eliminate macroeconomic instability;    Agreed on a macroeconomic framework in the context of the IMF SBA,    Adhere to the agreed macroeconomic
Framework            achieve sustainable economic growth;     including the adjustment paths of the fiscal and current accounts, key  framework; achieve satisfactory progress
reduce the overall budget deficit to a level    administered prices (power, water, petroleum derivatives, wheat), exchange   in reestablishing macrocconomic stability,
consistent with a viable balance of payments  rate policy, interest rate policy, and an external financing program and  with cmphasis on performance in the fiscal
and moderate inflation, while maintaining  strategy.                                                          and current accounts, fiscal policy,
adequate govemment services for economic                                                                      adjustment of key administcred prices,
and social development,                                                                                       exchange rate policy, and interest rate
policy; satisfactory progress with the
external financing program.
Structural Reform
(a) Trade Policy      Liberalize external trade and institute a
tariff system that does not discrniinate
against exports. Simplify the structure of
tariffs and reduce average tariffrates to 10
percent or less. Seek membership of WTO.
(i) Non-tariff Barriers                                        Eliminated all bans and quantitative restrictions on imports, except for some
agricultural products produced locally and goods banned for national security
or religious rcasons, and replaced then with tariffs withiin he proposed four
bands (see below).
Eliminated the discretion of government agencies to impose export bans,
restrictions, or licensing, except to safeguard national security and cultural
heritage.
Eliminated product-specific import licensing requirements, except for reasons
of national security, public health, religion, or environmental protection in
accordance with standards adopted by competent Yemeni Authorities.
(ii) Tariff Reform                                             Adopted a new tariff structure with four bands: a maximum of 30%, 15%,
10% and 5%. An exceptional rate of 70% will apply only to cigarettes and
tobacco imports.



Attachment of Annex 1
ii of iii
Component                Medium-Term  Objectives             j                    ERC Measures
_       _                                                       Actions Taken                             Action to be Taken Prior to
Second Tranche Release, October
.                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31, 1996
Abolished duty exemption for imports by public enterprises and
the Governmcnt, except for wheat, wheat flour, crude oil for re-
export, and goods exempted under existing legal agreements.
Abolished all remnaining fees and surcharges on imports,
including thc 100% stircharge applicable earlier to un-licensed
imports.
(iii) Other Trade Taxes                                            Tlhe samne excise tax rate is being applied to imports and
competing local products.
(iv) Customs Procedures                                                                                                      Formulate an action plan, acceptable to
IDA, for improving customs procedures.
(b) Privatizatlon and  The public sector would withdraw from the  (a) Approved regulations, guidelincs, and procedures for
PE Reforms             competitive sectors, and private sector     privatization. (b) Established a Teclhnical Privatization Office
participation in the provision of infrastructure    (TPO) to support Privatization Committees. (c) Defined the role
services would be increased. The Government   and scope of work of the TPO.
plans to privatize 70% (in employment tenns)
of the PE sector by the year 2000. In the  The 1995-97 privatizafion program targets of PEs are confirmed.
meantime, to increase their operational
efficiency, the Government would monitor PE
performance and enforce fuiancial discipline.  Offered 6 PEs for sale.
Place any PEs (out of 6 PEs) remaining
unsold on a liquidation schedule in
agreement with IDA.
Offer at least 10 additional PEs for sale.
Agreed on the terms of reference aund schedule for the study,
"Public Utilities Regulatory and Institutional Reform."



Attachment of Annex I
iii of iii
Component                Medium-Term Objectives                                 ERC Measures
Actions Taken                       Action to be Taken Prior to Second
Tranche Release, October 31, 1996
Consolidated in the Ministry of Finance financial monitoring of  Develop time-bound action plan, acceptable
the PE Sector.                                        to IDA, for phasing out budgetary transfers
to PEs and settling their arrears.
(c) Regulatory Reform   Facilitating business entry and exit, and
improving contract enforcement. Improving the
environment for domestic and foreign investors.
This will increase investment> reduce distortions,
expand output, and moderate cost and price
increases.
(i) Investment Regime    Relax entry restrictions and procedures to  Abolished the current product-based list which inhibits
encourage investment and increase competition.   competition. It would be replaced with a new, shorter list of
restricted activities directly related to security, health, religion,
and environmental protection.
(ii) General Investment   Restructuring of GIA activities to focus on  Agreed on terms of reference and schedule for a study to  Complete the study, discuss
Authority (GIA)        investment promotion and facilitation.     review the multiple licensing system, incentives, and   recommendations with IDA, and begin
Restructuring                                                     restructuring of GIA.                                   implementing agreed recommendations.
Based on a public expenditure review by
IDA, to be completed by mid-1996, agree on
(d) Public             Undertake a public expenditure review to                                                           a medium-term framework and expenditure
Expenditures           achieve a sustainable expenditure level and to                                                    plans for 1997.
have a structure of expenditures consistent with
developmental and social goals.
Social Protection
Measures
a) Employment          Generate, at least on a limited scale, productive
Generation           employment during the transitional period of
structural adjustment. it
b) Social Expenditures   Protect education and health expenditures as a  Maintenance, at the 1995 level, of budgetary expenditures on
percentage of GDP. Adopt measures to improve  education and health as a percentage of GDP has been
the efficiency of these services,          confirmed for 1996.
A parallel Bank-supported project is being prepared for this purpose.
m:\roy\matrix2.doc
02/13/96



Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN - KEY INDICATORS                 Page  I of 2
actual                     prelim                  Projected
1990     1991    1992      1993     1994     1995     1996     1997      1998     1999     2000
National Account (% of GDP)
Gross Domestic Product 1/              100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                            18.3      16.3    18.9     18.1      20.9     17.4     17.4     17'1      16.9     16.8     16.4
Industry                               29.7    28.7    25.2       24.0      25.9     27.2     39.8     40.0     39.4      38.4     37.3
Services                               47.9     49.7    50.9      53.5      49.5     50.6     37.9     38.1     38.9    40.1      41.5
Total Consumption                       96.8    111.2   108.4    113.9       89.6     91.8    99.3      98.8      96.5     95.5     96.5
Total Gross Domestic Investment          11.2     11.0    15.6.    15.0      11.9     13.0     14.0     16.0      18.0     20.0     20.0
Domestic Fixed Investment              11.1     13.0    16.3      15.2      12.0     13.0     14.0     16.0      18.0     20.0     20.0
Change in Stock                         0.2    -2.0    -0.6       -0.2      -0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0:0       0.0      0.0
Exports of GNFS                         21.6    25.9    26.7       31.4      43.2     46.0    41.4      43.0     43.9      43.2     43.0
Imports of GNFS                         29.6    48.1      50.8     60.4     44.7      50.8     54.7     57.8     58.4      58.7     59.5
Gross Domestic Savings                   3.2    -11.2    -8.4    -13.9       10.4      8.2      0.7      1.2      3.5      4.5       3.5
Gross National Savings                   17.0     -6.0    -8.9    -15.9      15.5     14.0     11.5     13.5      16.1     17.6     17.1
Memorandum Items
GDP (USS million)                       6868     5038    4674      4254     4545     4785     5112     5352      5560     5801     6027
Real GOP Growth (%)                         ..    0.0      4.2      5.9       0.0      3.6      2.5      5.1      4.3      4.3       4.8
Real Gross Domestic Income (%)              ..   -2.7      4.6      4.5      -6.8      2.5      3.2      6.5      5.0       5.2      5.7
Growth of Real GDP Per Capita (%)           ..   -3.0      1.1      2.6      -3.0      0.5    -0.6       2.0       1.3      1.3      1.8
Growth of Total Cons Per Capita(%)          ..    3.1      -3.7     3.3    -22.4       0.1      5.2      2.2     -0.9       0.3      3.2
Growth of Pnv Cons Per Capita (%)           ..    1.6    -7.8       4.1    -32.1      -1.0      8.3      3.4     -1.4       0.4      4.9
Balance of Payments (USS mil)
Exports of GNFS                         1481     1304    1249      1337     1963     2202    2117      2302      2441     2507     2590
Merchandise FOB                        1384     1197    1095      1167     1820     2027     1934     2110      2191     2237     2300
Imports of GNFS                         2032     2422    2373      2568     2032     2432    2798      3091      3245     3406     3586
Merchandise FOB                        1487    1921      1935     2138     1654     1999    2309      2562      2690     2825     2977
Resource Balance                        -551    -1118    -1124    -1231      -69      -229     -681     -790     -804     -899     -996
NetCurrentTransfers                     1819     1153    1031      1041     1114     1116     1210      1307     1383     1458     1538
(incl official transfer)
Net Factor Income                       -530     -695   -1017    -1098      -810      -797     -620     -612     -647      -662    -679
Current Account Balance                  739     -661    -1110    -1289      235       90      -91       -95      -68      -103    -138
(after official transfers)
Net Foreign Direct Investment           -131      583      719      903       12      -110     -271     -412     -364      -300    -276
Long-Term Loans (net)                     84     -711    -786      -784     -682      -674     108        89      101       97       95
Oil Sector Loans                           0        0        0       94     -202       50       75       110      150      175      275
Other Cap (ind Errors & Omissions)      -696       -1    -211        19      -191       -8       0         0        0        0        0
Change in Reserves                      -266     -235      411      121       -29      -86      85       148       19       -59     -253
Change in Arrears                        271     1025      977      936      857      738        0         0        0        0        0



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN - KEY INDICATORS
actual                      prelim                   Projected
1990    1991      1992     1993      1994     1995     1996      1997     1998      1999     2000
Extra Financing Gap                         0        0        0         0        0        0       94       159       162      189      296
Extra Financing Gap 2/                      0        0        0         0        0        0       94       274      262       245      200
Memorandum Items                                                              -235      -90        -3      -64       -94      -87     -158
Resource Balance (% of GDP)               -8.0    -22.2    -24.1    -28.9     -1.5      -4.8    -13.3    -14.8    -14.5    -15.5    -16.5
Growth of Merchandise Exports (%)           ..    1.4      -8.1      17.9      67.9      3.8     -3.0      5.3       0.8     -1.2      -0.8
Growth of Merchandise Imports (%)           ..   32.5        1.4     15.5    -28.6       7.0     18.3     13.6       3.0      3.1       3.4
Public Finance (% of GDP)
Total Revenue                            24.8     30.7      21.9     20.4      14.2     21.7     30.9     30.6      31.3     31.8      31.0
Total Expenditures                       43.1     41.7     40.7      38.2      31.7    29.7      37.0     33.6      33.8     34.3     33.5
Budget Deficit (-)                      -18.3    -11.0    -18.8    -17.8    -17.6       -8.0     -6.1     -3.0      -2.5     -2.5     -2.5
Price Indice (1990=100)
Merchandise Export Price Index          100.0     85.3     84.9      76.7     71.3     76.5      75.2     77.9      80.3     83.0     86.1
Merchandise Import Price Index          100.0    98.0      97.8      93.9    101.4    113.6    111.7      96.9      98.8    100.6    102.6
Merchandise Terms of Trade Index        100.0    87.1      86.8      81.7     70.3    67.3       67.3     80.5      81.3     82.5     83.9
Growth of CPI. Urban (%)                    ..   45.0      50.7      62.4     71.8    48.0       29.0     20.0      11.0      8.0      7.0
Growth of GDP Deflator (%) 3/               ..   16.2      15.5      19.1     54.8     59.5      49.3     18.0       9.9      7.2      6.3
Notes:
1/ Total shares of the three sectors plus net indirect tax add up to 100%.
2/ Excludes IMF, World Bank adjustment lending from 1997 onward.
3/ The projected GDP deflator is assumed to be 90% of CPI for the urban area.






Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:    Time Table of Key Events
(a)   Identification/Preparation Mission:    May 20, 1995
(b)   Pre-appraisal Mission:                 August 12, 1995
(c)   Project prepared by:                   The Government/IDA
(d)   Departure of Advanced Pre-appraisal/
Appraisal Mission:                     October 24, 1995
(e)   Negotiations:                          December 18-21, 1995
(f)    Board presentations:                  April 9, 1996
(g)   Credit effectiveness:                  Within 90 days after credit signing
Section II:   Special Implementation Actions
None



Annex 4
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
IIDA Credits in Operations Portfolio
(As of February 28, 1996)
Amount in USS mil1ion
(Less cancellations)
Cr.                                                                                  1/
No.    VY   Borrower                        Purpose                  IDA  Undisbursed
83 Credits closed                                     633.36          3.36
Of which SECALS, SALS and Program Loans                 0.00
1886   1988  Yemen, Republic of      Agr. Dev. (North. Reg.)         13.80         0.46
1944   1989  Yemen, Republic of      Al Mukalla Water                12.00         8.48
1983   1989  Yemen, Republic of      Eastern Reg.                    12.68         6.93
2015   1989  Yemen, Republic of      Inst. Dev. for Pub.              8.17          5.27
2045   1989  Yemen, Republic of      Hadramut Agr. III                6.84          6.08
2151   1990  Yemen, Republic of      Health n1                       15.00         13.83
2160   1990  Yemen, Republic of      Taiz Flood Disaster             15.00          5.29
2164   1990  Yemen, Republic of      Power III                       15.50         16.38
2170   1990  Yemen, Republic of      Tarim Water Supply              12.00         12.74
2177   1991  Yemen, Republic of      Multi-mode Transport            30.00          2.27
2222   1991  Yemen, Republic of      Secondary Teacher TR            19.40         12.07
2258   1991  Yemen, Republic of      Emergency Recovery              30.74          5.39
2265   1991  Yemen, Republic of      Fisheries IV                    13.20         9.91
2299   1992  Yemen, Republic of      Nat. Agr. Sect. Mgt.             9.07          8.15
2373   1992  Yemen, Republic of      Land & Water Conserv.           27.76        23.10
2412   1993  Yemen, Republic of      Basic Education                 19.70        20.31
2525   1993  Yemen, Republic of      Family Health                   26.60        27.24
2570   1994  Yemen, Republic of      Education Sector                33.00        34.75
2793   1996  Yemen, Republic of      Vocational Training             24.30        23.17
2819   1996  Yemen, Republic of      Transport Rehab.                37.00        36.46
Total IDA Credits                                    1,015.11      281.65
Of which has been repaid                             39.56
Total now held by IDA                                 975.55
Amount sold                                             0.00
Of which repaid                                      0.00
Total Undisbursed                                                  281.65
1/ Undisbursed balances may exceed difference between commitments (net of cancellations) and
disbursements because of SDRJUS$ parity.



Annex 5
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
(As of January 31, 1996)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year       Obligor                              Type of Business                  Loan    Equity       Total
1978       Yemen Dairy and Juice Industries     Food and Agribusiness             2.40      0.00       2.40
1984/85    Yemen Battery Manufacturing Co.      Manufacturing                     3.25      0.55       3.80
1985       National Company for Vegetable Oil    Food and Agribusiness            4.65       0.00      4.65
1986       Yemen Hunt Oil Company               Mining and Extraction of Fuel     9.00       0.00      9.00
1987       Marib Agriculture Company            Food and Agribusiness             2.40      0.30       2.70
Total Gross Commitments                                               21.70      0.85     22.55
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments & sales                 21.70       0.85     22.55
Total commitments now held by IFC









I hlAGING,
ReporLt No: P-    617 YEM
Type: F'R



