FILE   t JP )                                   Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2232-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 14, 1978
This document has a redricted dIstrIbutlon and may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World fak authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$ 1 = Mex$12.50 which had
prevailed since 1954 was abandoned on August 31, 1976 and the
Mexican peso has been floating since then. In recent weeks
the rate of exchange has fluctuated in the range of Mex$22-23
to the US dollar. On February 7, 1978 the peso traded at 22.74
per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACF        =          Average cost of borrowed funds to financieras
(investment banks).
FONATUR               Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo
IDB        =          Inter-American Development Bank
NAFINSA    =          Nacional Financiera, S.A.
LIBOR      =          London Interbank Offered Rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1.  Borrower:                  Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
2.  Guarantor:                 United Mexican States
3.  Project Execut-            Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo
ing Agency:              (FONATUR)
4.  Loan Amount:               US$50 million
5.  Cofinancing:               A cofinancing loan is being arranged with
a group of foreign commercial banks. The
amount of the loan would be at least US$20
milliou. It is expected that the loan
would have a final maturity of 10 years
and would be repaid in equal semi-annual
installments commencing 42 months from
the date of signing. Interest would be
at 1.25 percent per annum above LIBOR
for deposits at six months.
6.  Loan Terms:                Interest on the loan would be 7.45 percent
per annum. The loan would have a final maturity
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace. The
amortization schedule would be adjusted to
accommodate FONATUR's parallel repayments to
cofinancing commercial banks.
7.  Relending Terms:           The final maturity of subloans would be up to
15 years, including a grace period of up to 3
years; interest rates charged to financial
intermediaries and final borrowers would float
with the average cost of funds to financieras
(ACF), as calculated monthly by the Banco de
Mexico (the ACF stood at 14.6 percent in
December, 1977). On average, financial inter-
mediaries will be charged the ACF and final
borrowers the ACF plus two percentage points.
This new policy will be put into effect before
September 1, 1978.
rThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbced without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
8.  Project Description:       The Project will help FONATUR finance the
construction of hotel accommodations and related
tourism facilities included in its 1977-79
program. Total loan approvals over this period
are projected at US$212 million equivalent, of
which about 90 percent for construction of
20,800 new hotel rooms. FONATUR will also
carry out (i) a study of the demand for
trained hotel personnel and sectoral training
programs; and (ii) a study to identify means
of increasing employment opportunities in
tourism projects. Net foreign exchange earnings
generated by FONATUR's hotel financing program
would amount to some US$3 billion during
the life of the assisted subprojects. Some
32,000 permanent jobs would be created directly
and another 33,000 indirectly. There are no
special risks.
(US$ millions)
9.   Estimated Cost:           Total Cost of Subprojects               573
of which foreign exchange               172
FONATUR's loans                         212
10. Resource Requirements: FONATUR's 1977-79 Financing Program
US$ millions         %
Government                 14.0            6.6
Banco de Mexico            98.0           46.2
World Bank                 50.0           23.6
Other external sources    50.0            23.6
(including private
cofinancing)            212.0          100.0
11.  Disbursements:            The loan is expected to be disbursed as follows
(in US$ million):
Calendar Year:      1978       1979        1980
Annual              10.6       27.6        11.7
Cumulative          10.6       38.3        50.0
12.  Rate of Return:           14 percent
13.  Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 1760-ME, dated February 14, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the guarantee of United
Mexican States for the equivalent of US$50 million to help finance a tourism
development project carried out by the Nacional Fund for Tourism Development
(FONATUR). Interest on the loan would be at 7.45 percent per annum. The
loan would be repaid over 17 years, including 4 years of grace. It is
expected that foreign commercial banks would provide a cofinancing loan of at
least US$20 million with repayment terms providing for a final maturity of 10
years. The cofinancing loan would be repaid in equal semi-annual installments
commencing 42 months from the date of signing and would carry an interest rate
at 1.25 percent per annum above LIBOR for deposits at six months.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico
in April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion
which follows reflects the preliminary findings of the mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector
growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening
of contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under
the reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land
could not improve their economic status in the absence of credit and
technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social equity even
more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accelerated
steadily, primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached 3.4
percent per year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic
growth rate made adequate absorption of the labor force in productive



employment difficult. Some 40 percent of the labor force is either
relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976-- the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating between 22 and 23 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million.
For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-
year stabliization program was negotiated, which could provide as much as
an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes
effective. Thus, total IMF support for the government's program may exceed
US$1.3 billion. The new Government ratified the agreement with the IMF
shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has complied
with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities are adopting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Govern-
ment's program include progressive control of inflation together with a
return to high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978. Better manage-
ment of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control
in public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage
increases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the
private sector are important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation in the twelve months of 1977 slowed to 20.7
percent (December-December) as compared to an annual rate of 60 percent in
the last three months of 1976. The deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments has been reduced, and is estimated preliminarily at
US$2.2 billon for 1977, compared to US$3.5 billon in 1976. Total public
sector financial requirements dropped from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.9



percent in 1977. Mobilization of savings by the banking system is increas-
ing. Perhaps most importantly, there is a general feeling of increased confi-
dence in the Government's economic policy.
9.        The stabilization effort during 1977 was absolutely necessary, but
its price has been the continuation of economic stagnation; for a second
year in a row GDP grew only by about 2 percent in real terms, implying a
further decline of real per capita income. While control of inflation will
remain as the overriding short-term objective--the Government's announced
target is to reduce inflation to about 12-15 percent during 1978--the 1978
economic program aims at a simultaneous recovery of economic activity,
through a recovery of private and public investment. Increased public sector
savings, further strengthening of the financial system and therefore in-
creased'availability of credit to the private sector, and continuation of a
carefully managed wage policy (the annual increase in minimum wages agreed
upon in January 1978 averaged about 14 percent) are the main means the
Government will rely upon to attain the above objectives.
Economic Issues and Prospects
10.       As Mexico looks ahead, the key problems that its economic policies
must address would seem to include the following:
(a) Many Mexican families have not participated in the sustained
economic growth of the last several decades. As of 1975,
about 4,600,000 Mexican families--45 percent of the total--
receive incomes equal to less than one-half the national
average. The members of most of these families work--more
than half of them in agriculture--but they produce little
and receive little. Mexico's labor force is now growing
even more rapidly than in the past--it will grow at about
3.6 percent per year over the next decade, which implies an
average annual increase by some 670,000 workers during 1978-82;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year.
The challenge of providing productive jobs for both new
entrants and existing under-productive workers is an awesome
one.
(b) Crop and livestock production in Mexico, which had grown by
6 percent per year during 1944-55 and 4.2 percent per year
during 1955-60, grew at only 2.1 percent per year during
1965-70. This near-stagnation of agricultural production
signals the end of the strategy in which growth of agricul-
tural production came from newly irrigated land, while rain-
fed agriculture was relatively neglected. The continued
expansion of large-scale irrigation, so successful from
1945 into the 1960s, has brought lower and lower returns as
the works became costlier and easily accessible export markets
for high-value crops became more nearly saturated. New
approaches are required now to assure the increase of produc-
tion and of incomes for Mexico's poor rural families.



-4-
(c) The size and role of the State in the economy has been a
subject of much discussion in Mexico in recent years.
During 1970-76, private investment slowed down, and virtually
stagnated since 1975. This was, in part, a consequence of
the pre-emption of credit by the public sector (during the
six-year period, the share of the public sector in the
economy grew from 15.0 to 21.5 percent), combined with infla-
tionary financing and accompanied by what some perceived as
an "anti-business" attitude. The actions of the present
Administration show that it intends to reverse this trend.
(d) The present large foreign debt and sizable public finance
deficit are mainly the direct outcomes of past public sector
inability to mobilize adequate financial resources. By the
early 1980s, large increases in export revenues, mainly from
petroleum and related products, should make both the foreign
debt problem and public finances much easier to manage. In
the meantime, however, larger public sector savings are
required to reduce inflationary pressures and to release
credit for the private sector.
(e) The rapid growth and heavy concentrations of people and
production in Mexico City, and the scarcity of employment
opportunities and services in rural areas, are important
challenges which have to be confronted. Both equity and
efficiency considerations imply a need for diversion of
some of Mexico City's future growth to other regions, as
well as the provision of basic public services and enhanced
employment opportunities in selected villages and small
towns.
11.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
14), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining five years of the present Administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the
Government's family planning program (on October 28, 1977 President Lopez
Portillo announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to
2.5 percent per year by 1982, then progressing to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3
percent by 1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed
agriculture, and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing
productive employment should help to address the structural problems mentioned
above (para. 10).
12.       In agriculture, the Government's quick action to defuse tensions
created by land invasions and expropriations at the end of 1976, and its
intended decision to review the legislation concerning land and water use,
should reduce uncertainty and induce a better use of the available land and
water resources. In addition, the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture--which
had been relatively neglected in the past--should lead to an increase in the



-5-
production potential of vast areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal
of the past trend towards larger income disparities between the modern and
traditional agricultural subsectors. Development of tropical agriculture
and of small irrigation and drainage works are also new features of the
Government's agricultural policy. These initiatives, together with the more
realistic exchange rate, all promise a resumption of growth of production
for both domestic and export markets and increase the possibilities of an
improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
13.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
Increases in tourism export earnings are also expected.
14.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discover-
ies of rich petroleum fields. Proven oil reserves are estimated to be at
least 17 billion barrels, which gives a production/reserve ratio (computed
at the 1977 production rate) of more than 45 years. The Government has
decided to use these large hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's
heavy debt service burden and to enhance the country's over-all development
prospects. To meet this objective, PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, the State-
owned oil monopoly) has launched an ambitious six-year investment program
amounting to US$17.0 billion in 1977 prices (about 25 percent of total
public investment). This program would:
(a) almost triple the production of oil and condensates, from 292
million bbl/year in 1976 to 818 million bbl/year in 1982;
(b) -more than double the country's primary distillation
capacity, from 270 million bbl/year in 1976 to 577 bbl/year
in 1982;
(c) substantially increase production of primary petrochemicals
(ammonia, ethylene, benzene, etc.) as well as downstream
products (styrene, vinyl-chloride, polyethylene); and
(d) enable export of natural gas at a rate of 2.0 billion
cubic feet/day by 1982.
Under this program, the value of exports of oil and related products would
increase over ten times, from about US$0.9 billion in 1977 to more than
US$10.0 billion in 1982. If this program were to be carried out on schedule,
the balance of payments on current account would shift from a deficit of
US$2.1 billion in 1977 to a surplus of about US$3.0 billion in 1982.
15.       The prospect of rapidly rising petroleum exports, as well as
previously mentioned prospects for increases in tourism earnings, recovery
of agricultural exports, and resumption of growth of manufactured exports,
have greatly strengthened the balance of payments outlook. Even on the basis



- 6 -
of somewhat more conservative projections of petroleum production and exports
than those mentioned above, the current account deficit can be expected to
decline steadily over the next several years and become slightly positive by
1982, thus reducing Mexico's net external borrowing requirements (Annex I).
The debt service ratio is expected to continue to rise over the next year
or two and then to decline sharply, reaching about 30 percent by 1982. Debt
service on Bank loans amounts to about 4 percent of public debt service; this
ratio is projected to decrease over the next two years and to increase to some
extent afterwards. The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of Mexico's
total medium and long term public debt, and this ratio is likely to increase
to some extent over the next few years. Mexico remains creditworthy for
borruwing on conventional terms because of the Government's adoption of the
coumprehensive economic strategy mentioned above, and Mexico's strong medium-
ara. long-term potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
16.       As of December 31, 1977, Mexico had received 49 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,574.4 million net of cancellations; of these, 32 loans
totalling US$1,451.4 million were fully disbursed. As of December 31, 1977,
the Bank held US$2,097.7 million of which US$753.5 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 36 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development (15 loans for US$923.7 million), 27 percent for power (12 loans
for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation projects (12 loans for
US$546.7 million); the remaining 15 percent has been for industry (US$205.5
million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism (US$64 million) projects.
Mexico is now in the midst of a stabilization program and because of scarcity
of counterpart funds, several-projects have fallen behind schedule during 1976
and 1977. Following review with the Government, a steel loan has been can-
celled (Sec M77-258 of April 5, 1977), the scope of an irrigation project has
been reduced and US$100 million from the original US$150 million loan have
been cancelled (R77-305 of December 13, 1977) and the scope of several other
projects have been modified. Some other projects under implementation and
affected by the stabilization program are being reviewed by a working group
set up by the Government and further discussions will be held with the Bank
shortly. By and large, adequate budget support for the ongoing projects has
now been secured. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
December 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
17.       As of December 31, 1977, IFC has made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.2 million, of which US$38.3 million had been
sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$30.8 mil-
lion, consists of US$26.3 million in loans and US$4.5 million in equity. A
summary statement of IFC investments as of December 31, 1977 is presented in
Annex II.



-7-
Bank Strategy
18.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to; (i)
support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the benefits
of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued
economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make directly or
indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and employment;
and (iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. In this and the next fiscal year, the Bank will preferentially support
projects that make relatively modest demands on budgetary resources and have a
strong positive balance of payments effect, projects of high social priority
that help the rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of
employment and those that help to decentralize economic activity. The pro-
posed tourism project meets several of these criteria (see paras 60 and 61).
19.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the
Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. Consistent with
the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a three-tier approach
has been developed. First, to strengthen irrigation and agricultural credit
programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing population more ade-
quately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for rising import require-
ments. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor and improve their
standards of living through a combination of directly productive support and
social infrastructure investments. Third, to strengthen Mexico's institutional
capability to use scarce agricultural resources more efficiently. In support
of this strategy, the Bank has made seven loans over the past four years,
totalling US$579 million, for irrigation, rural development and agriculture
and livestock credit programs. In FY77, the Executive Directors approved a
US$120 million loan for an Integrated Rural Development Project--PIDER II--
under which some 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from directly produc-
tive activities. This fiscal year, an agricultural development project
focusing on the humid tropics, and an agriculture and livestock credit project
have been appraised and will be submitted to the Executive Directors in the
coming months.
20.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas. Thus, the Executive Directors approved a loan for a Second Industrial
Equipment Fund Project in FY76 aimed at financing industrial projects with
a positive effect on the balance of payments; a US$50 million loan made
in FY75 to support a fertilizer project is promoting new poles of development
in the resource-rich southeast region and the north central area and will
help make Mexico independent of imported urea fertilizer in the medium term.
A project to promote small and medium-scale enterprises, a third Industrial
Equipment Fund project and a fertilizer project are currently being processed
for submission to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
21.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms



-8-
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing: the Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed in support of the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) has been instrumental in the estab-
lishment of a specialized institution for efficient management of water
resources in the Mexico Valley, and in the pricing of water at levels more
closely related to costs.
22.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families in
selected priority cities.
23.       The Government, pressed to reduce the external deficit on current
account, is giving emphasis to the tourism sector to generate higher foreign
exchange earnings. Promotion of the sector which requires only limited budget
support, will help increase employment opportunities, especially in a number
of regions where the scarcity of jobs encourages migration to the already
over-burdened metropolitan areas. In support of this policy, the proposed
operation will provide resources for tourism superstructure investments and
to help tap more fully the country's tourism potential. This would be the
third tourism project in Mexico; experience with previous tourism projects
is recorded in paragraph 41 below.
PART III: THE TOURISM SECTOR
General
24.       Mexico stands out as one of the world's major tourism destinations
and is the most accessible, truly foreign destination for U.S. and Canadian
tourists who, together, account for about 90 percent of foreign visitors. It
offers an impressive array of tourist attractions: the architectural remains
of a series of major civilizations, an agreeable climate, and excellent and
unspoiled beaches along the Pacific and Caribbean Coasts. Climatic conditions
make Mexico a year-round destination and visitor flows show only a minor
degree of seasonality.
25.       Tourism is Mexico's leading foreign exchange earning sector; exclud-
ing border transactions, the sector's gross earnings have been increasing at
about 12 percent per annum over the last 10 years and amounted to some US$820
million in 1976 or about 12 percent of total exports of goods and non-factor
services. Tourism plays a major role in Mexico's economy by its contribution
to employment and towards a more balanced regional distribution of economic
activities.



-9-
26.       The tourism sector currently employs directly a work force estimated
at between 300,000 and 400,000 persons. Significantly, most of those employed
are drawn from the unskilled sections of the population and have obtained
relatively well-paid jobs after little training. Moreover, tourist demands
for handicrafts, transportation and other services help spread economic
benefits. Because many touristic areas have few alternative development
opportunities, tourism plays an important role in the Government's policy of
promoting spatial decentralization, particularly along the Pacific Coast, in
Baja California and in the Yucatan peninsula (See Map IBRD 13333).
Tourism Sector Institutions
27.       Until the late 1960s the Government's expenditure on tourism
development was modest and its promotional role minimal, but the private
sector was successful in building upon the country's unique assets. Such
private development tended, however, to stress short-term profitability with
little regard to the longer run impact on the economy and the physical and
social environment. Recognizing the need to guide the growth of an increas-
ingly important sector, the Government created in 1969 a special trust fund
under the Banco de Mexico to develop and promote integrated tourism resorts.
This institution was merged in 1974 with another trust fund for hotel financ-
ing, and FONATUR was thus established, integrating most activities of the
public sector in the tourism field. A Ministry of Tourism was created in
1974 to coordinate all aspects of sectoral development. Another institution
is the National Council of Tourism whose principal task is the promotion
abroad of tourism in Mexico; the Council has recently been brought under the
Ministry.                                            -      
Tourism Trends and Market Potential
28.       The tourist industry of Mexico has three broad categories of
clients: foreign tourists visiting the interior (classified as "foreign
visitors" in this report), US residents crossing the border for short stays,
and domestic tourists.
29.       Between 1965 and 1974, the number of foreign visitors increased at
an average annual rate of over 10 percent; during the same period, the number
of foreign visitors arriving by air increased by almost 16 percent per year,
increasing its share from 36 percent to 48 percent.  Foreign visitors arriving
by air make a greater demand on international class hotels, and spend on
lodging about five times as much as those travelling by road. Total foreign
exchange earnings increased from $275 million in 1965 to $842 million in
1974, or at about 14 percent a year in this period. However, after peaking
in 1974 at 3.4 million, the number of visitor arrivals declined to 3.1
million in 1976 (the first decline since 1953); this decline was mainly
attributable to the economic recession in the US, rising air transport prices
and Mexico's uncompetitive position resulting from an over-valued currency.
Visitor traffic in 1976 was also affected by the US Bicentennial celebrations
and the Montreal Olympics, which attracted many North American tourists.



- 10 -
30.       The foreign visitor market has now recovered because of the devalua-
tion of the peso in 1976, the improvement in the U.S. economy and the exten-
sion of direct air access to more points in Mexico. A major factor that will
further improve Mexico's attractiveness for foreign tourists is the new
bilateral air agreement with the U.S.A. Signed in January 1978, the new agree-
ment provides for new or expanded scheduled service from 33 US cities to one
or more of 21 Mexican destinations, including a number of tourism resorts in
the Yucatan peninsula, in Baja California and on the Pacific Coast; restric-
tions imposed on charter service are minimal. The Government projects foreign
tourism to grow at an annual rate of 9 percent over the next 10 years; if this
were to happen, the number of foreign visitors would increase to 4.5 million
in 1980 and 7.3 million by 1985. Applying a more conservative projection of
6 percent annual growth, assumed for analyzing the project under consideration,
the increase would be to 4.0 million by 1980 and 5.3 million by 1985.
31.        The number of border crossings from the US into Mexico is estimated
at some 60 million a year, but accounts for less than 2% of the total guest
nights spent by foreign tourists. The Government is now investigating the
potential of border tourism with the West and Southwest US.
32.        An important recent development has been the emergence of domestic
tourism and this clientele will continue to grow in the coming years, as
foreign travel for Mexicans, who were spending approximately US$400 million a
year abroad in the recent past, has become expensive since the devaluation.
Domestic tourism complements foreign tourism in the country and compensates
for the slight seasonal decline in foreign arrivals in the summer, thus
helping the industry to achieve relatively high occupancy rates; foreigners
contribute about one-half of the clientele of the international class hotels,
the main target for support under the proposed project.
33.        The combined effect of foreign visitor and domestic tourism on
-the industry, at the assumed 6 percent a year growth rate, is summarized in
the tab-le below:
1976        1980        1985
(Actual)
--------(in millions)-------
Number of Visitors
Foreign                                               3.1         4.0        5.3
Mexican                                              20.9        26.4        35.3
Number of Visitor Nights
Foreign                                              35.4        44.0        58.3
Mexican                                              41.8        52.8        70.6



- 11 -
Hotel Industry and its Financing
34.       Hotel and other accommodation capacity reached 195,000 rooms in
1976, of which 88,000 (45 percent) were in the international hotel category.
Although hotel construction costs increased by 8 to 10 percent annually in the
early 1970s, and by 25-30 percent in 1976 and 1977 after the devaluation of
the peso, they are still very reasonable when compared to many other destina-
tions; it is estimated that in 1977 prices, investment costs per room in
Mexico ranged from over US$40,000 for international class hotels to less
than US$25,000 for economy class hotels. The Mexican hotel industry also
enjoys relatively low operating costs. However, analysis of a sample of
representative hotels indicate that these favorable factors do not result in
high financial returns because average room rates are also relatively low.
These rates are controlled by the Ministry of Tourism to ensure orderly growth
of the industry, and are periodically reviewed and adjusted to avoid disincen-
tives for hotel investments.
35.       Hotel financing in Mexico usually involves at least 40 percent
equity, often 50 percent or more. Although the return on equity of Mexican
hotels is relatively modest, there are other considerations such as hedging
against inflation and the potential for capital gains that can appeal to
investors. Nevertheless, hotel projects are characterized by a long gestation
period, low cash dividends in the early years, and bulkiness of investment.
Private financial institutions in Mexico have been reluctant to play a pioneer-
ing role in financing hotels because of their limited experience in the sector
and because the hotel industry needs longer term loans than these banks
normally provide. The mortgage banking system, an important source of hotel
finance in many countries, is a relatively minor source of finance in Mexico.
Finally, investors do not enjoy any special incentives such as tax exemptions
or tax holidays which are commonly available in many other countries. Foreign
banks have taken only a marginal interest in financing hotels and much of the
hotel expansion in Mexico in recent years has been assisted by FONATUR, which
has supplied the bulk of hotel credit by rediscounting term loans of private
and public financing institutions. FONATUR's experience with this form of
hotel financing has demonstrated that commercial banks can tie up funds for
up to 15 years in hotels when the project and its market are properly evaluated.
Investment Priorities
36.       Since its inception in 1974, FONATUR has concentrated its tourism
infrastructure development efforts on four new sites: Cancun in the Yucatan
peninsula (with IDB assistance), Zihuatenajo-Ixtapa on the Pacific Coast (with
Bank assistance), and Loreto and San Jose del Cabo in Baja California (also
with Bank assistance); some modest infrastructure investments have also been
made in Oaxaca (see Map IBRD 13333). FONATUR has at present no plans to
open up new areas and will instead consolidate its position by promoting the
above mentioned sites and ensuring the development or extension of the accom-
modation capacity as needed.  Private Mexican investors are considering to
develop a number of resorts on the West Coast such as Las Hadas in the Manzanillo
area; these investments, which will help to tap more fully Mexico's tourism
market, are consistent with the Government's spatial strategy.



- 12 -
37.       The average occupancy rates of large international standards hotels
were between 75 and 82 percent in the first half of 1977; occupancy rates
ranged between 50 and 65 percent for lower category hotels during the same
period. Even assuming further inprovement in occupancy rates for existing
hotels, some 33,000 new rooms would be needed over the period 1977-81; the
international hotel category alone would account for 23,000 rooms. To reach
this target, it is estimated that construction of some 24,000 new rooms would
have to be started in the period 1977-79, of which 18,000 in the international
category. FONATUR will continue to play a key role in channeling long-term
funds into the sector and in encouraging the increased involvement of Mexican
and foreign financial institutions. The proposed Bank loan would help fill an
important gap in the financing of the Mexican tourism sector directly, and
indirectly through complementary funds mobilized through co-financing arrange-
ments (para. 51).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History and Background
38.       In early 1977, Mexico was facing a serious current account imbalance
and the Government approached the Bank in February for assistance in stimulat-
ing investments in superstructure facilities to attract foreign tourists and
increase earnings from tourism. A pre-appraisal mission visited Mexico in
March 1977 to review preparation, and the project was appraised in the months
of May/June 1977. A staff appraisal report entitled "Tourism Development Loan,"
No. 1760-NE, dated February 14, 1978 is being circulated separately. A
loan and project summary is presented at the beginning of this report.
Negotiations took place in Washington from January 9 to 19, 1978. The
Mexican team was led by Mr. Galicia (NAFINSA).
39.       As stated earlier, Mexico's tourist potential is far from being
fully developed (paras. 28-33 and 37) and its continued growth requires
substantial investments in hotels and ancillary facilities. The proposed
project would rely on the financial institutions and entrepreneurs of Mexico
to implement these investments and would help provide FONATUR with the neces-
sary complementary resources hotel financing program through 1979. 1/
FONATUR's Management and Organization
40.       FONATUR's manager reports to a nine-member Board chaired by the
Minister of Tourism, and comprising five other Government representatives and
three from the private sector. The new manager in function since October
1977 has a long banking experience acquired in the private as well as the
public sector. There are two major operating departments: one responsible
1/   FONATUR also helps finance a few non-accommodation subprojects
(e.g. restaurants), accounting for a minimal share of FONATUR's
portfolio. This ancillary activity has been included under "hotel
financing operations" in this report.



- 13 -
for tourism infrastructure projects, and the other (the Operations Depart-
ment) for hotel credits, equity investments, and related financial and
promotional activities. A third department provides accounting, admin-
istrative and personnel services to the operating departments. FONATUR
now employs some 450 persons, 250 of which are employed on fixed term
contracts.
FONATUR's Operations - The Past
(i) Infrastructure Operations
41.       FONATUR's infrastructure development aims at diversifying tourism
destinations in Mexico to facilitate the orderly growth of tourism capacity,
tap more fully Mexico's tourism potential by attracting a larger market and
ensure a more equitable spread of economic benefits. The Bank is supporting
FONATUR's infrastructure development projects at Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo ($22
million Loan 793-ME of January 1972) and in Baja California ($42 million Loan
1420-ME of July 1977); IDB has made two successive loans of US$21.5 million
and US$20 million to help develop Cancun in the Yucatan Peninsula. The Bank's
first loan supported tourism infrastructure investments in Ixtapa, on the
Pacific Coast of Mexico, and related urban infrastructure in the neighboring
town of Zihuatanejo. Besides developing a new resort, the project aimed to
integrate tourism with urban development, to improve the quality of life of
the local population, particularly the poorer sections. After initial delays
due to land rights problems, the infrastructure works have now been completed;
two hotels are open for business, and several others are under construction;
over 2,600 rooms are expected to be available by the end of 1979 (by which
time the last project component, a hotel training school in Zihuatanejo,
will have been completed). The implementation of the project thus nears its
expected physical targets. In addition, tourism to Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo has
rapidly increased and is expected to accelerate following the bilateral air
agreement with the USA (para. 30). The second loan supports the development
of the sites of Loreto and San Jose del Cabo in the Baja California peninsula.
This project has goals similar to those of the first operation and will
provide the opportunity to further tap the west and southwest US which are
among the largest and richest tourist-generating markets. Implementation is
on schedule.
(ii) Hotel Financing Operations
42.       FONATUR's hotel financing operations are nationwide and are intended
to facilitate investment on appropriate terms for tourist accommodation
projects. To meet this objective, FONATUR (a) rediscounts loans of financial
intermediaries; (b) provides technical assistance to both intermediaries and
investors; and (c) provides equity and/or direct loans to hotel projects
regarded as critical to promote the resorts where they are located.
43.       Over the period 1973-76, FONATUR approved 428 loans amounting to
Mex$3.6 billion. The loans helped finance projects with a total cost of
Mex$8.9 billion, 90% of which was accounted for by the construction of 21,000



- 14 -
new rooms and the renovation of 3,000 existing ones. FONATUR's equity portfolio
expanded rapidly over the last three years and its book value reached Mex$1.0
billion at the end of 1976. FONATUR has now a controlling interest in 18
hotels and a majority participation in three more. More than half of the
equity investments and direct loans have been made in hotels in the new
resorts of Cancun and Ixtapa. FONATUR's performance compares favorably with
other trust funds in Mexico. As operations continue to expand, FONATUR has
felt the need to clarify its equity investment and lending policies so as to
operate in the future with the discipline of a formal policy framework. To
this end, FONATUR has adopted a satisfactory policy statement making more
explicit its hotel-financing policies and priorities and setting operational
guidelines for its involvement in hotel subprojects.
Project Appraisal and Supervision
44.       Appraisal of direct loans and equity investments by FONATUR is
considered satisfactory. In the case of loans discounted from financial
intermediaries, FONATUR appraises the construction, design and marketing
aspects of the projects, and the financial intermediaries appraise the credit-
worthiness of the subborrowers. Although appraisals are of good quality, they
do not always shed sufficient light on some marketing, economic and managerial
aspects. FONATUR will upgrade its procedures in this respect and will intro-
duce more elaborate economic screening methods.
45.       Equity investments and direct loans are supervised closely by
FONATUR. In the case of rediscounted loans, financial intermediaries have the
primary supervision responsibility, and FONATUR staff is available upon request.
FONATUR is initiating a monitoring system of its portfolio to facilitate policy
reviews, management and control.
FONATUR's Financial Position
46.       FONATUR's infrastructure operations are financially sound:  total
assets increased from Mex$241 million in December 1972 to Mex$2,261 million in
December 1976, and FONATUR has earned a significant cash flow surplus from
sales of developed land and other infrastructure facilities.
47.       FONATUR's hotel financing activities accounted for total assets
of Mex$3.5 billion at the end of 1976, more than three times the 1974 level of
Mex$1.l billion. The underlying capital structure at the end of 1976 included
Mex$l.l billion in equity, Mex$2.2 billion of medium term loans from the Banco
de Mexico, and Mex$0.l billion of retained earnings. The net working capital
stands at Mex$270 million and is considered to be adequate.
48.       The earning record of hotel financing activities has been mixed
in recent years with a profit of about Mex$20 million in 1975, offset by a
loss of similar magnitude in 1976. The loss in 1976 was largely the result of
significantly increased interest expense on new borrowings from Banco de
Mexico, which were not passed on to borrowers thus resulting in a negative
interest rate spread for the year (this situation was corrected in 1977; see



- 15 -
para. 54 below). Administrative expenses have been consistently held below
1 percent of total assets. Gross income as a proportion of total assets is
still modest (5.8 percent in 1976) for this reason and because new hotels in
which FONATUR has invested are not yet generating significant incomes.
FONATUR's Operations - The Future
(i) Infrastructure Operations
49.       Over the next few years, FONATUR will consolidate its infrastructure
development program and complete its major projects (in Cacun, Ixtapa-
Zihuatanejo, and Baja California). The resource requirements for this
program are estimated at Mex $2.1 billion, and are being met from Government
equity contributions and internal cash generation, and from IBRD and IDB
loans which have already been made.
(ii) Hotel Financing Operations
50.       In support of the additional capacity needs over the period 1977-79
(para. 37), FONATUR's program would assist in financing 20,800 rooms, three
fourths of which would be of international category. The total investment
cost of these accommodation projects and related facilities is estimated at
Mex$16.4 billion, of which about Mex$10.5 billion would be mobilized by
financial intermediaries and investors from their own resources; the balance,
Mex$6.1 billion, or 37 percent of the total costs, would be funded by FONATUR's
loans. FONATUR would raise about half of the funds needed from the Banco de
Mexico (medium term bonds) and the Government (equity contributions); the
remaining half would come from net debt service inflows and external borrowings.
In addition to the proposed Bank loan of US $50 million, foreign commercial
banks would contribute about US$20 million in the co-financing operation
described below.
Co-financing with Foreign Commercial Banks
51.       In connection with the proposed Bank loan, NAFINSA, on FONATUR's
behalf, is arranging co-financing from foreign commercial banks for a loan of
at least US$20 million and expects to obtain the terms and conditions
summarized below:
Borrower:                 NAFINSA
Beneficiary               FONATUR
Purpose:                  Assist FONATUR's hotel financing operations
Maturity:                 10 years
Repayments:               In equal semi-annual installments commencing
42 months from date of signing.



- 16 -
Interest Rate:            1.25 percent per annum above LIBOR for deposits
at six months. Interest will be payable
semi-annually.
Commitment Fee:           0.5 percent per annum on the undrawn portion of the
loan. The loan would be drawn down as required by
FONATUR over a 24 month-period following the date
of signing.
Management Fee:           About 0.5 percent of the amount of the loan.
These terms would represent an improvement over those obtained in the recent
past by Mexican borrowers in the eurodollar market. FONATUR will assume the
foreign exchange risk and will service, through NAFINSA, the Bank and the
cofinanciers' loans. FONATUR will mix cofinancing and Bank funds in the
subloans taking into account the shorter term of the cofinancing loan, the
differential in the interest rates applied to Bank and cofinancing funds,
the debt servicing capability of the subproject, and the creditworthiness
of the subborrower concerned. In order that the amortization requirements
on FONATUR's external borrowings may conform as closely as possible to the
amortization payments that it would receive on sub-loans, it is proposed that,
as soon as the final amount and terms of the co-financing loan are determined,
the amortization schedule of the Bank loan should be adjusted in such a
manner as to assure that amortization repayments on FONATUR's external bor-
rowings for the project would approximate those which it would have been
required to make if it had borrowed the entire amount on Bank terms; the grace
period of the Bank loan would not be extended. Schedule I of the draft loan
agreement shows the normal amortization schedule; Annex 4 of this report shows
how this schedule would be adjusted if the co-financing loan is finally
obtained in the amount and on the terms summarized above.
Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Bank Loan and Subloans
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million would amount to about
9 percent of the total cost of projects in FONATUR's 1977-79 program (estimated
at US$573 million equivalent) and about 29 percent of the estimated foreign
exchange costs (estimated at US$172 million equivalent). Most of the Bank
loan would be channelled to subprojects through intermediaries. The aggregate
amount of the proceeds used for equity investments and direct loans would not
exceed US$12 million and up to US$4.5 million could be used for non-hotel
projects. Subloans would be up to 15 years, including a grace period not
exceeding three years. The total amount of loan proceeds allocated to any
subproject would not exceed the foreign exchange component, estimated at
30 percent of total costs on average (Section 2.02, draft Loan Agreement).
53.       In the light of its appraisal capability and experience, FONATUR
would approve subloans requiring not more than US$700,000 of the proceeds of
the loan without prior review by the Bank (Section 2.02(b), draft Loan
Agreement). About 30 per cent of FONATUR's subloans, corresponding to about



- 17 -
two-thirds of the proceeds of the loan would be reviewed by the Bank. All
proposed equity participations would be sent to the Bank for review (Section
2.03 (a) draft Loan Agreement).
54.       As stated earlier (para. 48), FONATUR suffered a loss in 1976 on
its hotel operations because of the negative spread between its borrowing
costs and its lending rates. In June 1977, FONATUR's rates were increased
by 2 percentage points and the financial intermediaries were charged interest
rates ranging between 8 and 14.5 percent, and the ultimate borrowers between
11 to 17 percent (the rates vary with the amount of the subloan and the
nature of the sub-project). The Government and FONATUR propose to introduce
floating interest rates by September 1, 1978. The new interest rates to the
intermediaries would be linked to the average cost of borrowed funds to
financieras (ACF). This index, published monthly by the Banco de Mexico,
represents the average interest rate paid by financieras (investment banks)
on notes and bonds; it stood at 14.6 percent in December 1977. Final borrowers
would pay interest charges reflecting, on average, the ACF plus 2 percentage
points (Section 3.02, draft Loan Agreement). This is a marked improvement
over the present practice and will result in final borrowers paying, on
average, rates positive in real terms. Not more than US$10 million out of the
proceeds of the loan will be used on subloans approved before the ACF floating
interest rate policy is put into effect (Section 2.02(c) draft Loan Agreement).
Manpower Training and Employment Studies
55.       For the period 1976-1982, the demand for trained staff from the
hotel industry is estimated at 15,000 a year of which 11,600 for lower
level jobs. The present training structure cannot meet this demand.
FONATUR has agreed to carry out a study to determine more precisely the
demand fo-r trained hotel staff and the necessary arrangements to meet it.
In parallel, FONATUR will carry out another study to identify means by
which employment opportunities for less skilled persons can be increased
through the design and execution of tourism projects. Both studies will
be completed by June 30, 1979 (Section 3.07, draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Procurement would follow standard Bank practice for DFC projects.
The Bank would reimburse 40 percent of FONATUR's disbursements in respect of
eligible subprojects, a percentage substantially lower than the estimated
average foreign exchange component (para 52). Only expenditures made within
180 days prior to the date on which the Bank receives an application to
disburse on a subloan or investment would be eligible for Bank financing
(Section 2.02(c)(iv), draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Prospects of FONATUR's hotel financing operations:
57.       Projected income statements for these operations show only a
small profit in 1977 and 1978, because of negative interest spreads on past



- 18 -
loans (para 54). After 1978 profitability should increase steadily as a
result of higher interest rates and improved income from the new hotels in
FONATUR's investment portfolio.
58.       The capital structure for the Operations Department on December 31,
1981 would include Mex$6.9 billion in funded debt, Mex$4.5 billion in paid-in
capital, and Mex$1.0 billion in retained earnings. The long-term debt to
equity ratio should drop steadily from 1.6 to 1 in 1977 to 1.4 to 1 in 1981.
The current ratio and net working capital position would reach a low of 1.3
to 1 and Mex$165 million, respectively, before improving steadily, starting
in 1981.
Risks
59.       Assuming that the quality of FONATUR's management is maintained,
the project does not present special risks. As stated earlier (para. 30) the
Government has projected foreign tourism to grow in the next ten years at an
annual rate of 9 percent, but a more conservative projection of 6 percent has
been assumed for the analysis of this project. In the unlikely event of a
lower growth rate, the demand for loan funds would be lessened, and either the
implementation period of the project would have to be extended or unused loan
proceeds cancelled.  Considering FONATUR's experience, the risk of uneconomic
investments is minimal.
Project Benefits and Justification
60.       The individual subprojects financed by FONATUR would have to show
acceptable economic rates of return, in addition to meeting sound technical
and financial criteria. The economic rate of return of FONATUR's hotel finan-
cing program is estimated at 14 percent. The proposed loan would strengthen
Mexico's balance of payments by helping finance projects with foreign exchange
earnings potential that might otherwise not be undertaken due to scarcity of
long term financing: by 1985 annual net foreign exchange earnings from
FONATUR's 1977-79 program would amount to about US$120 million. During the
life of the investments, such earnings would add up to some US$3 billion.
The pxogram would generate some 32,000 permanent jobs directly and another
33,000 indirectly; the bulk of these would be filled by semi-skilled or
unskilled labor and about 40 percent could be filled by women. The ratio of
investment costs to direct employment in man-years (both streams discounted
at 10 percent) is $1,700 per man-year, which is considered appropriate. The
relative importance of the number of indirect jobs comes from the fact that
more than half of total tourist expenditures are incurred outside hotels: for
example, almost 15 percent of total tourist expenditures are on handicrafts
and souvenir shopping, affecting the incomes of more than five million
Mexicans. Finally, many subprojects would be located in outlying areas and
support the Government's spatial decentralization policy.
61.       The proposed operation will help directly fill an important gap in
the financing of the Mexican tourism sector and induce complementary foreign
financing on attractive terms and conditions (para. 51). The loan will also



- 19 -
support the introduction of more flexible interest rate policies which are
conducive to efficient resource mobilization (para. 54). Additionally, the
project will be instrumental in fostering institutional improvements in
FONATUR and in the hotel training field (paras. 44 and 55).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
MEXICO              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA   (THOU   KM2)            ------------                  ---- - ------
----------- AREA  KM2)MEXICO                                                      REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1972.5                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     948.9                       '960       1970   ESTIMATE           BRAZIL         CHILE           SPAIN****
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    370.0*    690.0*  1090.0*/a               550.0      820.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           36.0       50.4      62.0 /a             92.8         9.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       18.0       26.0      31.0 Ia             11.0        12.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        35.0       52.0       65.0 7-a           49.0        58.0       105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.1       43.8       42.0                38.4        32.9       21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THoU,AV)          14.0       10.2        8.6                 9.9        11.0         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        74.0       68.5       52.0              110.0        79.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       56.3       62.4       64.7               59.4        60.6        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        3.1        3.0                 2.6         2.2         1.4
POPULAT1ON GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.1        3.4        3.6**               2.9         2.4        1.1
URBAN                                 4.9        4.8        5.1                 5.0         3.5        2.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          90.7       58.7      63.3                 55.9        76.0       59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.8       46.2       46.3               42.0        39.0        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50.9       50.1       50.3               55.0        56.3        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.3        3.7        3.4                 3.0         4.7        9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0        1.0        1.0                 0.8         0.8        0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6        2.0        1.8 /b              1.5         1.6         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..       55.5      321.1              250.0       403.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..       13.1                 1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        11300.0   13000.0   16600.0              29400.0      2900.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         54.0       45.0       41.0               40.4        21.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        ..         ..                 7.5         4.1 /a      1.1 /a
INCOME DISTR.BUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC o BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.7 /a  27.9          ***               35.0 /a   31.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           58.8 71   58.3          ***               62.0 7a   55.8
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             7. a  10.5                               3.0 77i    4.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                    1 .4           ***               10.0 71    13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LANo OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10X OF OWNERS              ..      37.1         .                45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..       0.3          .                 1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRIT ITON
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1800.0    1480.0                         11.          200         700l
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        28300 lb 1620.0/a                        3220.0 /b  5830.0        740.0  b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BEO           590.0 _E  960.0       830.0 /c           260.0 -    270.0        220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)        107.0      114.0/b  117.0                109.0       101.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              65.0       65.0-    61.0                 64.0        71.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0 /d   28.0/C         ,               39.0        32.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             12.7       9.8        8.4 /d               .         3.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       80.0      104.0     111.0                87.0      107.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     11.0       22.0      30.0                           39.0         57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             1".0       12.)       12.0               11.0        12.0        11.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     24,0       24.0          .               17.0        33.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                62.0 /e   76.0        76.0               64.0        90.0        94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.6        2.2         ..                1.0         1.3 Ic
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      76.0 /f   61.0 /d       ..               73.0 /c    40.0 /Cd
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   5. 59.0               ,,               48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                      .-      28.0         .,                8.0          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         95.0      276.0      311.0               60,0       143.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          14.0       24.0       31.0               25.0        18.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          313.0      567.0     724.0               491.0       806.0      1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               2.A        3.2        2.5                2.7          .0 
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS. ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
ROTES
Uclees otherwie noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
^ GPP par capita d-ta are based so  the World Bank Atla  methodology (1974-76 basis).
sa Recant data indicate tat total population growth has slowed to 3.2% per year since 1975.
0*0 Inco di tribution data for 1975 currently being revised.
*05* Spain has ben selected es an objective country becau-e ita par capita incee is higher then Mexico's, and because both countries have in cmnion the
Importance of tourise end the influence of nearby richer countries.
MEXICO    1960    /a  1963;    /b  Includes midwifery and nursing  nXilierias;    Ic  1962;    /d  1961-62;    /e  Six years end over;    /f  Inside only.
1970    /s  Including assistant nursea;    lb  1969-71 average;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Inside oniy.
MOST RECENT ESTIKATE:    /a  1976;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force;    /c  1971;    /d  1972.
BRAZIL    1970    /a  Economically active population;    /b  Hoopital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
CHILE      1970    /a  Gran Santiago;    Lb  Personal in goveran_t services only;    /c  DOta refer to households;    /d  Inside  nly.
SPAF1      1970    /a  Employment office estimate;        /b  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
R9, October 11, 1977
DCFINrTIOUS OP SOCIAL INDICAfDS
Land Area (thou _kb)                                                                       Poulation  etr murtine person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - Total surfsce  rea comprising land area  nd inland water,                             els  nd fmale graduate nur.sa, "treimed" or "certified" nurses, and
Aric.- Most recent estimate of agricultural area used tmporarily or pares-                   aweiliary pernoonel with training or experience.
neatly for crop, patures, markct & kitchen gardana or to lie fallow.                     Population per boapitel bed - Population divided by  asbher of hospital beds
avilable in public and private general and  peciultoed hospital asd
iNP oar copita (tIS) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing hones and etdhb talehants for
calculated by sae conversion rethod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                   cuetodial ad preventive c.re.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                Par capita supply of calories up   of requirements) - Caputed fra energy
squiw-lent of set food supplies availble in country par capita par day;
Population and vital statiatlcs                                                              avilabla supplies caprise donmstic production, imports less e.ports, and
Population (aid-year  illio)   Aj of July firat:  if not available, average                  chagee in stock; net eupplies seclde animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of rtw  end-year estimtes; 1460, 1970 ad 1975 datas                                        in fosd proceasing end losse  in distribution; requirtents ware estimated
by FAO based on physiological neada for no-ma activity and health ronaid-
Ppculation dcnaitv - ear aquars b  - Mid-yer popultion par square kilostar                  rAing engta paratur, body wights, ge and se  diatributions of
(1O0 hectares) of total area.                                                              population, end allowing 10  for waste at household level.
Population density - per square km of asri. land - Coputed as above for                    Par capits sUDPly of  rotein (gre per day) - Protein content of par capita
ogricultural land only.                                                                    net supply of food par day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ants for all countries eastabliabed by USDA Econaic Research Srvices
Vital statistics                                                                             provide for a einimu  allowance of 60 gres of total protein par day, nd
Crude birth rete per thousand. erage - Annual liv  birth. par thouaand of                    20 gress of animl and pule protein, of which 10 gras should be animal
lid-year population; ten-year  rithtic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; thee stendands are loer than those of 75 greas of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for nest recent estimate.                             and 23 grasm  of  nimal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thousand. average - Aasual death  per thousand of mid-year              in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-year arithasetic avaregea ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-              Per capita protein supply frm animal and puls  - Protein supply of food
year av-roge ending in 1975 for ms.t rerest estimste.                                      darived fra animals and pulses in gras per day.
In fant mortality rate C/thou)  A-Anua deaths of infests under one ysear of see            Death cats i/thou; eases 1-4 - Ansual deaths per thousand in oS. group 1-4
per thouasnd live births.                                                                  ye tr, to children is this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life e-pectancy at birth (r.) - Average nusber of years of life reaiing at                   malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
log countries.                                                                           Education
Gtros repocduction rate - Average number of live daughters a women will bear               Adjusted enrollaent ratio - primary schol - Enrollmnt of a11 aegs as par-
in her normal reproductive period if she axpriences present  ge-apacific                   centnge of primary scbool-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates;  aus lly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjuted for different lengths of primary educeation; for countries with
for devaloping nountrias.                                                                  universal education, enrollment may seceed 1002 aloes ses pupils are belov
PoPulation grwth rate (C) - total - Compound snnual grwth rate  of nid-yesr                  or above the official school ge.
populotion for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adjusted enrollment ratio - seondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (2) - urban - Cmputed like growth rate of total                       eduation requires at least four years of approved priary instruction;
populotion; different definitions of urban areas say affect caparability of                provides gen-rsl; vocational or taacher training ins trutions for pupils
data among coutries,                                                                       of 12 to 17 years of ege; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              Yers of schooling providad (first nd seond leele) - Total years of
definitions of urban aresa wy affect comparability of data _ng coantrisa.                  schooling; at secondary level, vocatinl instruction may be partially or
eaplately excluded.
A. structure (percent) - Children (0-14 year), workiag-ege (15-64 year),                   Vocational *nrollsent (f of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
and retired (65 years and over) as parcentages of sid-year population,                      technical, industrial or other progras which operate independently or as
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65  nd over to those                 departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate sdulta (able to read and utite) s- por-                       0
tcono-ic drpecdency ratio - Ratio of populetlon under 15 and 65 and over to                  cent.ge of total adult population aged 15 yesro and oer.
the lsbor fore. in age group of 15-64 years.
Fatly piancino - acceptors (cu-lative. thou) - Cumulative number of aceptors               Housing
of birth-control device under suapices of national fily planning progra                  Persona por roo  (urban) - Average number of persona per ron- in occupied
since inception,                                                                           conventional dwellings in urbsn areas; dwellings sxclude con-permanent
Fonily planning - jeers (. of married women) - Percentages of married women of                structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who ue birth-control d-vices to  11 married              Occupied dwellings without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwellings
woenn iL aine age group,                                                                    in urban and rural area  without inside or outside piped uster flcilities
as percentage of a11 occupied dwellings.
mployent                                                                                    Access to electricity (i  of a11 dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thouand) - Enonaically active persona, including ared                     elctricity in living qurters as percent of total dvellings in urban and
forces and uneployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                 rural areas.
in v-rioas countries are not caperable-                                                  Rural dwellings connnntad to s1actricity (2) - Ctnpoted as abovr for rural
Labor force in agriculture (%) - Agricultural labor force (in faming, forestry,               dwellings oly.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unenployed (% of labor force) - Ulnonployed are usuaIly defined as persona  who             Consuavtion
are able  nd willing to take a Job, out of a Job on a Siven day, r-nained out             Radio receivers (par thou pop) - All typee of rscsivsrs fcr radio broadcasts
of a job, and sseking work for a specified minimum period not exceeding one                 to general public per thousand of population; e.cludes unlicensed- receivers
week; my not be caparable between countries due to different definitions                    in countries and in years when registratiom of radio sets was in effect;
of uneoployed and source of data, e.g , amployent office statistics, sample                 data for recent years may not be conparable sie most countries abolished
urveys, coapulsory uneaployment mnsurace.                                                   licensing.
Pesseocer cars (par thou pop) - Passsnger cars capriss otor cars seating
Incse distribution - Percantage of private incooe (both in cash and kind)                     less than eight persona; secludes anbulasnc, hearses and  ilitary
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                 vehicles.
ho1ds.                                                                                    Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual conatanption of Industrial, canrcie.1
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours par capita, generally
Distribution of lsnd ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 10%                  baed on production dsta, without allowance for losses in grids but ally-
end pooreat 10% of land owners.                                                             ing for imports and exports of electricity.
Neweprist (kg/yr per cap) - Per c.pita n-nul coneumption in kilograms
4tind Nujtrpltiou                                                                             estimsted from domastic production plus net imports of newsprint.
p cian - Population divided by nushber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at univ-rsity lvel



P.ge 3 of 4
MEIICO - ECONOMaC DVErOPMNT DATA SREET
Actual               PYrseisiarr lEtimates        Projected                       Growth Rates              As 7. of GDY
1965       1970        1975        1976       1977        1978        1982      1966/70     1971/73    1976/82     1965     1975    1982
NATInaL AGOZOUS                                                   Constant 1972 Prices. U# MIllioos
Gross Dsatic Prodsct                     26,472.0   36,952.0   48,680.0   49,683.0   50,570.6   53,938.9   72,275.7          6.9        5.7         5.8      99.6    99.1    97.2
Gains fro- Tarts of Trade                  904.0       104.0       424.0      482.6       328.6       418.5    2,075.3   -35.1         32.5        25.5       3.4      0.9      2.8
Gross Dratic Incae                      26,576.0   37,056.0   49,104.0   50,165.6   50,899.2   54,357.4   74,351.0           6.9        5.8         6.1    100.0   100.0   100.0
IEports (including N8S)                  2,768.0    3,928.0    5,648.0    5,339.0    4,549.4    5,269.6    7,118.3           7.3        7.5         3.4      10.4    11.5       9.6
Exports (ixport capacity)                2,624.0    3,152.0    3,960.0    4,470.5    4,761.2    5,223.6    9,057.9           3.7        4.7        12.6       9.9      8.1    12.2
Resource Gap                                144.0      776.0    1,688.0        868.5     - 211.8       45.9   -1,939.6    40.1          16.8        -         0.5    -3.4    - 2.6
Coneution                               21,704.0   30,288.0   39,752.0   39,476.4   39,799.0   41,643.5   54,421.4           6.9         5.6        4.6      81.7    80.9    73.2
Irn-et.ent                               5,016.0    7,544.0   11,040.0   11,557.7   10,888.4   12,759.8   17,989.9           8.5         7.9        7.2      18.9    22.5    24.2
Gross Docastic Serings                    4,872.0    6,768.0    9,352.0   10,689.2   11,100.2   12,713.8   19,929.5          6.8         6.7        11.4     18.3    19.1    26.8
Cross National Serigs                     4,520.0    6,312.0    8,296.0    9,385.8    9,701.7   11,258,4   18,501.0          6.9         5.6        12.1     17.0    16.9    24.9
TRADS IN GOODS AND NFS                                                Current Priceg. U0# Millions                                                                Ao 7. of Total
ILPOES. TOtAL                             2,073.2    3,416.9    8,636.7    8,135.1    7,512.2    9,410.9   16,216.0    10.5              20.4        9.4    100.0   100.0   1oo,0
Food                                          5.9       74.6       443.0       140.2       223.4      220.7       302.3    66.1         42.8        -5.3      0.3      5.1      1.9
Petrolean sad Products                       26.2       54.2       291.1       291.5      358.0       415.2        -        15.7        40.0         -        1.3      3.4      -
Other Goode                               1,527.5    2,223.4    5,879.7    5,631.7    4,855.3    6,400.0   11,586.1          7.8        21.5       10.2      73.7    68.1    71.4
Nra-Factor Services                         513.6    1,064.7    2,022.9    2,063.7    2,075.5    2,375.0    4,327.6    15.7             13.7        11.5     24.8    23.4    26.7
EDOBrs. TOTAL                             l.ff4.6    2,745.5    6.081,7    6.81108    7.862.1    9.328.8   20,634.6            6.9        17.2        19.1    100. 0   100.0    10
Seleoted Agrio1ltrral Goods 1/             642.4       711.6       954.2    1,202.8    1,785.6      1,503.5    2,200.2       2.1         6.0        12.7     32.7    15.7    10,7
Petrole  and Products                       40.1    -38.4          460.1       567.5      835.4    1,687.5    7,002.1    -0.9           64.3       47.5       2.0      7.6    33.9
Selected Minerals                          189.7       244.3       457.6      456.7       509.6       593.4    1,050.1       5.2        13.4       12.6       9.7      7.5      5.1
OIa,n,faoturea                              132.5      326.9    1,069.3    1,192.0       1,410.7    1,752.1    4,035.6    19.8          26.8        20.9      6,7    17.6    19.6
Other Goe".                                153.9        26.6        63.3       46.5        52.4        61.2       117.9   -29.6         18.9         9.3      7.8      1.0      0.6
Non-Factor Seroi-oa                         806.0    1,397.7    3,077.2    3,345.3    3,268.4    3,731.1    6,228.7    11.6             17.1        10.6     41.0    50.6    30.2
TRADE INDICE1                                                              Average 1972  100
Export Price Index                           78.0       90.0       172.1       170.8      177.4       194.1       295.5      2.9        13.8         8.0      -        -        -
Import Price lodee                          75.0        87.0       153.6       152.4      165.1       178.6       227.8      3.0        12.0        5.8       -        -        -
Ter  of Trade                               104.0      103.4       112.0       112.1      107.4       108.7       129.7    -0.1          1.6         2.1      -       __       __
VALUE ADDRD BY SECT2R                                             Consteot 1972 Prices. 0S3  Millions
Primary                                   5,082.6    6,244.9     6,183.4    6,260.1    6,725.9    7,443.6    9,612.7         4.2        -0.2         6.5     19.2    12.7    13.3
S-oodqry                                 6,988.6   10,790.0   14,649.8   15,103.6   15,322.9   16,451.3   23,923.2           9.1         6.6         7.1     26.4    30.5    33.1
Tertiary                                 14,400.8   19,917.1   27,654.8   28,319.3   28,521.8   30,044.0   38,739.8          6.7         6.8         4.9     54.4    56.8    53.6
Total (GDP)                              26,472.0   36,952.0   48,688.0   49,683.0   50,570.6   53,938.9   72,275.7          6.9         5.7         5.8   1I0.0    100.0   100.0
CONSO.IDATED PUNLIC SECTORI FI7 NSS                              Constant 1972 Prices. US$ Millions                                                                A. % of GDY
C-rroot Receipts                          3,042.0    4,942.6    7,346.3    8,325.2    7,853.1    9,410.3   17,315.4    10.2              8.3        11.0     11.4    15.0    23.3
Corront Eapeoditrres                      2,329.0    3,156.4    6,222.4      6,902.5    6,643.8    7,416.7   10,652.0        6.3        14.5         6.4      8.8    12.7      14.3
Public S vings                              713.4    1,786.2    1,124.0    1,332.7    1,209.3    2,260.9    6,663.6    20.1            -8.9         25.9      2.7      2.3      9.0
Resources for 1oorotneot                    776.3    1,864.0    1,193.7      1,427.5    1,259.4    2,315.2    6,736.3    19.2           -8.5        24.8      2.9      2.4      9.1
Onveetneot                                1,741.5    2,400.5    4,485.8    4;843.7    4,425.0    5,606.0    7,880.3          6.6        13.7         7.2      6.6      9.1     10.6
Doficit (ont)                             -965.2      -536.5   -3,292.1   -3,416.2   -3,165.8   -3,290.8   -1,144.0   -11.1             43.7      -13.5      -3.6    -6.7    -1.5
ALLO&ATION OP tOENLISATRE                                                                                                                                          A. % of Total
PUP.IC SEcTOR RIPEIIDITUX85                                                                                                                                    1970     1975     1982
Agriultoro                                            8 943.2    3,Z45.5       -          _           -           -         _           _           -        8.8    15.9       -
Industry                                             3.500,3     6,880.3        -          -           -           -         -           -          -        36.3    32.4       -
Social Welfaro                              -        2,384.1    4,269,.6        -          -           _           _         _           -          _        24.7    21.0
Troosport and Co.ssnictabone                -        1103649     2,034.6        -          -           -           _         _           -           -       11.8    10.0
Goncral Adninietretios sod Others           _        1,772.3    4,202.4         -           -          _           _         _           _           _       18.4    20,7
Total                                       -        9,637.2   20,332.6         -           -          -           --                                        100.0   100.0      -
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Period A-ergo
ESELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                    1966/70    1971/75    1976/82
ICOR                                        2.91        2.89        4.99       11.10      13.02        3.23        3.41      -           _             2.90        3.63       5.76
Import Elasticiry                            0.75       1.51      - 0.52      - 2.68      -8.28        2.38        1.16      -           -             0.31        0.96      -0.64
Marginal Saviogs Ratio                      -0.16     - 0.24        0.11        0.94        0.50       0.46        0.35      -           -              0.19       0.10       0.53
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT P8R WEOR                              A. 7.Rf T.Ul   1ff-1970                      V.lnR  Add.d EW e         72
1960    1970   Grorth RSte        1960       1970       1960        1970      Grovth Rate
Agriclt-re                                 5.4      5.1    50.5      39.2      -0.6          608.8     939.9        34.7        33.0         4.4
I.duetry                                   2.1     3.0    19.6       23.1       3.6       2,468.9   4,134,9        140.6       145.0         5.3
Servicee                                   3.2     4.9    29.9       37.7       4.4        3,222.8   4,044.8       183.6       142,0         2,3
Total                                     10.7    13.0   100.0    100.0         2.0        1,755.6    2,847,6      100.0       100.0         5.0
... Not ppltceble or vailable
1/ Inoledes ugwar



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual               Preliminary Estimates                                Projections
1970           1975              1976         1977                     1978          1980             1982
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                      2,745.4         6,081.5          6,811.8       7,862.1                9,328.8        13,879.9       20,634.6
Imports (including NFS)                      3,416.9         8,636.6          8,135.1       7,512.2                9,458.7        12,256.1       16,271.5
Resource Balan1,                             - 671.5        -2,555.1         -1,323.4         349.8                - 129.9         1,623.8        4,363.1
Interest, net -                                307.0        -1,266.5         -1,872.0    -2,126.5                 -2,350.9        -2,746.6       -2,713.4
Direct Investment Income                     - 267.5        -  657.5         -  636.6      -  739.8                - 856.4        -1,135.8       -1,486.2
Workers' Remittances                            122.7           174.6            193.0         207.5                  224.1           257.7          295.1
Current Transfers, net                           55.3           123.4            146.9        157.1                   171.6           204.9          245.0
Current Account Balance                     -1,068.0        -4,181.2         -3,491.9    -2,151.7                 -2,941.3        -1,795.8           703.8
Private Direct Investment                       322.8           748.8            688.0        688.0                  777.4           983.9        1,234.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, net             258.6        3,565.8          4,906.9       3,075.1                2,467.0        -  213.4       -1,588.5
(Disbursements)                             (821.3)       (4,418.6)        (6,123.3)    (5,551.1)               (5,996.2)       (4,748.8)      (3,355.2)
(Repayments)                               (-562.7)        (-852.8)       (-1,216.4)  (-2,476.0)              (-3,529.2)       (-4.962.2    (-4,943.8)
Other Capital                                  588.7             31.7        -3,043.0       - 861.4                    21.9        1,233.3        - 133.3
(Public Short Term)                         (139.6)         (842.8)          (839.8)         -                      -            (-200.0)       (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                     (449.1)        (-811.1)        (3,882.8)      (-861.4)                 (21.9)       (1,433.3)         (66.7)
Change in Reserves (- = increase)              -102.1         -165.1             940.0    -  750.0                  -325.1          -207.5       -  373.6
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                        844.1        4,305.7           6,560.5      5,356.8
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS                                   -                    -
IBRD                                            146.8          310.0             725.0        187.0                    -              -               -
IDA                                                                                  -             -                       -
Other Multilateral                              112.3          121.8             355.1        280.0                    -              -               -
Governments                                      81.0           316.8            118.6        250.0                    -              -                -
Suppliers                                        69.7           116.7            201.9        150.0                    -              -               -
Banks and Financial Institutions               434.4         3,300.1          4,454.8       3,889.8                    -              -               -
Bonds                                            -              140.3            707.5        600.0                    -              -               -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed          3,226.9        11,095.9         16,002.9    19,078.0                                   Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                    on Dec. 31, 1977
Interest on Public Debt                      - 216.9         - 810.5         -1,069.9    -1,237.0
Repayment on Public Debt                     - 474.7         - 852.8         -1,216.4    -2,476.0                                      $ Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                     - 224.3         - 193.3         -  325.7      -  367.7
Total Debt Service (net)          2/         - 915.9        -1,856.6         -2,612.0    -4,080.7                  Public M & L.T.
Burden on Expsrt Earnings (7.) -                                                                                       Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                       24.0            26.6              32.6         46.0
b.  Total Debt Service                        31.8            29.7              37.3         50.6                IBRD                  1,456.8         7.6
c.  Total Debt Service and                                                                                       IDB                     772.7         4.0
Direct Investment Income                 44.8            40.2             46.4          59.7               Governments             853.5         4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                       Suppliers               320.8         1.7
a.  Interest as 71 of prior                                                                                      Bonds                 1,821.6         9.6
year's D.O. and D.                        7.4            10.8              9.6           7.7               Other Financial
b.  Amortization as 7 of prior                                                                                    Institutions        13,852.6        72.6
year's D.O. and D.                       16.3            11.3             11.0          15.5               Total                19,078.0       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as 'b of                    18.0           10.1               7.7          7.6
Public D.O. and D.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                        7.8             7.0              5.8           4.2
IDA Exposure                                      -               -
-  Not applicable  or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at December 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Loan                                                  Amount less
Number Year        Borrower         Purpose           Cancellations  Undisbursed
32 loans fully dis-                        1,451.4
bursed
793   1972  Nacional Financiera  Tourism                   22.0          0.6
S.A.
824   1972  Nacional Financiera  Industry                  35.0          0.0 1/
S.A.
909   1973  Nacional Financiera  Water Supply              90.0         50.8
S.A.
968   1974  Nacional Financiera  Roads                     90.0         61.1
S.A.
969   1974  Nacional Financiera  Irrigation                77.0         21.6
S.A.
970   1974  Nacional Financiera  Irrigation                47.0         43.9
S.A.
1022   1974  Nacional Financiera  Airports                  25.0         14.9
S.A.
1053   1974  Nacional Financiera  Integrated Rural
S.A.                   Development           50.0         46.5
1110   1975  Nacional Financiera  Integrated Rural
S.A.                   Development          110.0         62.0
1111   1975  Nacional Financiera  Irrigation                50.0         50.0
S.A.
1112   1975  GUANOMEX & Nacional
Financiera S.A.      Industry                50.0         26.5
1186   1975  Banco Nacional de
Obras y Servicios
Publicos S.A.        Water Supply            40.0         39.4
1205   1976  Nacional Financiera  Industry                  50.0         36.5
S.A.
1217   1976  Nacional Financiera  Agricultural and
S.A.                   Livestock Credit    125.0          49.6
1232   1976  Ferrocarriles Na-
cionales de Mexico
& Nacional Finan-
ciera S.A.           Railways               100.0         88.1
1/   Undisbursed amount is US$24,000.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
US$ Million
Loan                                                 Amount less
Number Year       Borrower         Purpose           Cancellations  Undisbursed
1420   1977  Nacional Financiera  Tourism                   42.0        42.0
S.A.
1462   1977  Nacional Financiera  Integrated Rural
S.A.                  Development           120.0        120.0
TOTAL                                      2,574.4        753.5
Of which has been repaid to the Bank         446.7
2,127.7
Total now outstanding            92.3
Amount sold                      62.3
of which has been repaid                      30.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                  2,097.7
Total Undisbursed                                         753.5
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                           US$ Million
Year          Obligor                Type of Business        Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59   Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/         Industrial Equipment       0.8    --       0.8
1958      Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5            0.5
1961      Acero Solar, S.A. 1/    Twist Drills                 0.3    --      0.3
1962/65/  Compania Fundidora
66/68     Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.          Steel                      2.3   21.4   23.7
1963      Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/         Steel                      0.9    0.1    1.0
1963      Quimica del Rey,S.A. 1/.Sodium Sulphate              0.8    --      0.8
1964/66   Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --        2.0    2.0
1970      Minera del Norte, S.A.  Iron Ore Mining              1.5    --      1.5
1971      Celanese Mexicana,S.A.  Textiles                    12.0    --    12.0
1972      Promotora de Papel
Periodico,S.A. de
C.V.                    Pulp and Paper              2/      2/     2/
1973      Cemento Veracruz          Cement                    10.5    --    10.5
1974      Cancum Aristos Hotel    Tourism                      1.0    0.2    1.2
1975      Mexinox, S.A.             Steel                     12.0    2.8   14.9
Total Gross Commitments                            42.6   26.5   69.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         16.3   22.0   38.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC 3/               26.3    4.5   30.8
Total Undisbursed
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000
3/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793 Zihuatanejo Tourism Project: $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30,1978.
After encountering some delays due largely to land acquisition
problems, the Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo project is nearing completion
with 97% of the Bank loan disbursed. The airport is open and
the physical facilities of the town have greatly improved.
The population in Zihuatanejo has grown from 4,000 to over
10,000. In the tourist zone of Ixtapa, two hotels are open
for business and several others are under construction.(Further
details in para. 41 of this Report).
Ln. No. 909 Mexico City Water Supply Project: $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half the project works as originally defined
have been completed,and the works in progress are expected to
be completed by end of 1978. The Government has proposed that
savings in carrying out some components of the projects be applied
to finance new works which would serve the objective of increasing
bulk water supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area. Also
the Government is considering revision of the bulk water rate, on
conclusion of which a recommendation on changes in the project
description will be submitted to Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 968 Seventh Highway Project: $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
About 25 percent of the works have been carried out and about
US$25 million have been disbursed. Substantial delays have
been encountered in the initiation of project works because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations.  Substantial cost
increases caused by price escalation were also encountered.
Taking this into account, a change in the scope of the project
was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975 km) to ten roads
and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which, because of cost
increases, have the same total cost as the original project.
The roads remaining in the project continue to be justified as
benefits have kept pace with costs. Works are now expected to
be completed by late 1980 or about two and a half years behind
schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Exeeutive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that,
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No.969   Rio Panuco  Irrigation Project; $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 16,000 ha were irrigated
in the previous season and about 30,000 ha are currently irrigated;
on full development the project will provide irrigation to 137,000
hectares. The technical assistance program and the land settle-
ment program are proceeding satisfactorily. However, inflation has
been greater than estimated at the time of appraisal and therefore,
project costs have risen to about US$348 million equivalent from
the original estimate of US$202 million; Government's request for
a supplementary loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 970 Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project: $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially behind
the original schedule; the pace is however, accelerating as
works for the major storage dam have now begun. About 15 percent
project works are complete and water is being supplied to 25,000
ha of the 100,000 ha to be served by the project. Total project
costs have risen from US$146 million to US$341 million because
of higher inflation than projected at. the time of appraisal
and changes in the volume of physical works. The Government's
request for a supplementary loan is under consideration.
Ln. No.1022 Airport Development Project: $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at Campe-
che. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been postponed
by the Government because of interim improvements of the exist-
ing airport carried out by the local municipality with its own
resources.  At Campeche, the Government has decided to construct
a new airport with its own funds instead of improving the
existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and Cam-
peche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project.   Works in all the
six airports are proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1053 Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project: $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. A reprogramming of the project
was begun in 1977 to adjust for these delays. The project
is presently being given priority managerial attention and
budget levels have been increased to an adequate level.
While, as a whole, the project remains behind the original
implementation schedule, some elements, most notably
extension service, are ahead of schedule. Provided the
present tempo is maintained the project would be completed
around the original closing date.
Ln. No.1110  Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I): $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking actions to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding the development
credit, agricultural extension, and farmer organization compo-
nents are being implemented. The new PIDER management is giving
priority to ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of
earlier PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being given to
strengthening effort regarding cost recovery, investment
analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural industries.
Ln. No.1111  Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975, subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of the
size and complexity of the project, its high cost and the
Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expenditures,
it would be advisable to carry out the project in several phases,
over a longer period of time than the seven years originally
visualized. As explained in Memorandum R77-305 of December 13,
1977, the loan amount has now been reduced from $150 million
to $50 million to be applied to the first phase of the project.
This first phase works would be implemented over four years.
Contracts for priority works are being placed and studies
for the remaining works under the reduced project are in
progress. A technical assistance component of the project is
under implementation.



I
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Prolect:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The devaluation of the peso in September 1976 affected the
project cost and its implementation schedule.  Preliminary
estimates indicate a capital cost increase of 36 percent in
pesos and a delay of 7 to 8 months in implementation. The
Bajio Urea Plant will be completed in June 1978, the Pajaritos
Urea Plant in June 1979 and the Parathion Plant in May 1978.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with three cities where
construction has begun. It is expected that agreements will be
signed by the end of the year with the local authorities for
four additional subprojects which would fully commit the loan funds.
funds.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
After some delays in committing resources to new projects in
late 1976 and early 1977, demand for financing for industrial
projects has strengthened and FONEI has numerous applications
on hand. As of December 31, 1977, 73 perent of the loan had
been committed.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
fully committed. The National Rural Credit Bank has been
declared eligible for rediscount under this project thereby
increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-income
producers.



Annex II
Page 8 of 8
Ln.. No.1232    Third Railway Project: $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,1979.
Execution of the project has been generally satisfactory.
Orders have been placed for rails, car components, track and
workshop machinery. Following the devaluation in 1976, and the
budgetary cuts in the stabilization period, and the slackening in
the traffic growth, the railway has proposed substantial rephasing
of its investment plan and procurementschedule, details of
which are being worked out. The execution period of the
project will require to be extended by about two years.
Operational and technical improvements of the railway continue,
though they have not yet been reflected in the financial per-
formance of the railway on account of inadequate tariff increases.
Ln No. 1420    Baia California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Though the loan is not yet effective, satisfactory progress
on implementation of the project is being made.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
The loan became effective on October 28, 1977 and implementation
is on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
MEXICO
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:           About 6 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:   FONATUR
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:          February 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:         March 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:          May 31, 1977
(f) Completion of negotiations:               January 19, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:           April 17, 1978
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.   The free limit would be US$700,000.  All equity investments would
be reviewed by the Bank. No more than US$12 million would be
allocated to FONATUR's equity investments and direct loans and
no more than US$4.5 million would be allocated to non-accommodation
operations (paras. 52 and 53).
2.   The financial intermediaries would be charged rates reflecting, on
average, the average cost of funds to the financieras (ACF) and the
final borrowers would pay interest rates reflecting , on average,
the ACF plus two percentage points. Interest rates will be periodi-
cally adjusted to reflect changes in ACF. This new interest
rates policy will be put into effect before September 1, 1978.
Not more than US$10 million of the loan would be used in respect of
subloans approved under the present interest rates regime (para.
54).
3.   FONATUR will, not later than June 30, 1979, carry out:  (i) a
study to determine the demand for trained hotel personnel and to
make recommendations for a sectoral training program; and (ii) a
study to identify means by which employment opportunities for less
skilled persons can be increased through the design and execution of
tourism projects (para. 55).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT LOAN
*/
SKEWED AMORTIZATION SCHEDULE-
Date Payment due                            Payment of Principal**/
(in US$)
On October 1, 1982                                 125,000
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1983
through October 1, 1987                     1,265,000
On April 1 and October 1, 1988                   1,980,000
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1989
through October 1, 1994                     2,560,000
On April 1, 1995                                 2,545,000
*/   Based upon a US$20 million loan from the cofinanciers with a
final maturity of 10 years, repaid in equal semi-annual pay-
ments beginning 42 months after date of signature.
**/ To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.



I BR D 13333
--,~~~~~~~-
$OURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
m -m                       IAJ~~~~~. -ON-R A      19. <0100
SWC ED 1RI                   .44 M-.7X .U:          10 .g
ROLL 00*00. I.0*001*-0.0000
01000 MAI -RAR                  0. -ORRI                  21.  -oEI                       0
- -   RILWAYs                           N- 00  00                210. 01*0*ROR
*   AIRPORTS                       T* 0000(00                     T CO 004140
(;0,;E~ ~ QV108 '4ft 2AS                                                  4k                                  X,                                       w                                   -SNEi(
ow. <ORYNO. ONN
00  ST 00 IOI1*N00120'OT                                      60
Wall00*                 20. 01,0014
-                                                                   ,1 <* 110 0<01  01 0**0                                                                                                        f                  11                                            '& X
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. M 1*0000                                         ORmB...... 0010fl
1T. 4010                   00.bS *0          (00 " 00
.2.a00..**022,..= 00                         12. 1A0203A09               37. 1000*007,L<a                                                                                                                                                                                  -W
0021  00100             _t 02                   13. 00*TM 30. 00RT 02a .00rr 2fl  200  10.T 0101000  ON *0001 NO 



