CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1524 ME
Loan Agreement
(Tourism Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
Dated March 21, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1524 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hnreinafter called the Bank)
and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to thLs Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "FONATUR" means Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo,
established by the Ley Federal de Fomento al Turismo of the
Guarantor published in the Diario Oficial on January 28, 1974 and
of which the Borrower is the trustee pursuant to a Contrato de
Fideicomiso between the Guarantor and the Borrower dated March 24,
1974; and such term includes the technical and administrative
organization, resources, staff and facilities used or to be used
by the Borrower to operate FONATUR.
(b) "Participating Institution" means: (i) any public or
private financial institution approved by the Technical Committee
of FONATUR; (ii) the Borrower or the Borrower as Trustee for
FONATUR when acting as a Participating Institution; and (iii) any
joint venture, for purposes of the Project, of two or more of such
Participating Institutions.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan
or in which the Borrower as Trustee for FONATUR proposes to make
or has made an Investment.


﻿-2-
(d) "Sub-loan" means: (i) a medium- or long-term loan made
by a Participating Institution to an Investment Enterprise for
assisting the latter in the financing of a Sub-project and to be
partially financed out of the proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan, and
(ii) a medium- or long-term loan made by the Borrower or the
Borrower as Trustee for FONATUR to an Investment Enterprise for
assisting the latter in the financing of a Sub-project and to be
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(e) "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined
in Sub-section (d) above, which qualifies as a Free-limit Sub-
loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(f) "Investment" means an investment, other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower as Trustee for
FONATUR, in an Investment Enterprise, for a Sub-project, and to
be partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made by the Borrower to
a Participating Institution to assist the latter in the financing
of a Sub-project and to be partially financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement
providing for a Subsidiary Loan.
(h) "Sub-project" means a specific tourism project financed
or to be financed in part by means of a Sub-loan or an Investment,
and to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise.
(i) "Operating Regulations" means the Reglas de Operaci6n
of FONATUR issued by the Guarantor under Article 49 of the Ley de
Turismo and published in the Diario Oficial of the Guarantor on
January 28, 1974 and the Statement of Policy approved by the
TEhnical Committee of FONATUR in respect of the operations of
FONATUR on January 25, 1978.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for 40% of the amounts paid by the Borrower
under a Sub-loan made by the Borrower or the Borrower as Trustee
for FONATUR or under an Investment or 40% of the amounts paid by
the Borrower to a Participating Institution under a Subsidiary
Loan to assist in the financing of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; provided, however,
that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan or
Investment unless the Sub-loan or Investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or the Sub-loan shall be a Free-limit
Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, a Free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-
project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $700,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Sub-
project.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise (i) before the date of this
Agreement or (ii) in respect of:
(1) an Investment or a Sub-loan made by the Borrower
acting on its own capacity or as Trustee for
F3NATUR if such expenditures when added to all
other expenditures in respect of Investments and
such Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan exceed $12,000,000 equivalent of the proceeds
of the Loan; or
(2) an Investment or a Sub-loan for a Sub-project which
is a non-accommodation Sub-project if such expendi-
tures when added to all other expenditures in
respect of Investments or Sub-loans for non-
accommodation Sub-projects financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan exceed $4,500,000 equivalent
of the proceeds of the Loan; or
(3) a Sub-loan or Investment if such expenditures when
added to any other expenditures by such Investment


﻿-4-
Enterprise financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
exceed thirty per cent (30%) of the cost of the
Sub-project concerned; or
(4) a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval or
an Investment if such expenditures shall have been
made more than one hundred and eighty (180) days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such Sub-loan or Investment
the application and information required by Section
2.03 (a) of this Agreement, or in respect of a
Free-limit Sub-loan, more than one hundred and
eighty (180) days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such Free-
limit Sub-loan the request and information required
by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement; or
(5) Sub-loans made before the first adjustment date, as
defined in Section 3.02 (c) of this Agreement, if
such expenditures when added to all other expendi-
tures in respect of such Sub-loans financed out of
the pr ceeds of the Loan exceed $10,000,000 equiva-
lent of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than
a Free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Sub-project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan or Investment; and (iii) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Sub-project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan; and (iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1980.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) Unless the context otherwise requires,
all references to the Borrower contained in this Article shall
be references to the Borrower as Trustee for FONATUR.
(b) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing the construction or expansion of such productive
tourism-related facilities in Mexico as will contribute to the
economic and social development of the country. The Project
consists in the financing of specific Sub-projects through
Sub-loans to, and Investments in, Investment Enterprises.
(c) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial stan-
dards and practices, with adequate management and personnel, and
in accordance with the Operating Regulations, and shall, at all
times, make available, promptly as needed, such funds and other
resources as shall be required for the purpose.


﻿-6-
(d) The Borrower shall, upon withdrawal, credit to the
accounts of FONATUR, for purposes of the Project, the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree:
(a) Interest on the peso portion of Subsidiary Loans and
Sub-loans made before the first adjustment date shall be payable
at the rates approved by the Technical Committee of FONATUR on
June 30, 1977 and on January 25, 1978.
(b) Interest on the peso portion of Subsidiary Loans and
Sub-loans made thereafter shall be payable:
(i) in the case of Subsidiary Loans, at variable rates
reflecting, on the average, the average cost of
borrowed funds to financieras operating 'A Mexico,
as calculated monthly by Banco de Mexico, S.A.,
such rates to be promptly adjusted whenever the
average cost of such funds to such financieras so
calculated changes a quarter of one percentage
point or more; and
(ii) in the case of Sub-loans, at variable rates re-
flecting the rates of interest on Subsidiary Loans
so adjusted plus, on the avertge, two percentage
points.
(c) For purposes of this Section: (i) "first adjustment
date" means a date not later than September 1, 1978 on which the
Technical Committee of FONATUR will adjust the rates referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section to reflect: (A) in the case of
Subsidiary Loans, on the average, the average cost of borrowed
funds to financieras operating in Mexico, as calculated by Banco
de Mexico, S.A., two months before such date, and (B) in the case
of Sub-loans the rates of interest on Subsidiary Loans so adjusted
plus, on the average, two percentage points; and (ii) "peso" means
the currency unit of the Guarantor.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall require that if a Sub-loan
or any part thereof shall be repaid to a Participating Institution
in advance of maturity, or if a Sub-loan shall be sold, trans-
ferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by a Partici-
pating Institution, such Participating Institution shall repay


﻿-7-
promptly the Borrower the amounts of the Subsidiary Loan corres-
ponding to such Sub-loan or parts thereof so repaid in advance or
disposed of for value.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment will be
made on terms whereby a Participating Institution or the Borrower
shall obtain, by written contract with an Investment Enterprise or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Participating Institution,
including, in the case of any Sub-loan and to the extent that it
shall be appropriate in the case of any Investment the right
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Sub-project with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or
Investment shall oe purchased at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them and (B) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project; (iii) inspect,
by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the Bank
shall so request, and the Borrower, such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and that such insurdnce cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of
use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information
as the Borrower or the Participating Institution shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or Investment
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform any of its
obligations under its contract with the Participating Institution
or the Borrower.


﻿-8-
(b). The Borrower shall exercise its rights, and cause each
Participating Institution to exercise its rights, in relation to
each Sub-project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank, the Borrower and the Participating Institution; (ii)
comply with its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Sub-projects, and the
Sub-loans and Investments.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project to identify the goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use
in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than one year after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
and the Borrower shall agree, on the execution and operation of
the Project, its cost and benefits, the performance by the Bor-
rower as Trustee for FONATUR, the Participating Institutions, and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall pay itself out of FONATUR's
accounts such amounts as shall be equivalent to the amounts paid
by the Borrower to the Bank on account of repayment of principal
of, and payments of interest and other charges on, the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not later than June 30,
1979, carry out:
(i) a study to determine the demand for trained hotel
personnel and to make recommendations for a sec-
toral training program, including training cur-
ricula; and


﻿-9-
(ii) a study to identify means by which employment
opportunities for less skilled persons can be
increased through the design and execution of
tourism projects.
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment on the terms of reference for, and recommendations made
in, such studies.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower, as Trustee for FONATUR, shall
maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Sub-project and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of FONATUR.
Section 4.02. The Borrower, as Trustee for FONATUR, shall:
(i) make or cause to be made an annual audit satisfactory to the
Bank of FONATUR's accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent and qualified
auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in
any case not later than five months af ter the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
FONATUR and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt or the assets of FONATUR as security for any
debt, except as otherwise stated to the Bank in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any external debt or the assets
of FONATUR as security for any debt, such lien will ipso facto
equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,


﻿-10-
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the crealtion
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect:, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing pirovi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre.ated
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as secirity
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B)
any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transact:ions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) a change shall have been made in any legal instrument
under which FONATUR has been established which would materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the
financial condition of FONATUR;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Operating Regula-
tions which would materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of the Project; and
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of FONATUR.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be


﻿- 11 -
furnished to the Bank, namely, that all necessary acts, consents
and approvals to be performed or given by the Guarantor, its
political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any poli-
tical subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to perform all of the covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions of the Borrower in the Loan Agreement contained, together
with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given for
said purpose.
Section 6.02. The date of May 22, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Cat6lica 51
M6xico 1, D.F.
M6xico
Cable address:               Telex:
NAFIN                        NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                  Mexico City


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
By /s/ Jorge Espinosa de los Reyes
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1982                  1,925,000
through October 1, 1994
On April 1, 1995                                1,875,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.80%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen years
before maturity                              6.55%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.45%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions
of the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The words "and Sub-projects" is added after the words
"the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement, no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


