Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7507-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 339.8 MILLION (US$ 300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ROMANIA
April 15, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of April 11, 2002)
Currency Unit     =        Leu (plural Lei)
I Leu                      100 bani
IJS$ l            =        32,907 Lei
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA-FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
Vice President            Johannes F. Linn
Country Director          Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director           Paul Siegelbaum
Acting Sector Manager     Khaled Sherif
Program Team Leader       Rodrigo A. Chaves



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANRE          -      Agency for Electricity and Heat
ANRGN         -      Agency for Oil and Gas
APAPS         -      Authority for Privatization and Management of State Ownership
AVAB          -      Autoritatea pentru Valorificareaa Activelor Bancare (Bank Resolution
Authority)
BA            -      Banca Agricola
BCR           -      Romanian Commercial Bank
BSE           -      Bucharest Stock Exchange
CASPIS        -      Commission for Poverty Reduction & Social Inclusion
CEC Bank      -      Savings Bank
CFAA          -      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CNVM          -      National Securities Commission
CSS           -      Credit Scoring System
DFID          -      Department for Intemational Development (UK)
DGF           -      Deposit Guaranty Fund
EBRD          -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EUJ           -      European Union
EXIM Bank     -      Export-Import Bank of Romania
FDI           -      Foreign Direct Investment
FESAL         -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan
FIAS          -      Foreign Investrnent Advisory Service
FNI           -      National Investment Fund
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GOR           -      Govemment of Romania
IDP           -      Industrial Development Project
ISC           -      Insurance Supervision Commission
IAS           -      Intemational Accounting Standards
LSMS          -      Living Standard Measurement Survey
LVPP          -      Large Value Payment Process
MEBOs         -      Management and Employee Buyouts
MoPF          -      Ministry of Public Finance
NBR           -      National Bank of Romania
OECD          -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PSAL          -      Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PIBL          -      Private Sector Institution Building Loan
PPIBL         -      Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
RASDAQ        -      Romanian Electronic Trading System
RICOP         -      Enterprise Restructuring and Employment Conversion Program
RTGS          -      Real Time Gross Settlement
SAL           -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA           -      Stand-By A}rangement
SEA           -      Standards of Extemal Audit
SMEs          -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SOEs          -      State-Owned Enterprises
SOF           -      State Ownership Fund
TA            -      Technical Assistance
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
VAT           -      Value Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



4



ROMANIA
SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Government of Romania
Amount:                   Bank Loan for EUR 339.8 million (US$ 300 million)
Terms:                    Single currency loan at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based
interest rate, with a proposed 5-year grace period and a 17-year
maturity.
Commitment Fee:           Bank's standard commitment fee of 0.75 percent on undisbursed
loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The proposed adjustment program will build on and complement
the financial and enterprise sector reforms already undertaken by
the Government, supported by the World Bank and the First
Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL 1). The loan will pursue
five key development objectives: (i) the exit of public banks from
government ownership through privatization and other options
acceptable to the Bank, accompanied by measures to strengthen
the overall environment for private sector banking and financial
sector modernization; (ii) divestiture of the largest public sector
industrial and commercial loss-makers from the government
portfolio. This divestiture will be accompanied by other measures
to complete privatization of pools of enterprises and joint
ventures, to ensure that privatization procedures are transparent,
fair and properly scrutinized so that the residual effects of
privatization do not serve as an obstacle to future privatization
transactions as needed; (iii) reform of the energy sector to
introduce modem management principles and sound regulation to
ensure that utility companies (e.g., electricity, gas) are not used as
a source of cross-subsidization and soft credit (through arrears)
that forestalls needed restructuring of enterprises. This reform
will be accompanied by the adoption of the necessary legal and
regulatory framework for private sector participation, increasing
prices towards cost recovery levels, ensuring consistency and
transparency in tariff structures, and increasing collections for
sustainable operations, needed reinvestment, and higher quality
service delivery; (iv) strengthening of the business environment
by the removal of administrative barriers that impede investment
and trade, the removal of most special funds for fiscal
5



consolidation and transparency, and a strengthening of
accounting, governance and bankruptcy standards and practices
for a more competitive private sector-oriented economy; and (v)
provision of meaningful social protection for those displaced by
restructuring  and  privatization  and  strengthening  the
effectiveness of the social safety net in the long term.
Benefits:                 Implementation of continued structural reforms in the enterprise
and financial sectors under the proposed loan will enhance
Romania's prospects for growth and will reinforce the
sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization. Resources from
this and other Bank loans will mitigate the social costs of
restructuring for those displaced by restructuring and
privatization. These measures are consistent with Romania's
quest to accede to the European Union (EU), a goal which
provides an important incentive for the Government to pursue
difficult reforms.
Risks:                    The proposed operation faces four basic risks: (i) macroeconomic
instability; (ii) social costs of reform; (iii) capacity to implement
complex reforms; and (iv) public perception of privatization.
These are essentially risks that could slow implementation of the
program, or even lead to a reversal of policy direction. The first
risk is that the political costs of implementing reforms may be
too high and lead to a slowdown in the program if further
tightening of monetary or fiscal policy is required. It is believed,
however, that the current macroeconomic program will meet
targets for inflation, the budget and the current account even in
face of the uncertain external economic environment. The second
risk is associated with the potential social cost of the operation,
arising largely from the expected large job loses resulting from
privatization. Proceeds from the proposed loan will be used to
mitigate this risk through targeted assistance for social program
equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP, or about US $152 million in
2001. A third risk is the capacity of the Govemment to
implement effectively a complex, multi-component program
involving many institutions and covering a wide range of issues.
To mitigate this risk, the Government has established a Project
Management Unit to guide implementation of the program and
will use international expertise in key program areas with
financing from the proposed companion project, the Private and
Public Sector Institution Building Loan (PPIBL). A related risk is
the issue of govemance, particularly with respect to privatization.
The Government recognizes the need for complete transparency
in the privatization process and has asked for technical assistance
6



to help in the evaluation of privatization tenders. Moreover, the
Bank will monitor the privatization process carefully. The final
risk is the potential adverse public reaction if foreign buyers
figure prominently in the purchase of state-owned enterprises
(SOEs). However, given broad public recognition of the need for
outside investment and increased foreign, this risk appears
manageable.
Schedule of Disbursements:  Two tranches: the first to be disbursed immediately after loan
effectiveness; the second is floating, to be disbursed after the
conditions specified in the Loan Agreement have been fulfilled.
Poverty Category:         Not applicable
Rate of Return:           Not applicable
Environmental Category:   Not applicable
Project ID Number:        RO- P067575
Map
This operation was prepared by a Team comprising Rodrigo A. Chaves (Program Team Leader/
Lead Financial Economist), Khaled Sherif (Acting Sector Manager), M. Ziad Alahdad (Country
Manager and Chief of Romania Country Office), James Dick R. Welch (Senior Privatization
Specialist), Ramin Shojai (Private Sector Development Specialist), Arabela Negulescu (Deputy
Chief of Romania Country Office/Senior Private Sector Development Specialist), Doina Visa
(Private Sector Development Specialist), Marcelo Bueno (Financial Sector Consultant),
Alexander Pankov (Private Sector Analyst), Tatiana Segal (Operations Analyst), William Porter
(Senior Energy Sector Specialist), Varadarajan Atur (Senior Financial Analyst), John A. hInes
(Principal Social Sector Specialist), Carlos Cavalcanti (Senior Country Economist), Alexandra
Gross (Private Sector Consultant), James Lacey (Banking Consultant), Lachlan Seward (Bank
Infrastructure-Consultant), William Reid (Capital Market Consultant), Michael Borish (Financial
Sector Consultant), Galia Kondova (Financial Analyst), Nadia Sirghi (Consultant), Sorin
Teodoru (Banking Analyst), Richard Florescu (Senior Social Sector Specialist), Leonica Serban
(Business Environment Consultant) and Hiran Herat (Senior Financial Analyst). The team would
like to thank the International Monetary Fund's Romania Team and the Delegation of the
European Commission in Bucharest for their collaboration.
7



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO ROMANIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I. THE ECONOMY .............................................................9
A. Recent Economic Developments ............................................................. 9
B. Macroeconomic Prospects and Financing ......................................................... 11
II. ROMANIA'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORM PROGRAM ....................................... 13
A. Enterprise, Financial and Energy Sector Reforms ............................................ 14
B. The Business Environment ............................................................  17
C. Social Protection and Poverty Reduction .......................................................... 18
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN ............................................................           20
A. Description and Objectives ............................................................  20
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................................................   22
C. Links to the Country Assistance Strategy .......................................................... 22
D. Benefits and Risks ............................................................  25
E. First and Second Tranche Release ............................................................   28
F. Implementation ............................................................  39
G. Loan Administration ............................................................  40
H. Poverty Inplications ............................................................  41
I. Environmental Impact ............................................................  43
IV. BANK OPERATIONS ............................................................              45
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMEF AND OTHER DONORS .................................................... 46
VI. RECOMMENDATION ............................................................               46
Annex 1. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS ............................................................   48
Annex 2. TIME TABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS ........................................... 50
Annex 3. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY ......................................................... 51
Annex 4. POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX .................................................... 81
Annex 5. COUNTRY AT A GLANCE. STATUS OF IBRD PORTFOLIO.
STATUS OF IFC PORTFOLIO ............................................................   93
Annex 6. MAP ............................................................              94
8



REPORT AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO ROMANIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL II) to the Government of Romania (GOR) for
EUR 339.8 million (US$ 300 million) to support the Government's structural reform program.
The loan is at the Bank's standard LIBOR interest rate, with a proposed 5-year grace period and a
17-year maturity. The total amount will be disbursed in two tranches: the first, for EUR 169.9
million (US$ 150 million), upon loan effectiveness; and the second, for EUR 169.9 million (US$
150 million), when all second tranche conditions have been met.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Recent Economic Developments
2.    After three years of real GDP decline, the Romanian economy began growing in 2000 and
was projected to reach 4.9 percent real GDP growth by end-2001. The economic recovery has
been driven by strong growth in exports, primarily the re-export of processed inputs from EU
countries and expansionary policies pursued during the run up to the elections of November. 2000
and its aftermath. Although these policies led to a widening of the current account deficit in the
first half of 2001, this widening recently slowed in response to actions taken by the new
Government to limit fiscal expansion, accelerate privatization, and reduce losses of utility
enterprises. These actions should increase the likelihood that current GDP growth will be
sustained by export growth, minimizing the risk of a reversal in the recovery process. The actions
should also allow Romania to withstand the current world economic slowdown, as progress in
structural reforms and the prospect of EU accession continue to provide the country continued
access to foreign investment flows and international capital markets. On the demand side,
however, any further weakening of export demand by EU trading partners could result in
somewhat lower growth than currently projected.
3.    This section highlights developments in the real economy and their link with the
Government's economic reform program and the external enviromnent. These links are
important because the Government still controls much of the economy, as state-owned
enterprises account for around three-quarters of industrial sector employment and state banks
account for about one-half of banking sector assets. Under these circumstances the country's
ability to access international capital markets is strongly dependent on the international
community's confidence in the Government's commitment to economic reforms.
4.    The close link between developments in the real economy, the Government's reform
program, and external developments is illustrated by the change in the direction of Romania's
economic growth during the course of 2000. In the first half of the year, most of the 4.9 percent
real GDP growth was driven by the strong growth in private consumption and higher investment.
Real household consumption was up 7.6 percent in the first six months of the year boosted by
9



strong growth in real wages following wage hikes ahead of the November 2000 elections. Real
aggregate investment rose 4.2 percent in the first half of the year (real growth fixed capital
formation increased 6.7 percent) largely due to the easing of quasi-fiscal constraints, the abolition
of import duties and VAT on imported investment goods, and renewed access to international
capital markets. This robust growth of consumption and investment spending was accompanied
by strong growth in imports, which increased 29 percent in real terms in the first half of the year,
against a 21 percent real growth recorded by exports. By September, however, tighter fiscal
policy and increases in energy tariffs led to a slowdown in domestic demand growth, resulting in
export growth that outpaced import demand for the first time in the year. The improvement in the
balance of payments was facilitated by falling oil prices and a large grain surplus in 2001. These
factors combined should allow the current account deficit to stay within the 6 percent of GDP
projection for the year, and-in the absence of external shocks-to remain below that level for
the foreseeable future (Table 1).
Table 1. Romania: Selected Economic Indicators, 1999-2005
1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Actual                 Projections
Real GDP growth (°/O)               -2.3   1.6    4.5    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Gross Domestic Product
(US$ rnillion, current prices)   35,828 36,839  38,399 40,964 43,404 46,292 49,420
Current Account Balance (US$ million)  -1,296  -1,363  -2,304  -2,294  -2,257  -2,361  -2,471
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)  -3.7  -3.7   -6.0   -5.6   -5.2   -5.1   -5.0
Exports (US$ rnillion)            8,487  10,366  11,819 12,699  13,397  14,067  14,770
Imports (US$ million)             10,557  12,050  14,600  15,738  16,564  17,434  18,349
General Government Budget Balance
(% of GDP)                         -1.9    4.0   -3.5   -3.0   -3.0   -2.8   -2.6
External Debt (US$ million)       9,602  9,873  11,328  12,453  13,282  14,304  15,518
External Debt (% of GDP)           26.8   26.8   29.5   30.4   30.6   30.9   31.4
Inflation (CPI, period average)    45.8   45.7   34.1   26.0   17.5   11.1    7.2
Source: Romanian authorities and International Monetary Fund. World Bank staff calculations.
5.    The Government's ability to sustain the recent tightening of fiscal policy is key for
realizing the scenario presented in Table 1. The developments on the fiscal front are encouraging.
The 2001 consolidated fiscal deficit target was revised downwards from 3.7 percent to 3.5
percent of GDP, compared to 4 percent of GDP in 2000, on account of tighter expenditure
control and better-than-expected revenue performance. The Government has maintained the
momentum on fiscal management by drafting a 2002 budget with a 3 percent of GDP deficit and
winning approval for this budget in Parliament on November 14. This is the first time since the
beginning of the transition that the state budget has been approved by Parliament before the end
of the calendar year. The true test of the Government's fiscal management of course will occur
during budget implementation stage. Particularly close attention will need to be paid to
expenditure management, since revenue performnance may be affected by somewhat lower GDP
growth than currently projected if growth in the rest of Europe continues to slow.
6.     The Govermnent's ability to enforce discipline among SOEs is as important as its efforts
on the fiscal side. In the past, quasi-fiscal deficits have overwhelmed economic programs,
leading to fiscal and balance of payment problems. The Government has now tightened the
10



budget constraint on SOEs by eliminating preferential access to the banking sector. Indeed,
following the 1999 balance of payments crisis, when international capital markets closed for
Romania, the Government confronted the problem of non-performing loans in the banking sector
through an aggressive program of privatization and liquidation of state-owned banks.
7.    After reducing the role of banks as a source of implicit subsidies for SOEs, Government
attention is now focused the energy sector, where low energy tariffs and poor payment
enforcement tend to benefit large, loss-making SOEs. Energy tariffs (electricity, district heating
and gas) have been increased and measures have been put into place, such as the establishment of
escrow accounts, to improve payment discipline. These increases in energy tariffs began during
the summer and early fall of 2001 and are expected to continue through the spring of 2002.
Meanwhile, to mitigate the impact of these adjustments on poorer households, the Government
has introduced a minimum income guarantee program and a targeted heating subsidy.
8.    Notwithstanding the increases in energy tariffs, the 30 percent end-year inflation target is
expected to be met. In October, year-on-year inflation already stood at 30 percent, down from 40
percent at the end of 2000. The lower inflation rates are due to prudent fiscal policy, lower food
prices, and less volatility in the exchange rate, which is still an important nominal anchor for
inflation expectations. The 2002 end-year inflation target of 22 percent is also achievable, even
after accounting for hikes in energy tariffs, due to lower oil import prices and expected continued
exchange rate stability.
B. Macroeconomic Prospects and Financing
9.    Real GDP growth was projected to reach 4.5 percent by the end of 2001 and remain in the
5 percent range between 2002 and 2005. This growth performance is expected to be sustained by
continued growth in exports and renewed private sector investment. Exports are projected to rise
annually at an average of 8 to 9 percent, slightly outpacing import growth, and private sector
investment is expected to increase annually by around 2.25 percent during the projection period,
accounting for most of the aggregate investment growth between 2001 and 2005. While
sustained growth implies that the country's extemal financing requirements will remain high,
strong export performance and prudent fiscal policy should allow the current account deficit to
remain manageable. The current account deficit is projected to reduce gradually from about 6
percent of GDP in 2001 to about 5 percent in 2005, while the fiscal deficit will decline from 3.5
percent to about 2.6 percent over the same period. Although extemal financing requirements will
grow gradually from about US$ 5.3 billion in 2001 to about US$ 6 billion in 2005 (Table 2), the
total debt to GDP ratio is projected to remain low, rising to 33.2 percent in 2005, up from 29.8
percent in 2001. While public sector borrowing will continue to be the primary source of extemal
financing, foreign direct investment and private borrowing are expected to grow in importance
over the period.
10.   The key for implementing the Govemment's extemal financing program is the IMF
program, which has been in place since October 31, 2001. The IMF's new 18-month standby
facility, in the amount of SDR 300 million, is designed to allow foreign exchange reserves to rise
faster than imports, raising import coverage to 3.9 months by 2005, allowing the country to
11



leverage much needed financing from other official sources and the international capital markets.
Staying on track with the IMF program will require Government actions on several fronts. These
include limiting the fiscal deficit through prudent expenditure policies, increased effort on tax
compliance, restraint in public sector wage increases, and reduced cross-subsidization within the
state sector. It also includes policies to encourage private sector development by sustaining
monetary discipline while reducing mandatory reserve requirements for banks. This should allow
a reformed banking system to provide needed financing to the emerging private sector.
Successful implementation of the program agreed is important not only to set the country on a
sustainable growth path, but also because the IMF has indicated a willingness to provide further
access to funding in the event of a worsening external environment.
11.   The external financing scenario presented in Table 2 is contingent on staying on course
with the stabilization and structural reform elements of the Government's economic program.
Underlying these projections is the assumption of visible progress on privatization, allowing the
country to attract foreign direct investment and the Government to keep state enterprise
operations under control, limiting the public sector's financing requirements. The Bank has
worked closely with the Government in designing this reform program, addressing several angles
of the relation between the Government and state enterprises. These include ending implicit
subsidies coming from the state banking system and the public utility companies, as well as the
need to facilitate the transition of workers from old to new jobs by providing a social safety net
and by encouraging the development of a vibrant business environment. Since implementing this
program will entail several one-time expenditures, the financing available under PSAL II will be
a critical element of the Government's economic reform program.
12.   The scenario presented in Table 1 and Table 2 is ambitious but realistic. It assumes that
the Government can maintain the new-found macroeconomic stability by tackling the sources of
quasi-fiscal deficits coming from SOEs, limiting the need for much further tightening of
monetary and fiscal policy. It also assumes that the Government is able to go forward with
planned structural reforms quickly and effectively. The sequencing and timing of the actions in
the reform program have been carefully considered. There is a risk, however, that the
Government's ability to sustain reform momentum could be severely tested if the macroeconomic
environment were to require significant further tightening, or if the external environment and
growth in its main EU trading partners in particular were to slow down further.
12



Table 2: Romania's External Financing Requirements and Sources, 2000-2005
(US$ million)                 Actual Projections
2000   2001    2002    2003     2004    2005
Overall External Financing      -4,085  -5,324  -5,204  -5,502  -5,682  -6,023
Requirements
Current Account Deficit    -1,363  -2,295  -2,294   -2,261  -2,368  -2,478
Principal Repayments       -1,188  -1,540  -2,113   -2,188  -2,512  -2,677
Increase in Reserves       -1,534  -1,489   -797    -1,053   -802   -868
Overall Financing Sources        4,085  5,010   4,842    5,395   5,682  6,023
Foreign Direct Investment   1,072  1,219   1,457    1,825   1,667   1,687
Public Sector Borrowing'    1,629  2,147   1,960    1,984   2,244  2,364
Private Sector Borrowing     894     841   1,075    1,236   1,422   1,621
Other Financing Flows (net)2  490    803     350      350     350    350
Financing Gap                  0    -314    -361     -107      0       0
Source: Romanian Authorities and International Monetary Fund. World Bank staff calculations.
1) Bonds and long-term loans. Includes public enterprises.
2) Includes errors and omissions.
II. ROMANIA'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL REFORM PROGRAM
13.   Romania's prospects for sustaining its solid growth performance of the last two years
hinge on the Government's continued success with its economic and social reform program. The
program aims to solve the most pressing problems in the state-dominated enterprise, finance, and
energy sectors. If the Government does not address these problems in the near future, they will
reverse the recent hard-won gains, stunt growth prospects, threaten still fragile macroeconomic
stability, and frustrate Government efforts to reduce poverty and improve social assistance.
Specifically, the problems are: (i) continued poor performance of SOEs; (ii) incomplete financial
sector reform; and (iii) financial distress in public utilities due to low tariffs and poor payment
discipline. These problems form an "iron triangle" that corrals the Romanian economy and
weakens its ability to sustain growth, create jobs, and provide opportunity and security to all
Romanian citizens.
(i) In the enterprise sector, the Government's inability to control losses in SOEs has
served to destabilize the economy. In response to the mounting losses, the
Government launched a privatization program in 1999, and progress has been made
over the last two years with the privatization or liquidation of more than 2,000 SOEs.
Nonetheless, at the beginning of 2001, Romania had less than 600 SOEs in which it
holds a majority position.
(ii) The financial sector was dominated by state-owned banks until 1999. These banks
channeled resources to loss-making SOEs and suffered from frequent Government
intervention and a lack of basic banking skills. The resulting losses were
unsustainable and, in 1999, the Government launched major institutional and
structural reforms of the sector. The reforms have fundamentally transformed the
13



sector by removing the license of the main state bank conduit for such soft and
directed lending, and have significantly reduced the general access of SOEs to this
traditional source of soft credit from the three remaining state banks. However, the
reforms are incomplete, both in terms of privatizing state-owned banks and creating
the legal and institutional framework for a vibrant full-service financial sector.
(iii) Public energy utilities face a series of difficulties. They are inefficient, drained by
low tariff structures and poor payment discipline, and are struggling to maintain
service levels. More, they have taken over the role of cross-subsidizing loss-making
SOEs as soft credits from the financial sector dried up and other hard budget
constraints began to press. Such cross-subsidization has slowed needed restructuring,
distorted the competitive environment, and perpetuated problems with energy supply
and service delivery. The Government in 1999 began restructuring the energy sector
and it has moved to increase tariffs and improve collections. These efforts now take
on greater urgency given the added pressure of cross-subsidizing SOEs.
14.   The relentless stream of losses from SOEs is the unfortunate link that binds the three
sectors together. The losses absorb scarce resources from banks and utilities that could be
invested more profitably elsewhere, thereby dulling prospects for future economic growth, and
weakening the financial and energy sectors. Moreover, as noted above, they complicate efforts to
sustain macroeconomic management through their impact on the current account, the budget, and
external balances. Finally, they divert Government funds away from crucial social services and
assistance programs, particularly for the poor.
15.   The program's assault on the problems in these three sectors is buttressed by supporting
reforms to improve the business environment and to strengthen the social safety net. This is
being done not only to cope with the short-term employment consequences of the foregoing
reforms, but also to improve the Government's longer-term capacity to assist the poor and
disadvantaged.
A. Enterprise, Financial and Energy Sector Reforms
The State Enterprise Sector
16.   The high degree of state ownership in the enterprise sector in Romania, particularly when
combined with state ownership of the largest banks, has perpetuated an ineffective incentive
structure that has undermined economic competitiveness and stability and has harmed growth.
The Government has long recognized the need to cut state ownership of enterprises and,
beginning in 1999 with support under PSAL I, it moved aggressively to privatize or liquidate a
range of SOEs, close down non-viable and environmentally damaging mines, and establish the
regulatory basis for the liberalization and self-sustaining operations of many utilities.
17.   The Government's privatization efforts involved more than 1,500 SOEs in 1999 and
another 700 in 2000 using a variety of methods-case-by-case sales, pool sales, and sales
undertaken directly by the State Ownership Fund. With regard to loss reduction and privatization
for national companies and regies autonomes, the Government achieved loss reductions at seven
14



mining companies of US$ 125 million in 2000 against US$ 139 million in 1999 and US$ 176
million in 1998. Loss reduction at the three coal mining companies was even more substantial,
declining to US$ 34 million in 2000 from US$ 125 million in 1998. To date, 279 mines have
been closed. Of these, 84 have had environmental work concluded or initiated. These efforts have
helped to rationalize the mining sector, reduce budgetary costs, and provide environmental clean-
up to damaged areas. They have been combined with social assistance and training to mitigate
the costs of privatization, closure and restructuring for laid-off workers.
18.   The extent of privatization and restructuring of SOEs to date has been impressive.
Nonetheless, there are still about 600 SOEs yet to be privatized. Thus, the Government aims to
complete the ambitious privatization program begun under PSAL I, namely the completion of
large enterprise privatization, and to do so in a manner that is fully transparent and accountable.
To this end, it signed a privatization deal for its steel mill, SIDEX, with a strategic investor in
July 2001 (with conclusion of the deal in November 2001). The Government is now focused on
the privatization of the remaining large state-owned firms such as ALRO and ALPROM, and the
restructuring of TAROM with a targeted loss-containment strategy (not to exceed US$ 33 million
in 2002 and US$20million in 2003). It is also committed to the privatization of eight large SOEs
and the workout of another five. Other planned reforms include finishing up earlier pool
privatization and workouts and introducing new pools, concluding privatizations of large joint
ventures, and carrying out privatizations and liquidations in the SME sector as well as for
selected large enterprises under the direction of the Authority for Privatization and Management
of State Ownership (APAPS).
19.   Perhaps even more important than the completion of these privatization transactions will
be the Government's approach to carrying out the transactions. The Government recognizes the
criticism that it has faced from earlier transactions. Non-transparency weakened Romania's
reputation with offshore investors and caused problems domestically with firms that lost out on
bids under uncertain circumstances. To correct this problem and to provide greater accountability
for how privatization transactions are handled, the Government plans to introduce procedures
that rely on more open disclosure for the large companies to be offered for sale, privatized or
worked out, as well as pools of companies for privatization. The Bank's role in the privatization
process will involve monitoring closely the progress of implementation without directly
influencing the decision-making process.
The Financial Sector
20.   Until 1999, Romania's financial sector was mostly state-owned, with state-owned banks
accounting for about three quarters of balance sheet stock of the banking system and about 70
percent of total loans. The state-owned banks suffered from years of Government interference,
directed lending, and a host of management and institutional weaknesses. By 1998-99, these
weaknesses made the situation in the financial sector untenable in face of the economy's overall
deterioration. Against this backdrop, the Government launched comprehensive institutional and
structural reforms in the sector with the support of PSAL I. The reforms were designed to move
Romania closer to a market-based system and eliminate the sector as a source of financing for
loss-making SOEs.
15



21.   A core element of the Government's program was privatization and restructuring of the
banking system. Bancorex, Romania's largest and most troubled bank, was liquidated, thereby
breaking the web of directed lending that posed the greatest systemic risk to monetary stability,
the balance of payments, and the health of the banking system. In addition, the restructuring of
other major banks-namely, Banca Agricola (BA) and Banca Comerciala Romana (BCR)-
began, while two smaller state-owned banks-the Romanian Development Bank and Banc
Post-were privatized with direct investment from strategic investors. Recent balance sheet
figures show the impact of these reforms. State-owned banks now account for only about half of
assets, deposits and capital, and about one-third of net loans in the system. The restructuring and
privatization of the banks was accompanied by a series of other legal and institutional reforms,
including: (i) a strengthened institutional framework for the orderly disposal and resolution of
non-performing assets (though the establishment of an asset resolution authority Autoritatea
pentru Valorificarea Activelor Bancare - (AVAB); (ii) improved compliance with National Bank
of Romania (NBR) prudential regulations, specifically the imposition of mandatory external
audits based on international accounting standards (IAS), and loan loss provisioning based on
regulations on credit classification, specific risk provisions, and monthly reporting requirements;
(iii) increased institutional capacity of the NBR to supervise and provide regulatory oversight to
the banking system; (iv) augmented capacity of the accounting and audit professions; (v)
strengthened NBR requirements for risk classification of bank portfolios and tougher
provisioning requirements; and (vi) stepped-up efforts to develop a Government securities
market, as well as a computerized system for settling and clearing government securities.
22.   These measures have succeeded in restructuring Romania's financial sector and have set
it on the course to achieving international standards. However, with a continued high level of
public sector involvement in the commercial banking system, further privatization and
restructuring is required. In addition, further measures are required to develop a well functioning
financial services sector. Thus, the Government's main objective in the sector is to bring an end
to public sector banking and to ensure that incentives for a competitive and modern financial
system are in place, especially as Romania proceeds with negotiations for EU accession. As a
start, the Government recently completed the privatization of BA and intends to complete the
privatization of BCR and the Savings Bank, CEC (after needed restructuring), and the EXIM
bank restructuring program. The Government also plans measures to strengthen the legal and
regulatory framework, enhance banking sector infrastructure (i.e., payment systems,
accounting/audit framework, deposit insurance, credit information bureau/credit scoring system),
improve the functioning of the Government securities market, develop the capital markets for
debt and equity instruments under proper supervision, and develop the Insurance Supervision
Commission. When these changes are implemented, the Government will have exited from
banking and a fully private financial sector will have emerged.
Energy Sector Reform
23.   Utility companies have long suffered from low tariffs and poor payrnent discipline, which
have resulted in the build-up of arrears and often provide cross subsidies to inefficient SOEs. The
arrears issue has become particularly problematic in recent years as other sources of
16



subsidization, such as directed credit from the banking sector, have dried up. To address this
problem, the Government produced an action plan for the liberalization of network industries to
outline more modem approaches to the regulatory framework for the electricity and heat,
telecommunications, railways, and oil and gas sectors. This plan includes the establishment of
independent regulatory agencies and privatization in these sectors. In the energy sector, the plan
includes enhancing independence of the regulatory agencies for electricity and heat (ANRE) and
oil and gas (ANRGN), and privatization of electricity generation and distribution as well as gas
distribution. The Government appointed BNP-Paribas as advisors for privatization of two
electricity distribution companies. The privatizations are ongoing and need to be completed as
part of the reform process. The Government is also working to sell at least 51 percent of Petrom.
24.   While good progress has been made in the energy sector, further efforts are required to
complete the reform process. These include rationalization of the power sector and related energy
industries to eliminate cross-subsidization by gas and electricity distributors and other energy
suppliers of weak state enterprises. The Government has set targets to increase receivables and
payables turnover (reducing arrears) to eliminate the financial blockages that are now prevalent
in the sector. Electricity and district heating tariffs were raised by 15 and 50 percent, respectively,
in July and in August, and the gas tariff for households was increased by 90 percent. Further
tariff increases are planned in the coming months. At the same time, the Government introduced
a heating subsidy to mitigate the impact of these adjustments on poorer households, and
beginning in January 2002 has put in place a means-tested minimum income guarantee scheme
aimed at providing a social safety net for the most vulnerable households. In addition, the
Government is preparing the legal and regulatory framework for private sector participation in
the energy sector, increasing prices and reducing arrears in the oil and gas sectors, and initiating
efforts in other energy sectors to ensure that cross-subsidization and arrears are brought under
control. Finally, the Government intends to review the tax regime for oil and gas, privatize
Petrom and gas distribution companies by attracting international investors, and reform the
transmission and distribution of electricity.
B. The Business Environment
25.   During the last decade, foreign direct investment per capita in Romania lagged behind
most other countries in the region except for Albania, Bulgaria, and FYR Macedonia. Given
Romania's competitive exchange rate, this points to a perception of risk associated with the
Romanian market, and the need for a better business environment and accelerated structural
reform. Romania's poor business environment is also reflected in its tax profile. Maximum tax
rates and VAT are high, tumover thresholds are generally low, and a number of discretionary
programs are available. These problems have created a fiscal regime that distorts investment
incentives and reduces prospects of a viable fiscal base. Tax administration is also difficult due to
corruption in the system in the form of bribes for selective exemptions. As a result, much of the
economy operates informally, making it more difficult to create an environment conducive to
growth and sustainable development.
26.   The Government has made recent improvements in property registries, taxes, accounting
and audit standards, and the overall assessment of the business environment. Specific areas of
17



progress include: (i) new law and regulations on security interests in personal property and a new
internet-based registry that will provide more uniform property records; (ii) tax reforms in the
area of corporate income taxes, and to lower rates and broaden the base for personal income tax
and to integrate fanners and pensioners into the base; (iii) amendments to the bankruptcy law,
and establishment of a commission for more comprehensive reforms; (iii) adoption of by-laws
for the Audit Chamber to promote internationally-recognized accounting standards and financial
audit requirements; (iv) a business environment study and action plan to improve the business
environment; and (v) a new direct investment law aimed at replacing incentives that create
selective distortions, foster corruption, and undermine development.
27.   While progress has been made in improving the business environment, foreign investors
still face difficulties due to existing laws that provide tax preferences to domestic firms.
Domestic businesses also face capital formation problems associated with a weak financial
sector, an unsuitable tax environment, poor standards of accounting, an underdeveloped judicial
system, unclear provisions for property rights and contract enforcement, and general bureaucratic
obstacles that often require illegal payments to resolve. Consequently, improving the business
environment remains a high priority for the Government. A key reform will be to introduce a
Unified Corporate Income Tax Law to establish a level playing field for investment into the
economy. Other Government reform plans include removing barriers that impede business
development, a rationalization of fiscal inspection, streamlining the building permit process,
enforcing corporate governance, further tax reforms to provide more equitable treatment and a
broadened fiscal base, wider use of IAS, and more efficient bankruptcy procedures.
C. Social Protection and Poverty Reduction
28.   Under its program, the Government began strengthening the social protection system to
cope with the increased burdens placed upon it from accelerating the process of structural
change. Special attention was given to strengthening the Labor Redeployment Program and other
elements of the labor market, including the provision of pre-lay-off job counseling, and
bolstering the financial sustainability of the unemployment fund to cope with increased
unemployment and severance payments. The legal basis for providing micro-credit for
unemployed workers to start micro-businesses was enhanced. Furthermore, analytical work was
undertaken on the social assistance system to lay the foundations for the necessary reform.
29.   In the medium-term, the Government's agenda is to strengthen the social safety net and
deepen pension reform. The focus will be on how to achieve sustainable financial viability of
such assistance, improve the range of contractual savings options, and strengthen poverty
reduction efforts. In the short term, the Government will focus on mitigating the costs of
adjustment associated with privatization and restructuring of SOEs. While these actions are
expected to generate considerable medium-term benefits to the economy, they will entail layoffs,
social insurance payments, and other forms of coverage in the short run that will require
budgetary expenditure. The Government now plans to mitigate these adjustment costs by
utilizing fiscal and balance of payments support from adjustment operations to ensure needed
social protection is provided. In addition, assistance in the past has not been particularly well
18



targeted or delivered, and the Government intends to introduce measures to improve both
targeting and effectiveness of its social protection system.
30.    The Social Protection System. The Romanian social protection system has a high
outreach ratio. In any year from 1995 to 1999, more than 79 percent of all Romanian families
received a social benefit such as social insurance, entitlement or social assistance. From 1995 to
1998, the outreach of the social protection system increased along with poverty, but in 1999 the
number of covered families fell despite a continued rise in poverty. The outreach of the social
protection system is higher in rural areas than in urban areas (Table 3).
Table 3: Outreach of Social Transfers
Total                  Urban                  Rural
Year        Non-recipient Recipient Non-recipient Recipient Non-recipient Recipient
1995            20.3        79.7       24.1        76.0       15.7        84.4
1996            21.3        78.7       25.4        74.6       16.1        83.9
1997            17.8        82.2       20.7        79.3       14.3        85.8
1998            17.8        82.2       20.6        79.4       14.4        85.6
1999            19.3        80.7       23.0        77.0       14.8        85.3
Source: Estimations based on Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS) 1995-1999. Share of recipients and non-recipients
of social transfers.
31.   Various programs have different outreach. Old-age pensions, which account for 60
percent of total social spending, reach 31.5 percent of urban households and 29.9 percent of rural
ones, as shown in Table 4. Farmers' pensions reach 30 percent of rural households. Child
allowances, an example of entitlements, reach 39 percent of urban and 35 percent of the rural
households. Among the latter category, child allowances provide supplemental income for 58.8
percent of the rural poor. Despite the increase in poverty in recent years, targeted social
assistance programs to reduce extreme poverty have remained severely under-funded.
Table 4: Outreach of Selected Social Programs in 1999
Percent of households benefiting         Total          Urban          Rural
Old-Age Pension                          30.8            31.5           29.9
Farmer Pension                            14.1           1.3            30.0
Unemployment Benefit                      9.0            9.6            8.3
Child Allowance Benefit                  37.0            39.0           35.1
Scholarship Benefit                       0.4            0.6            0.2
Social Assistance Benefits                0.6            0.6            0.7
Source: Estimations based on LSMS 1999
32.   For the next phase of its social protection program, the major problems facing the
Govermnent include a weak fiscal base, and poor management and organization. These problems
have added to public and political pressure for increased relief during a period in which some
macroeconomic fundamentals have eroded, unemployment combined with underemployment has
been high, and when resources have been least available. The Government strategy is geared
19



toward structural reform to finance and target assistance more effectively. Specifically, the
Government will improve public sector capacity to implement social security, social safety net,
and poverty reduction programs. The program will strengthen the policy environment for the
provision of labor redeployment services, including job counseling, matching and placement.
These initiatives will be further supported by well-targeted training, micro-business incubators,
and micro-credit being provided under the Social Sector Development Loan. This support will be
targeted to mitigate the costs of adjustment for displaced employees, and others adversely
affected by restructuring and privatization, as well as workers laid off from the military and the
public administration as a result of downsizing. The social assistance system will be reorganized
and strengthened through the consolidation of programs, improved targeting, and more adequate
financing through the provision of financing from the state budget in the amount of 0.4 percent of
GDP. Poverty reduction policy will be made more coherent through the development of the
Commission for Poverty Reduction and Social Inclusion (CASPIS). The fiscal affordability and
sustainability of pensions will be enhanced through reforms in the existing pay-as-you-go pillar,
and the foundation will be laid for a mandatory fully-funded private sector-managed pillar to be
developed in the medium term.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Description and Objectives
33.   Description. The PSAL II is for the amount of EUR 339.8 million (US$ 300 million), and
contains two tranches: (i) the first, to be disbursed at the time of loan effectiveness; and (ii) the
second floating, to be released after all the conditions specified in the Loan Agreement have been
satisfactorily completed.
34.   Objectives. The proposed PSAL II has five key development objectives that serve as the
thematic basis for the program. All five have been agreed upon with Government representatives
in negotiations with the Bank. The objectives are:
* Elimination of state ownership of banks. This would be accompanied by measures to
strengthen the overall environment for private sector-based financial intermediation and
banking, and financial sector modernization. In particular, the details include full privatization
of the banking sector (i.e., BCR, CEC) '; improved enforcement of the legal and regulatory
framework in the banking sector; development of the Government securities market;
introduction of an adequate legal and regulatory framework for capital markets, and more active
use of these markets for debt and equity financing and strengthening of the National Securities
Commission; strengthening of banking sector infrastructure (i.e., movement to Real Time Gross
Settlement and general modernization of the payment and settlement system, use of IAS, a
sustainable Deposit Guarantee Fund, introduction of a comprehensive Credit Scoring System
for more active use of the Credit Information Bureau by the banks and NBR for credit risk
monitoring); and strengthening of the Insurance Supervision Commission.
* Divestiture of the largest public sector industrial and commercial loss-makers from the
Government portfolio, more rapid exit of the state from the enterprise sector as a whole,
20



and implementation of privatization transactions under more transparent conditions that
strengthen rather than harm Romania's reputation at home and abroad. The Government
intends to achieve this objective by finalizing the privatization process started under PSAL I,
including several large enterprises (i.e., ALRO and ALPROM); introducing and completing the
restructuring and workout of SOEs and pools of SOEs, including some large enterprises such as
TAROM that will operate under a loss-containment plan with the hope of being offered for sale
and privatized; and closing out virtually all of the portfolio of APAPS to rid the state of residual
interests in some large and most small- and medium-scale enterprises. Equally important in
PSAL II are the modalities of privatization being set by the Government. Recognizing that past
transactions have often been the subject of criticism due to non-disclosure, reports of private
deals, insider transactions, and related charges, the Bank will monitor closely the progress of
implementation without directly influencing the decision-making process.
Reduction of the quasi-fiscal activities of energy utilities. The Government plans to achieve
this objective by introducing major reform of the gas and oil sector (i.e., selling controlling
stakes of gas distributors and Petrom to strategic international buyers, rationalizing tariff
structures, increasing payables and receivables tumover to contain arrears, reviewing the tax
regime); introducing a modern legal, regulatory and institutional framework to encourage
private sector competition of network industries; and undertaking a full-scale reform of the
power sector for efficiency, reliable service, fair pricing, and proper regulatory oversight.
* Improvement of the business environment, mainly through adoption of a unified corporate
income tax law that creates a level playing field for domestic and international investors.
In addition to adoption and implementation of this critical piece of legislation, the
Government also intends to remove administrative barriers (i.e., permits, licenses, inspections,
visa); rationalize and consolidate institutional fiscal responsibilities and special extra-budgetary
funds; improve the tax environment for businesses to encourage more permanent hires;
strengthen corporate governance standards (including minority shareholder rights); implement
sound, internationally recognized accounting standards and financial audit requirements; and
introduce a more effective system of bankruptcy and liquidation to assist in enterprise
restructuring.
* Mitigation of social costs of adjustment, more efficient social protection, and effective
poverty reduction. Particular objectives include the provision of adequate yet sustainable
income support to laid-off workers without undermining work incentives; assisting laid-off
workers in obtaining alternative employment; strengthening the social safety net for the long-
term unemployed and the poorest within society; pursuing comprehensive reform of the pension
system by improving the equity of the public system in a financially sustainable way, while
introducing and regulating the private pension scheme; and improving implementation of public
policy coordination between central and local administrative units for poverty reduction
programs.
21



B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
35.   The Government believes that it must intensify and accelerate its economic and social
reform efforts as the only way to provide basic relief to the 40 percent of the population currently
living in poverty, and to address continued weaknesses in the fiscal account and balance of
payments. The challenge facing the Government is to intensify reforms in the face of its current
macroeconomic constraints. The proposed operation, in conjunction with support from the IMF,
is the Government's prime vehicle to meet this challenge. PSAL II will deepen and strengthen
the reforms initiated under the Government's program, with the intention of closing out state
ownership in the financial sector and most of the enterprise and energy sector. The loan will
support reforms that will (i) enhance Romania's long-term prospects for economic growth and
development; (ii) provide underlying support to people displaced by restructuring, while
promoting development of institutional capacity for effective poverty reduction; (iii) enhance the
capacity of Romania's energy and power sector to provide needed services on a prudently
managed and sustainable basis; and (iv) improve the business environment by removing
distortionary constraints to investment, cumbersome administrative barriers, and costly tax
collection and inspection practices. All of these efforts are geared toward accelerating Romania's
preparation for formal entry into the EU.
36.   The Bank is well positioned to assist the Government in implementing its reform
program. First and foremost, the proposed loan is intended to provide balance of payments
support to the Government as it undergoes the needed yet costly restructuring of its financial and
enterprise sectors, restructures its energy sector, and provides needed resources for income
support, social assistance, and poverty reduction. Thus, PSAL II will provide significant resource
cover to support the GOR budget and provide the needed social safety net for displaced
employees at a time when the budget is under duress. In addition to financial assistance, the Bank
has acquired considerable experience in the design and implementation of such difficult reform
programs, and the Government will be able to continue drawing on this experience as it
implements the reform and restructuring program.
C. Links to the Country Assistance Strategy
37.   The proposed PSAL II operation is envisioned under the high case lending scenario in the
CAS which was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June 19, 2001. The economic
justifications for PSAL II are twofold: (i) supporting and accelerating economy-wide structural
and institutional reforms; and (ii) alleviating the social consequences of reform.
38.   The core conditions for moving to the high case lending scenario, namely, a
macroeconomic framework and an associated financing plan agreeable to the Bank, are now in
place. The IMF Board approved an 18-month Stand-By Arrangement, in the amount of SDR300
million on October 31, 2001. In addition, the high case scenario requires progress in the three key
areas of structural reform: (i) the enterprise and energy sector reform; (ii) financial sector
restructuring; and (iii) governance and institutional reform. The Government's resolve to address
these program areas is steadfast and clear. It has met and, in some cases surpassed, the
22



requirements for the high case (Table 5), and in doing so, has also satisfied many of the
conditions for PSAL II first tranche release.
23



Table 5: Progress on CAS triggers
Comments
Enterprise and energy sector reform         __     _
Privatization plan for large commercial SOEs  Completed. SIDEX, the largest steel manufacturer sold. GOR
identified under PSAL 1 (9 case-by-case, 5 work-  has submitted privatization plans for large SOEs, including
outs, and at least 30 pooled)               ALRO and ALPROM.
Initiation of privatization/work-out process for  Substantial progress. GOR has initiated the process of
large commercial SOEs (4 case-by-case, including  procuring the services of a reputable investment bank to
PETROM, and 30 pooled)                       undertake sale of majority stake in PETROM; sale to be
completed by second tranche.
Agreement on a plan and timetable for reducing the  Completed. GOR has adopted plan for arrears reduction and
flow of energy arrears                       established monitoring mechanism to deal with inter agency
arrears targeting 20 major debtors.
Cost reduction and energy tariff increases for  Completed. Reforms are incorporated into the PSAL II
electric power plants                        program and the IMF Stand-by Arrangement.
Unbundling of electricity and gas industry SOEs  Completed. Unbundling in the energy sector is complete and
and the adoption of acceptable regulatory   the Government has put in place the necessary legal
legislation                                  conditions for privatization by amending laws that had
specifically prevented the privatization of PETROM and the
distribution companies of gas and electricity (Law 326 and
Law on Public Domain)..
Financial sector reform
Elimination of directed credit and rural/agricultural  Completed. All subsidized credit lines to the sector were
credit programs                              eliminated in the year 2001.
Divestiture of Banca Agricola, and an irrevocable  Completed. GOR has privatized Banca Agricola, and
agreement on method and timetable for divestiture  accepted the plan to fully privatize BCR, the largest state-
of BCR and CEC                               owned bank. GOR has submitted a restructuring plan for
eventual privatization of the CEC bank and agreed to have the
EXIM Bank cease from further undertaking commercial
banking activities in conjunction with restructuring.
Improvements in financial sector legal and   Completed. GOR has passed the Law on Credit Cooperatives,
supervisory framework, including NBR supervision  placing the institutions under the licensing and supervision of
of credit co-ops, and plan for development of  the NBR, while the CNVM has provided the Bank with its
equity and capital markets                   plan to supervise and provide regulatory oversight of the
capital and equity markets.
Governance and institutional reform
Adoption of agreed social assistance legislation  Completed. The MIG Law and the Social Assistance
(Social Assistance Framework Law and Minimum  Framework have been passed by the Parliament and have been
Income Guarantee Law)                        published in the Official Gazette.
An agreement on the process for development of an  Completed. GOR has presented a comprehensive anti-
anti-corruption strategy                     corruption strategy that will address public sector
management, institutional restraints and oversight between
branches of state, transparency and accountability between
Ipolitical and economic actors, and civil society participation.
24



D. Benefits and Risks
Benefits
39.   Implementation of continued structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors
under this operation will enhance Romania's prospects for growth and will reinforce the
sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization. In addition, continued breadth and depth of
reform in the financial sector, combined with a wide range of efforts to mitigate the social costs
of restructuring are expected to provide the needed resource cover for a smooth transition to a
genuinely market-based economy. These measures are also consistent with Romania's quest to
accede to the European Union, a goal that is providing an important incentive for Romania to
pursue difficult but necessary reforms.
40.   General benefits fromfinancial sector reforms are expected to include:
* Enhanced discipline and corporate governance, which will contribute to enhanced
competitiveness, transparency,  better  resource  allocation,  and  improved
accountability.
* Improved credit and risk management, which will lead to a more professional
financial sector and reduce systemic risks.
* More efficient financial intermediation, which will promote sustainable economic
growth.
*  Greater public confidence in the banking system based on sound financial sector
fundamentals and a more solvent and liquid deposit insurance scheme, all of which
should boost savings and investment and reduce the risk of bank runs and panic.
* Increased use of the capital markets for debt and equity financing of the private sector
and, eventually, municipalities, while also expanding the market for Government
securities.
* Introduction of sound principles for insurance sector development, including
standards of governance, minimum solvency and liquidity guidelines, separation of
life from non-life activities, and broad measures for consumer protection.
41.   General benefits from enterprise privatization and restructuring are expected to include:
* Privatization revenues.
* Reduced stress in the financial sector by reducing bad debt from loss-making SOEs.
* Reduced payment arrears to utilities, other commercial creditors and the budget.
* Reduced fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs related to support for loss-makers.
* Enforcement of hard budget constraints.
* Increased efficiency and improved govemance of large industrial enterprises resulting
from new investment and new owners.
* Increased direct investment flows from domestic and intemational sources.
* Transmission of a credible signal to the market that reforms are being pursued in
Romania.
25



42.   General benefits from energy sector reforms are expected to include:
*  Reduced payment arrears to utilities, improving the overall cash liquidity of
companies in the gas and electricity sectors.
*  Reduced fiscal and quasi-fiscal costs related to cross-subsidization of loss-makers.
* Rationalization of tariff structures to permit fairness, consistency, and cost recovery.
*  Participation from the private sector to increase investment and service delivery.
43.    Benefits from an improved business environment are expected to include:
*  Significant improvement in the investment climate.
*  Growth in the number of registered enterprises, and gradual increases in overall
employment generation from the SME sector helping to absorb some of the
employees released from state enterprises.
*  A rationalization of the tax system.
*  A broader fiscal base, and more systematic and standardized collection procedures.
*  Improvements in shareholder protection, which should lead to material increases in
direct investment as well as enhanced corporate governance.
*  Better standards of audit and accounting at the firm level, which should also improve
the quality of information for financial (extemal) and managerial (internal) purposes.
*  More efficient bankruptcy procedures, which should provide incentives for better
management, increased financial discipline, and a more competitive economy.
*  Better communication between the Government and business community by
increasing the transparency of the process of issuing legislation affecting the business
environment.
44.   Benefits from improved social protection and poverty reduction are expected to include:
*  Better targeting and delivery of employment services.
* More effective delivery of social assistance and coverage of the social safety net.
* A more transparent and sustainable pension scheme with increased coverage.
*  Higher policy visibility of poverty reduction efforts, and improved coordination of
these efforts between the Prime Minister's office and the Judet and local levels of
government.
Risks
45.   The Government will face several important risks in implementing PSAL II. The main
risks include: (i) macroeconomic instability; (ii) the social costs of reform; (iii) capacity to
implement complex reforms; and (iv) public perception of privatization. Each of these essentially
constitutes a political risk which, if not managed, could slow down implementation of the
program, or at the extreme, lead to a reversal of policy direction.
26



46.   Macroeconomic instability. The PSAL II program is realistic but ambitious. Its
implementation is contingent on strong political commitment and influenced by external
developments. In particular, the sharper than anticipated slowdown in the world economy, will
make implementation more difficult, testing the Government's resolve in carrying through with
the program. Downside risks, such as slower than projected economic growth and lower access
to international capital markets, will be accentuated.
47.    While these risks are in part mitigated by the fact that slower growth would reduce the
country's external financing needs, access to international capital markets is still a concern.
Although Romania has a-relatively favorable access to international capital markets at present, its
sovereign rating is still below investment grade, and recent experience (Russia crisis) suggests
that balance of payments pressures could rapidly emerge, particularly if international investors
become nervous as a result of recent events in Argentina. While this is a non-negligible risk, it is
mitigated by several important factors. Romania has a relatively low debt-to-GDP ratio, a
manageable debt repayment schedule and no concentration of repayments, such as in 1999-2000.
The country holds record high foreign exchange reserves (US$ 3.9 billion), providing a cushion
against sudden balance of payments pressures. There has been considerable progress in reforming
and privatizing the banking sector, reducing the risk of runs on banks, as in 1999. In an
emergency, additional funding from the IMF also could be made available, since the current
Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) provides access to only 29 percent of Romania's quota, which is
below the average 40 percent of quota under most SBAs.
48.   Another concern is that slower growth in the EU would affect Romania's export
performance. The external environment on which projections are based assumes a 2.4 percent
growth in the key EU trading partners. Slower growth in export markets would imply slower
export growth for Romania, lower than the 6 percent average growth rate projected for the 2002
to 2005 period. Although net exports have a negative contribution to growth (as imports exceed
exports), the projections still assume a narrowing of the trade deficit, reducing the negative
contribution of net exports to growth. The mitigating factor is that lower export growth resulting
from a sharper growth slowdown of EU trading would not necessarily lead to an equal increase in
the trade deficit because Romanian exports to these countries has a very high import content. For
instance, simulations indicate that a decrease in the growth rate of exports by one-third would
increase the trade deficit by 0.8 percent of GDP and the current account deficit by 0.7 percent of
GDP.
49.   A final concern is the impact of slower GDP growth on the Government's fiscal accounts.
Simulations indicate that slower growth would lead to a worsening of the fiscal deficit because of
lower tax revenues. These simulations suggest that slowing real GDP growth from 5 to 3 percent
would increase the deficit from 3 to 4 percent of GDP. Slowing real GDP growth further to 2
percent would increase the fiscal deficit to 4.6 percent of GDP. Meeting the IMF target of 3
percent of GDP would therefore require either a reduction in Government spending, an
acceleration of the privatization program, or a combination of both.
50.   Social cost of reform. The potential social cost of the proposed program and its impact
on poverty is perhaps the biggest risk facing the Government. This risk is most closely associated
27



with the privatization and energy sector reforms. It arises from the job losses that will occur
through privatization and possible liquidation of SOEs, and through continued mine closures.
The risk is also present in the increased costs to consumers of tariff increases and better
collections in the energy sector. The risk is exacerbated by the fact that wages are low, and
poverty rates are already very high at over 40 percent of the total population. This risk is short-to-
medium-term in nature. As reforms take hold, economic growth will accelerate and the resulting
growth in jobs and wages should eventually reduce the risk. Nonetheless, this short-term risk is
perceived to be acute, and specific attention is focused on mitigating it until the long-term
benefits of the program emerge. Specifically, PSAL II proceeds will be used for social support
while reforms take hold, including support for unemployment insurance, severance pay, micro-
credit, job training, and other forms of financial assistance for those declared redundant as a
result of structural reforms. Targeted assistance is expected to be equivalent to 0.4 percent of
GDP, or US$ 123 million or so from 2000. Based on 2001 GDP projections, this would equate
with US$ 152 million. This targeted assistance will also benefit poor consumers facing higher
utility bills.
51.   Capacity to implement complex reforms. The Government's capacity to implement a
complex, multi-component program involving a large number of institutions effectively poses an
important risk. To mitigate this risk Government has established a high-level project
management unit at the Ministry of Finance. This unit will guide and coordinate implementation
of the program and has been staffed with skilled and dedicated individuals, many of whom have
gained valuable experience during successful implementation of PSAL I. Furthermore, the
Government is supplementing its local specialists with international expertise in a number of key
program areas with the support of the companion World Bank loan, PEBL II. A related risk is the
issue of govemance, particularly with respect to implementation of the privatization program.
The Government is keenly aware of the need for complete transparency in the privatization
process and has asked for technical assistance to help in the evaluation of privatization tenders.
Moreover, the Bank will monitor the privatization process carefully.
52.   Public perception of privatization. While it is unclear at this time who will express
interest in many of the state enterprises to be privatized, it is likely that the number of foreign
buyers will be significant. This is expected particularly if Romania moves forward with a unified
corporate income tax law, implements business environment reforms, and follows transparent
privatization procedures. The involvement of foreign buyers, however, may also carry a political
risk, particularly if the Government is perceived as "giving away" enterprises to foreigners who
seek to eam "abnormal profits" while Romanians endure poverty. This risk appears manageable
due to the weak economy and broad recognition of the need for outside investment and market
links for increased trade. In light of Romania's negotiations on accession, that many of the
investors are likely to be from EU countries might make foreign investment more palatable.
E. First and Second Tranche Release
53.   The actions in the Government's reform program and the proposed PSAL II operation
have been designed and sequenced to ensure successful implementation of the program. The loan
is front-end loaded with more conditions already completed as conditions for Borad presentation
28



and for releasing the first tranche. A group of 12 core conditions have been identified as triggers
for release of the second tranche and are specified in the attached policy matrix. Non-core
conditions to be achieved by second tranche release have been also specified in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP), in its addendum as well as in supporting
implementation plans for each of the five policy components.
54.   The LDP also describes in detail the sequence of policy actions required to meet
successfully the core conditions. Thus, there is a clear and monitorable sequence of actions that
need to be taken at every stage of the implementation of the reform program.
55.   Below are the summaries of core and non-core conditions for Board presentation/first
tranche and second tranche release.
Board Presentation/First Tranche
56.   In thefinancial sector, the Government's main objective is to end public sector banking.
The Government recognizes that the solution to building a viable and sustainable conmmercial
banking framework lies in moving ahead with privatization and competition, backed by sound
infrastructure and systems, a modem legal framework, functioning judicial institutions, risk-
based supervision for regulatory oversight, and development of capital markets, insurance,
contractual savings and other non-bank services. To this end, the Government will need to
complete the privatization task initiated under PSAL I. Thus, core Board presentation/first
tranche conditions relate to the two largest remaining state banks, BCR and CEC. Additional
non-core conditions and triggers regarding the legal and regulatory framework, capital markets
development, banking sector infrastructure, and insurance supervision are also enumerated
below.
Core Conditions
* BCR. The GOR has made a firm decision on the privatization strategy for BCR,
including terms, conditions, and timeline benchmarks acceptable to the Bank as
evidenced by (i) the approval by the GOR of the privatization strategy; and (ii) an
announcement to the public in the appropriate official gazette of the decision and
timetable. The GOR has initiated a process of procuring the services of a privatization
advisor based on Terms of References and terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. The GOR will submit a privatization plan for BCR that is acceptable to the
Bank.
* CEC. The GOR has submitted to the Bank for review and acceptance: (i) the final
draft of the EU funded due-diligence report and supporting annexes; (ii) the
Information Memorandum; (iii) the Valuation Report; and (iv) the Feasibility Study,
as the basis for determining the necessary legal, operational, and organizational
requirements for the CEC's restructuring plan in preparation for the bank's
privatization.
29



Non-core Conditions
* Bank Infrastructure Support Systems. The NBR has developed Terms of Reference
acceptable to the Bank for the Electronic Payment System (EPS), including the Real
Time Gross Settlement System (RTGSS), the Automated Clearing House (ACH),
and the Government Securities Registration and Settlernent System (GSRSS).
*   Insurance Sector Reform: Strengthening Supervision. The GOR has appointed
members of the Insurance Supervision Commission (ISC). The GOR has submited
TORs acceptable to the Bank for the appointment of an Advisor to assist in
strengthening the institutional capacity of the ISC to supervise and provide
regulatory oversight of the insurance sector, in conjunction with the duties,
responsibilities and span of authority of the ICS.
*   Capital and Equity Market Development. The GOR has submitted a strategic plan
acceptable to the Bank to strengthen the institutional capacity of the National
Securities Commission (CNVM) in its capacity to supervise and to provide
regulatory oversight of the capital and equity markets. The GOR has engaged a
capital market development advisor acceptable to the Bank to: (i) assist in revising
the capital market legal framework, the Law 52/1994 regarding the securities and
stock exchanges, and the Ordinance 24/ 1994 regarding the establishment and
operation of the open-end investment funds and of investment companies as
financial intermediation institutions, and (ii) draft a CNVM statute and assist CNVM
in preparing a draft strategic plan.
57.   In the enterprise sector, the Government's main objective is to conclude the major
privatizations, particularly of large SOEs, that began under PSAL I and need to be brought to a
close due to the stress they cause on the budget, quasi-fiscal channels, and the banking system.
Core conditions for Board presentation/first tranche release relate to case-by-case privatization
and workouts of large SOEs to continue to remove the largest risks from the system. While
privatization alone is not sufficient to create a stable environment for economic development, the
removal of state ownership and any associated financial obligations is considered a prerequisite.
Non-core conditions relate to pool privatization and workouts, and additional APAPS
privatization are described below.
Core Conditions
* Large SOE Privatizations Carried Forward from PSAL I. For ALRO, the GOR has
initiated a controlled tender or negotiations, as agreed with the Bank. For ALPROM,
the GOR has initiated the sale through an open tender, as agreed with the Bank.
* New Pool Workouts. The GOR selected 10 companies, acceptable to the Bank, for
privatization in three pools, and has issued the RFP for selection of three investment
banks or sales agents for their privatization. The GOR selected 10 companies,
30



acceptable to the Bank, for workout in four pools, and has issued the RFP for
selection of four workout companies to undertake the workout of each pool.
Non-core Conditions
* Large SOE Privatizations Carried Forward from PSAL I. For SIDEX, the GOR
provided evidence that the sale is complete. For Hidromecanica, the GOR concluded
the sale. For Electroputere and Romvag, the GOR placed advertisements for sale of
the companies in the local and international press. For Antibiotice, the GOR has
initiated the privatization through an open tender. For Tractorul, the GOR received
the due diligence reports of the financial advisor. For IUG, the GOR re-initiated the
process of sale. For Clujana, the GOR sold 30 percent of the assets. For Roman,
Siderugica and Nitramonia, the GOR started the restructuring plan agreed with the
Bank. Finally, for 30 of the 50 SOEs being privatized in pools, the GOR publicly
announced the sale of 30 firms and received offers and start negotiations for 12 firns.
* Additional APAPS Privatizations and Liquidations. GOR provided satisfactory
evidence to the Bank that the APAPS has privatized at least four large state-owned
enterprises, 50 small and medium state-owned enterprises and 50 state-owned
enterprises in which it held residual shares.
* TAROM. The GOR submitted a restructuring plan that is satisfactory to the Bank.
The plan will result in the reduction of total losses, including interest expense.
58.   In the energy sector, the main focus is to eliminate the use of the electricity and gas
sectors as sources of quasi-fiscal loans and cross-subsidization of inefficient and un-restructured
SOEs. The objective is to modernize the energy sector so that it is able to operate professionally
and in a manner that provides reasonable profit, competition, and high levels of service delivery.
Core and non-core conditions for Board presentation/first tranche release are described below.
Core Conditions
*  Oil Sector and Privatization of Petrom. The GOR initiated a process of procuring
services of a reputable international investment bank based on the Terms of Reference
and procurement procedure satisfactory to the Bank. New regulations were issued for
common carrier status for oil transmission.
* Power Sector: Restructuring and Privatization. The GOR organized Electrica into
eight entities (as recommended by the privatization advisors) and Termoelectrica into
two business units (for electricity and district heat production and supply operations),
and set up each plant as a cost/profit center in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The
GOR selected two electricity distribution companies to be offered for privatization as
recommended by the privatization advisor. The GOR has initiated privatization
procedures, prepared with the help of the privatization advisor, for the two electricity
distribution companies.
31



* Oil and Gas Sector: Improve Efficiency. The GOR took measures aimed at
increasing the overall cumulative collection rate for the year 2001 of Distrigaz Nord
and Distrigaz Sud to a level of 95 percent. The actual collection rate achieved was
85.6 percent. The Government has adopted an "Action Plan to Improve the
Collections in the Energy Sector." The GOR's commitment to this plan is manifested
in an energy sector addendum to the LDP signed by the Prime Minister. The measures
being implemented under the plan have been deemed sufficient remedy for the year
2001 shortfall in the collection rates of Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud. The
Government has initiated the process of procuring consulting services for the review
of the tax regime for oil and gas production with a view to capturing some of the
windfall profits of domestic producers.
Non-core Conditions
*  Gas Sector. The GOR has unbundle the gas sector into independent exploration
production, transmission, storage and distribution companies.
* Power Sector: Improve Collections and Reduce Arrears. The GOR took measures
aimed at ensuring that (i) Electrica would achieve a monthly cumulative collection
rate of not less than 96 percent beginning January 2001, (ii) Termoelectrica would
achieve a monthly collection rate of 100 percent for electricity for each month from
October 2001, and (iii) Termoelectrica would achieved a cumulative monthly
collection rate of not less than 95 percent for district heat supply for the year 2001.
The actual collection rates achieved were, respectively, 92.3 percent, 92 percent, and
87 percent. The Government has adopted an "Action Plan to Improve the Collections
in the Energy Sector" that applies to these companies. The GOR's commitment to this
plan is manifested in an energy sector addendum to the LDP signed by the Prime
Minister. The measures being implemented under the plan have been deemed
sufficient remedy for the shortfall in the collection rates of Electrica and
Termoelectrica. The GOR has established a system for monthly review of
Termoelectrica's losses which entails that Termoelectrica's obligations to the oil and
gas companies are paid through mechanisms satisfactory to the World Bank.
59.   In support of an improved business environment, the main objective is to create an
environment conducive to investment and business growth. Such an environment is essential to
stimulate increased direct investment from both domestic and foreign sources. It is also essential
for opening up the economy to create new and dynamic enterprises able to absorb Romania's
unemployed and underemployed. Core Board presentation/first tranche release conditions are
described below.
Core Conditions
* Administrative Barriers. The GOR has established a Business Environment Task
Force in a manner acceptable to the Bank and which includes (i) representatives of all
32



ministries involved in the sector, and (ii) representatives from at least two major
business associations. The GOR has appointed a Business Environment Advisor
acceptable to the Bank to head the Task Force and to ensure the fulfillment of the
measures identified in the implementation plan. The GOR developed and agreed on a
detailed time-bound implementation plan for the removal of administrative barriers in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The GOR has provided evidence of the nationwide
integration of the trade and fiscal registration system.
*  Tax and Fiscal Reform. The GOR has submitted to the Parliament draft legislation
acceptable to the Bank to unify existing regulations under several laws and eliminate
distortionary tax incentives (by, inter alia, replacing profit tax reductions and
exemptions in Law 133/1999 and the tax allowance in Law 189/2001 with a uniform
20 percent investment tax allowance). The GOR has not, and will not, introduce tax
holidays or any new discretionary tax incentives. The new profit tax law will also
gradually increase the extraordinarily low profit tax rate for exporting activities
towards the standard profit tax rate, with a first adjustment from 5 percent to 6 percent
being made in 2002.
* Bankruptcy Enforcement Procedures. The GOR launched a tender to select an
advisor, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, to review the current bankruptcy
legislation and procedures and to identify specific measures for corrective actions in a
manner acceptable to the Bank.
Non-core Conditions
* Accounting and Auditing. The GOR has published in the Romanian language the
revised version of 2001 IAS, development and publication of practical guidelines for
LAS implementation in Romania, and publication of all norms and procedures
provided in Article 7 of the EGO no. 75/1999 regarding financial auditing.
* Corporate Governance. The GOR conducted a study on corporate governance in
Romania consistent with best practices and international standards based on guidance
from the OECD and EU.
60.   In social protection and poverty reduction, the Government is very legitimately
concerned about the social cost associated with continued restructuring of loss-making
enterprises, particularly at a time when macroeconomic conditions are hardening. GOR also
intends to strengthen the social protection system with immediate as well as long-term efforts. It
should be noted that a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the social impact of the
PSAL II program is to be established. Core Board presentation/first tranche release conditions are
described below; there are no non-core conditions for this component.
Core conditions
33



* Poverty Reduction. The GOR has submitted to Parliament a Law on National Social
Assistance System that addresses the consolidation of institutional responsibilities for
the delivery of social assistance benefits and services. The GOR has obtained
Parliamentary approval of legislation establishing the financing responsibility for
means-tested income support (Minimum Income Guarantee) by earmarking resources
within the allocated amounts to the local authorities from a state budget.
* Labor Market Restructuring and Related Services. The GOR is providing pre-layoff
services to collectively discharged employees, including those from the public
administration and state budget sectors and has committed to maintain the levels of
these services.
* Pension Reform. The GOR presented the Bank with a Multi-pillar Pension Strategy,
acceptable to the Bank. The strategy is aimed at: (i) consolidating the public pillar
reform by defining a clear and sustainable replacement rate and a transparent and
financially viable rule for indexing pensions; (ii) establishing key principles on the
funded pillar structure; (iii) assessing the fiscal implications and present various
scenarios for financing the initial transition costs; and (iv) creating by law a Pension
Policy Unit within the Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity. The GOR has
presented to the Bank draft amendments for consolidating the public pillar reform.
Second Tranche Conditions
61.   In the financial sector, the core conditions for second tranche release include major
progress on restructuring and privatization of the last two major state banks, BCR and CEC,
recognizing that Exim Bank will terminate its operations as a commercial bank and operate as a
specialized international trade finance institution. Additional non-core conditions relating to
financial sector reforms including development of infrastructure support systems, insurance, and
capital market development are also described below.
Core Conditions
* BCR Privatization. The GOR will offer for sale and has taken all reasonable steps to
complete the sale of BCR to private sector shareholders in compliance with
management, capital, ownership, and all legal and regulatory requirements of the
NBR.
* CEC Pre-Privatization Restructuring. Ongoing CEC restructuring as evidenced by
compliance with agreed timeline benchmarks stipulated in a restructuring plan
approved by the Bank, and by progress reports submitted on a quarterly basis.
Non-core Conditions
* BCR Privatization. The GOR will submit to the Bank evidence of a firm bid from a
strategic investor on the sale of BCR as evidenced by a "bid bond" and compliance
34



with other bid requirements stipulated by APAPS within 6 months of Board
presentation/First Tranche Release. The GOR will submit regular reports on the status
and progress of BCR's privatization in compliance with agreed timeline benchmarks
stipulated in the approved privatization plan. The reporting requirements of the Bank
include submission of the following documents: (i) detailed privatization plan and
valuation report; (ii) list of bidders expressing interest; (iii) Information
Memorandum; (iv) criteria for any pre-selection of bidders; (v) criteria for selection of
winning bidders; and (vi) report prepared by the financial advisor or any other advisor
on the tender when completed.
* CEC Pre-Privatization Restructuring. The GOR will prepare a restructuring plan for
CEC that is acceptable to the Bank within 30 days of Board presentation/First
Tranche Release. The GOR will modify CEC legislation, including the final
resolution of the FNI issue(s) as it affects the: (i) financial position of the CEC Bank,
and (ii) the compensation of the investors in the fund on a basis consistent with the
approved restructuring plan of the CEC Bank within 30 days of Board presentation/
First Tranche Release. The GOR will engage bank restructuring and privatization
advisor(s) and commence with the restructuring of the CEC Bank in preparation for
its privatization within 60 days of First Tranche Release.
* Bank Infrastructure Support Systems. The NBR will select a provider for the
Electronic Payment System (EPS) within six months of Board Presentation/First
Tranche Release. The NBR will develop a program to: (i) verify the on-going
progress of the EPS according to the timeline benchmarks and schedule negotiated
with the provider and accepted by the Bank; (ii) ascertain the individual banks'
readiness to participate in the LVPP, including computer back-up and a disaster
recovery plan; (iii) institute a training program on the management and operations of
the EPS; and (iv) verify and monitor progress of the EPS in compliance with the
timeline and benchmarks stipulated in such programs.
* Insurance Sector Reform. The GOR will appoint an Advisor acceptable to the Bank
within three months of Board Presentation/First Tranche Release. The GOR will
provide evidence of ongoing institutional strengthening of the ISC in the form of
quarterly progress reports acceptable to the Bank regarding, but not limited to,
organization, operations, staffing, training and IT requirements, and appropriate
changes in regulations for insurance and re-insurance sector activities.
*  Capital and Equity Market Development. The GOR will establish a new legal and
regulatory framework for the capital and equity markets by improving the appropriate
laws and regulations governing the capital and equity markets, consistent with EU
acquis and directives.
62.   In the enterprise sector, core second tranche triggers involve finalization of privatizations
and workouts initiated under PSAL I. With regard to large SOEs being offered for sale and
worked out, APAPS will institute the process of Bank review of privatization and restructuring
35



transactions, with the intention that Romania's reputation is viewed as supportive of
transparency, accountability and fairness in these transactions. Core and non-core conditions are
described below.
Core Conditions
* Large-Scale Privatization. The GOR will offer for sale or will take irreversible
measures, agreed upon with the Bank, for the disposition and sale of assets of the
following companies: ALRO and ALPROM.
* New Pool Workouts. The GOR will offer 8 of the 10 companies in the privatization
pools for sale and will not unreasonably refused to sell and work out 8 of the 10
companies in the workout pools according to the restructuring plans presented by the
responsible consultants.
Non-core Conditions
* Large-Scale Privatization. The GOR will offer for sale or has taken irreversible
measures, agreed upon with the Bank, for the sale and disposition of assets of the
following companies: Electroputere, Romvag, Antibiotice and the three main
operational components of Tractorul. For IUG and Cluiana, it will sell the company or
its assets. For Roman, Siderugica and Nitramonia, the GOR will sell all operations
and assets identified in their restructuring plans. In addition, the GOR will sell 30 of
the 50 SOEs being privatized in pools.
* Additional APAPS Privatizations and Liquidations. GOR will provide satisfactory
evidence to the Bank that the APAPS has privatized at least 10 large SOEs and 300
small and medium SOEs, and privatized another 100 SOEs in which it holds residual
shares.
*  TAROM. The GOR will continue the restructuring of the firm so that total losses,
including interest expense, do not exceed $33 million in 2002, and $20 million in
2003. The GOR will prepare a medium-term privatization strategy acceptable to the
World Bank.
*  Communications Sector. The GOR will adopt a Regulatory Development Program
(RDP) for the telecommunications sector acceptable to the Bank. The GOR will
implement the key elements of the RDP and will establish a functioning regulatory
framework for the telecommunications sector in accordance with the RDP in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, including adoption of an adequate structure and legal
personality for General Inspectorate of Communications (GIC).
* Loss Reduction and Privatization Program for National Companies and Regies
Autonomes: Achieve Loss Reduction in the Mining Sector. The GOR will progress
with implementation of the five-year plan to reduce subsidies and losses.
36



* Liberalization of the Utilities Sector. The GOR will complete the review of all
legislation governing network industries (electricity, oil, gas), as well as public
domain, concession and competition aspects relating to them, with the objective of
providing consistency with medium- and long-term policy objectives, ensuring
regulatory coherence toward each network industry and increased independence of
regulators. Further, the GOR will submit to the Parliament for approval the draft
corrective legislation acceptable to the Bank. The GOR will regulate ownership rights
of the gas distribution companies so that local administrations do not have ownership
rights over gas distribution pipelines, and to move pipelines into the private domain
of the state to enable distribution companies to legally own these assets. The GOR
will also provide that all electricity distribution network and assets are transferred
from the public domain to the private domain of the state so as to avoid interference
by local administrations.
63.   In the energy sector, second tranche triggers largely involve finalizing privatization
transactions, improving the cash flow position of power companies by narrowing gaps in tariff
rates and reducing arrears, and implementing new legislative and regulatory incentives for private
participation and network industry liberalization. All conditions listed below are core conditions
for second tranche release; there are no non-core conditions.
Core Conditions
* Gas Sector. The GOR will offer for sale through an open international competitive
tender for strategic buyers, and by publicly announcing the sale and sales process of
the two existing gas distribution companies (Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud).
*  Oil Sector: Privatization of Petrom. The GOR will offer and is making progress on
the sale of at least a 51 percent stake in Petrom in compliance with an approved
privatization plan previously agreed upon between the World Bank and the GOR. The
sale will be made through an open international competitive tender for strategic
3buyers.
* Power Sector: Restructuring and Privatization. The GOR will review with the Bank
the privatization strategy, prepared for the two electricity distribution companies with
the privatization advisor, and has offered for sale the controlling shares of the
companies. The GOR will adopt a privatization strategy for the electricity generation
sector acceptable to the Bank.
*  Oil and Gas Sector: Improve Collections and Reduce Arrears. The GOR will ensure
that the level of overall cumulative year-to-date collections as a percent of billings of
Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud is increased to a level not lower than 97.5 percent.
The GOR will ensure that the accounts payable to the gas producers and gas
transmission companies, resulting from gas delivery beginning January 1, 2002 will
be paid within 60 days.
37



* Power Sector: Improve Collections and Reduce Arrears. The GOR will ensure that
(i) Electrica will achieve a monthly cumulative collection rate of not less than 97.5
percent from January 2002, (ii) Termoelectrica will continue to achieve a monthly
collection rate of 100 percent for electricity from January 2002, and (iii)
Termoelectrica will achieve a cumulative monthly collection rate of not less than 97.5
percent for district heat supply from January 2002.
64.   In the business environment, the main objective will be to continue with tax and fiscal
reforms, reduce administrative barriers and streamline procedures, develop more efficient
bankruptcy procedures, enhance governance standards, and improve financial information
through better accounting and auditing standards and requirements. While there are no core
conditions for second tranche release in this area, work is expected to be ongoing. A series of
non-core conditions have been identified in the LDP and are outlined below. Subsequent work in
the business environment may follow PSAL II in other operations.
Non-core Conditions
* Administrative Barriers. The GOR will implement in a timely way its plan to
improve the business environment in Romania in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
*  Tax and Fiscal Reform. The Borrower will implement a legislative package
acceptable to the Bank that will unify existing regulations under several laws and
eliminate distortionary incentives for each type of tax (VAT, excises, corporate profit
and personal income). The purpose of the package is to simplify and unify the
existing provisions regarding fiscal incentives to eliminate discrimination, and to
harmonize fiscal legislation with EU legislation.
* Auditing and Accounting. The companies included in the list attached to the Order of
the Minister of Public Finance no. 94/2001 for the approval of the Accounting
Regulation harmonized with the lVth Directive 78/660/CEE (197 companies) will
draft financial statements for the FY ended on December 31, 2001. Companies that
comply with criteria regarding turnover, total balance sheet and average number of
employees, will commence with implementation of the aforementioned regulations
and te be audited according to international standards in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
* Bankruptcy. The GOR will (i) develop and complete an action plan acceptable to the
Bank for improvement of bankruptcy procedures; and (ii) take actions acceptable to
the Bank to improve and streamline bankruptcy procedures. The GOR has developed
a program to strengthen the judicial system and the legislative framework for an
efficient application of legislation regulating bankruptcy, including technical
assistance required for the training of judges and auxiliary staff regarding the
bankruptcy of commercial companies, bank bankruptcy, banking operations,
international operations, and related fields, as well as technical assistance for
38



infrastructure improvement of the commercial courts for better management of the
commercial files.
Corporate Governance. The GOR will develop an action plan acceptable to the Bank
for improving corporate governance in Romania.
65.   In social protection and poverty reduction, second tranche conditions primarily focus on
completion of actions initiated as a condition of Board presentation/first tranche release. Core
conditions are described below; there are no non-core conditions in this area.
Core Conditions
* Poverty Reduction. The budget will allocate sufficient resources (0.4 percent of GDP)
satisfactory to the Bank to finance the targeted MIG program and maintains a
sufficient level thereafter. The GOR will obtaine Parliamentary approval of the Law
on the National Social Assistance System and has prepared secondary legislation
satisfactory to the World Bank.
*  Unemployment Assistance. The GOR will obtain Parliamentary approval of
legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, that fosters financial viability and rationalizes
unemployment benefits and their financing.
* Pension Reform. Parliament will approve amendments that will enhance compliance
and will consolidate the public pillar reform by defining a sustainable replacement
rate and a transparent and financially viable indexation rule. The GOR will submit to
the Parliament a Law on the Mandatory Private Pension Pillar (Second Pillar) that is
satisfactory to the Bank.
Supervision
66.   The project will be supervised on a quarterly basis. In addition to regular supervision
missions, the Bank will follow standard Bank practices regarding accounts and reporting.
67.   All records and accounts of operations under this Loan, including Deposit Accounts, will
be audited annually by auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the Bank's Auditing
Guidelines and under TORs agreed upon with Bank. The PMU will fulfill the Bank's financial
reporting requirements, will prepare the information required under the Financial Management
Plan, and will contract out the required audits. The audit reports will be submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year.
F. Implementation
68.   The Government is aware that achieving the ambitious objectives of the PSAL II program
will require a major implementation effort (including technical assistance support) and close
coordination of actions and policies. Therefore, the Government has set up a Program
39



Management Unit (PMU) in the Ministry of Public Finance, modeled on the successful PSAL I
unit, to coordinate implementation of the program.
69.   The administrative and technical capacity of the PMU will be strengthened by
intemational advisors, including a privatization specialist, a banking sector specialist, and a
business environment specialist. These experts will be necessary to ensure success, a
shortcoming that was noted by their absence during PSAL I. The advisors will work full-time for
three years (the full period that the proposed TA loan attached to this project is operating), and
will be assisted by local experts and support staff. The advisors will be expected to provide
policy and operational advice to the Govemment in their respective fields of expertise, as well as
to (i) assist the PMU to oversee the bidding and contracting process for the privatization agents,
(ii) ensure that Bank procurement procedures are followed, and (iii) arrange for the payment of
fees to the privatization agents. They will also be responsible for contracting consultants to
conduct studies for the other project components, in consultation with representatives of the
counterpart Ministries.
70.   In addition, the PMU will be responsible for coordinating its work with the work of
donors other than the Bank including, but not limited to, the European Union, the Intemational
Monetary Fund, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The TA Steering
Committee will oversee the project. The TA Steering Committee will include representatives
from the APAPS, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Public Finance, and the National Bank
of Romania.
G. Loan Administration
71.   Borrower and Loan amount. The proposed PSAL II will be made to the Republic of
Romania, represented by the Ministry of Public Finance. The loan, which will be released in two
tranches of EUR 169.9 million (US$ 150 million) each, will be a single currency loan with a 17-
year maturity, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard LIBOR interest rate. If
the borrower decides to capitalize the front-end fee, the first tranche release will be EUR 169.9
million (US$ 150 million) minus the front end fee.
72.   Disbursement. Upon approval of the loan and notification by the Bank of loan
effectiveness, the Government will submit a withdrawal application for the loan's first tranche.
The second tranche will be floating and will be released when the conditions pertaining to it have
been satisfactorily completed. The Ministry of Public Finance will open and maintain a deposit
account in the National Bank of Romania. The IBRD will deposit all proceeds of the Loan in this
account at the request of the Ministry of Public Finance. If, after deposit in this account, the
proceeds of the Loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to finance items imported
from non-member countries, or goods or services on the IBRD's standard negative list), the
IBRD will require the borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in which case the IBRD will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan.
40



73.   Closing Date. The closing date of the loan will be December 31, 2004.
H. Poverty Implications
74.   The structural reforms to be undertaken with the support of the proposed PSAL II are
critical elements of the Government's poverty reduction strategy. Poverty and economic growth
are inextricably linked. This link is reflected in Romania's experience of the 1990s, when a
cumulative 26 percent GDP drop, coupled with an increase in inequality, led to a sharp rise in
poverty to 41 percent (Figure 1). This situation was triggered by high inflation and rising
unemployment, and persisted because many displaced industrial workers moved back to rural
areas to engage in subsistence farming. While the poverty rates since the beginning of the
recovery are not yet available, mid-2001 figures for unemployment point to a decline to 8 percent
from around 12 percent in 1999. Sustained growth is expected to halt the slide into poverty both
because of better labor market opportunities and improved Government fiscal capacity to fund
social assistance. Initial indicators from ongoing Bank Economic Sector Work suggest that the
poverty rate has declined over the last two years, for the first time since the transition began.
Figure 1: Poverty Trends and Growth
100
800 | -~-- tS                8 9 
|     2076  9 --_-L82
60
41
40                      b31 3             A
20  19             2
20--              - - - -
1989 1993 1994     1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
|--- Poverty Headcount  - GDP Volume Index I
Source: Romania Living Standard Measurement Survey (LSMS) Data
41



75.   The reforms under PSAL II are anticipated to have a negative impact on poverty and
welfare in the short term. The impact is primarily related to redundancies created by privatization
of SOEs and, to a lesser extent, privatization of the banking sector. Under PSAL I, a total of
21,180 were collectively displaced. All of these displaced persons received severance payments
and benefited from pre-layoff services in accordance with PSAL I conditionalities. Almost one
third of those displaced enrolled in active labor market programs, and more than 2,600 obtained
long-term employment. Many of those who were laid off came from the banking sector, with
generous severance pay, good connections, and high education, putting them in a strong position
to find alternative employment. The EU has not disbursed the majority of its EUR 100 million
funds for the Enterprise Restructuring and Employment Conversion Program (RICOP) that was
designed to address dislocations in the labor market.
76.   The experience in the mining sector under a separate program of structural reform,
however, tells a more problematic story. More than 120,000 miners were made redundant, and
despite generous severance payments and interim social assistance, few have found alternative
employment. Many have been immobile and stayed in mining areas with limited alternative
employment prospects. The Bank has tried to mitigate the social impacts of this restructuring
under the Mining Restructuring and Social Mitigation Project, but this has demonstrated the
difficulty of fully mitigating such costs in structurally problematic areas.
77.   PSAL II is expected to have a much larger impact than PSAL I-with up to 45,000
redundancies from SOEs, and further reductions in the public sector and military which fall
outside of PSAL II. The ongoing Labor Redeployment Program (LRP), established in 1997 under
the now Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity, is the main tool for addressing this program.
The Social Sector Development Project (SSD), approved by the Board in June 17, 2001, will
finance labor redeployment services for 120,000 workers over the next four years, and the
National Employment Agency will provide basic job counseling and matching services to an
additional 500,000 workers seeking employment over that period. Experience from other
transition economies shows that male workers over 45 years of age who are involved in manual
occupations find difficulty in obtaining alternative employment. The LRP will provide retraining,
micro-business incubators and other support programs. Workers made redundant under PSAL II
will thus be eligible for severance pay, unemployment benefits for up to 18 months, and LRP
services.
78.   The reforms under PSAL II will also have an impact on household welfare as a result of
price increases in the energy sector and possible reduced service provision or transfers, such as
pensions to households, due to public sector restructuring. To address these issues, PSAL II
supports reforms to buttress the social safety net for the poorest households. Experience from
around the world shows that the best way to protect households, where a general social assistance
system exists, is to improve its targeting, finance it adequately, and minimize administrative
costs. It is less effective from a targeting perspective, and more costly from an administrative
perspective, to have a number of potentially overlapping social assistance programs tied to each
sector. While Romania already has a minimum income guarantee (MIG), the targeting needs to
be improved and the financing secured. The SSD, which includes support from the EU and the
UK, will assist the Government in strengthening the targeting arrangements and delivery system
42



through the local governments. The PSAL II reforms also ensure that the Government will
allocate 0.4 percent of GDP from the central budget to finance the MIG adequately. This level of
financing has been calculated as necessary to bring the poorest 500,000 households living in
abject poverty up to the minimum income level (basic poverty line). The Bank will be supporting
other elements of public expenditure restructuring through the ongoing Public Expenditure
Review, and sector-specific work in other areas such as infrastructure, health and education.
Ongoing public sector reforms which will help reduce poverty include pension reform for long-
term savings, and better coordination of poverty reduction efforts by establishing a monitoring
unit in the Prime Minister's office and increasing administrative capacity at the Judet level.
These efforts are also complemented by social capital and community development programs of
the Romania Social Development Fund.
79.   Although there are social costs in the short term, these are being managed and mitigated
as discussed above. Over the medium term however, it is quite clear from international
experience that the poor are usually the most affected by high inflation and low growth. The
measures embodied in the PSAL II to reduce inflation and enhance growth are thus amongst the
most important contributors to poverty reduction in Romania over the next two years. The Bank
is currently undertaking an update of the poverty profile and its dynamics that would facilitate
increased quantification of these likely positive impacts.
I. Environmental Impact
80.   The environmental concerns under PSAL II are expected to be minimal and primarily
relate to the privatizations of SOEs engaged in mining, power generation and distribution, and
agro-processing. The Government, however, has already taken important measures to ensure
adequate environmental safeguards and to minimize potential impact under PSAL II based on
recommendations of the World Bank, EU, and other donors. The main measures are detailed
below.
81.   New Privatization Laws. The Government has amended its privatization legislation to
comply with environmental safeguards in accordance with EU legislation. The amendments were
completed under PSAL I. In particular, they include:
* The privatization legislation regulates environmental obligations as a minimum set of
obligations, incumbent on a company that is to be offered for sale, and the obligation to
conform to laws regarding environmental protection. The public institution responsible for
the privatization (APAPS) or the line ministry must include these obligations in the
presentation file or in the public offer prospectus. Such liabilities are set by the environmental
authority, based on an environmental assessment.
* In the case such liabilities have not been disclosed in the presentation file or in the public
offer, the public institutions involved must compensate the buyer, or the company, as
appropriate, for the damages incurred.
43



82.   Environmental Audits for Each Transaction. The RFPs and TORs for each privatization
to be conducted under PSAL II include environmental safeguards. Specifically:
* As under PSAL I, the RFPs and TORs for the investment banks for advisory services during
the privatization process require environmental audits. The due diligence report for the
privatization also requires a review of the environmental impact of the enterprise plants and
operations.
* Because most companies need to remedy the environmental impact of their activities, the
privatization advisor is required to secure the assistance of environmental experts in order to
assess environmental obligations and effectively negotiate liabilities during sales
negotiations.
* In accordance with the Government's privatization plan, advisors work with APAPS to
carefully consider buyer indemnification provisions under the law related to environmental
liabilities and disclosure of company information.
83.   Coordination with EU Environmental Protection Programs. The Government is also
benefiting from substantial support and technical assistance from the EU to protect the
environment and support Romania's cleanup efforts. This support has been closely coordinated
with the PSAL team. Specifically, the team cooperated with the EU to identify the most
appropriate support for mitigating the environmental situations of the companies to be offered for
sale. Thus, nine companies under PSAL I (Electroputere, Romvag, IUG, Nitramonia,
Siderurgica, Uzinele Sodice, Colorom, Rocar, Fabrica de Scule) have been included into the
Phare Environmental Compliance Program (EUR 480,000). Under this program, the consultants
provided APAPS with Level 1 and Level 2 assessments, environmental compliance programs,
risk assessments and necessary documents for obtaining the Privatization Certificate. Other EU
programs include:
* The Environmental Auditor on Retainer 1 program (EUR 498,000) that is in progress, and
the Environmental Auditor on Retainer 2 program (EUR 850,000) that is expected to start
next year. These projects cover many other companies either sold or to be sold (or at least
offered for sale), including SIDEX, Rulmentul, Hidromecanica, Cost, UCMR, and Bicapa.
*  The Phare 2002 program. For this program, the APAPS's proposals will try to cover not only
technical assistance, but also environmental investments. The items could be: (i)
environmental improvements (EUR 53 million for technical assistance and investments); and
(ii) restructuring the large loss-making companies (EUR 12 million technical assistance).
APAPS must co-finance the investment component of the project with 25 percent of the total
cost for approximately EUR 12.5 million.
84.   Environmental Management Plans. As stipulated in Romania's Privatization Law, each
privatization carried out under PSAL II requires an environmental audit to be conducted that
outlines the environmental impact of the enterprise plants and operations and also specifies
44



related government and company environmental liabilities and obligations. These audits will
serve as the necessary Environmental Management Plans for the project. As the proposed
operation is a SECAL, the Bank will use these audits as the basis for environmental screening
and ratings. The World Bank will also reserve the right to review the environmental audits as
well as the Government's enforcement of any environmental liabilities and law following any
enterprise sale.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
85.   Bank Operations. Since FY91, the Bank has financed 32 operations totaling US$ 3.3
billion in commitments, of which US$ 596 million remained undisbursed as of December 31,
2001. Romania graduated from the "high risk country portfolio" category, and during much of
FY01 the portfolio was rated 100 percent satisfactory for the first time in many years.
Nonetheless, this progress remains fragile, and continued vigilance is required. Six operations are
on the watch list, as they continue to be at risk of deteriorating, and in FY02 we have seen a
slight deterioration of the portfolio, with two projects downgraded to unsatisfactory.
Significantly, these two projects are investment operations in the energy sector (Power Sector
Rehabilitation and Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation, respectively). Implementation of these two
operations has been delayed due to institutional and policy reform problems, which the PSAL II
program's energy sector reform component aims to unblock. Due to the restructuring measures
taken by the Govermnent, by mid FY02 Bank. More broadly, the Joint Portfolio Review (JPR)
held in Bucharest in March 2001 identified five areas that are causing a number of operations to
lag behind schedule: (i) implementation capacity, (ii) counterpart funding, (iii) financial
management, (iv) project readiness, and (v) accountability. Specific actions to address each of
these issues were agreed, including the designation of a high-level Government official to have
Bank portfolio oversight responsibility. Projects related to the proposed operation include PSAL
I, the first Private Sector Institution Building Loan (PIBL I) and the Industrial Development
Project (IDP) which are ongoing, and the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and the Financial
and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan (FESAL) which are completed. The proposed PIBL II
will support the technical assistance and capacity building requirements for the Government's
current reform program.
86.   Lessons Learned. The key lesson from past projects is the difficulty of implementing
ambitious reforms involving privatization, job losses and the imposition of hard budget
constraints without sufficient resources to ease the burden. Such ambitious reforms involve
financial hardship among citizens and political fallout among policy-makers. PSAL II provides
ample resources to cushion the hardship and is tied to needed structural reforms in both the
public and private sectors to promote sustainable growth under stable macroeconomic conditions.
The challenge under current circumstances will be whether the substantial resources provided
under PSAL II are sufficient in light of tight monetary and fiscal policy expected for the next few
years. PSAL II focuses on immediate financing needs in the social sector, medium-term reforms
for financial viability, institutional development for implementation of a sound incentive
framework, and coordinated technical assistance with other donors to assist in improving the
professionalism of management and planning.
45



87.   A second key lesson is that major public sector reform must complement private sector
development, particularly in the financial and enterprise sectors. In Romania, public
administration reform, judicial reform and anti-corruption measures are closely linked to the
development of an enabling environment for the business and financial sectors at all levels.
Likewise, privatization of SOEs and public sector banks, effective banking supervision, and a
modem regulatory structure for capital markets and the insurance sector are all prerequisites to
effective financial intermediation and prudent resource management. Without these, the economy
will not grow, investments will not materialize, public confidence in civil institutions will not
evolve, and the macroeconomic framework of the country will remain out of balance and
vulnerable. The inability to establish appropriate civil institutions and to grow economically will
also impede Romania's ability to assume the obligations of membership in the EU.
88.   The third lesson from past projects is that government implementation capacity is often
insufficient to implement complex reform programs effectively. The Government has established
a high level PMU to oversee implementation of the program. The PMU will be adequately
staffed and will have access to technical assistance as required with financing from the Bank.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
89.   The Bank closely coordinates with the IIMF and other donors in its adjustment operations
in Romania. PSAL II is closely linked to continued Government progress in areas where the IMF
has highlighted the need for continued effort. Recent progress between the Government and the
Fund in reaching a new Stand-by Arrangement indicates this program is on track.
90.   The Bank also coordinated closely with the European Union on structural adjustment
issues and how these link with Romania's efforts to negotiate accession to EU. While accession is
many years off, PSAL II is clearly focused on strengthening Romania's capacity to assume the
obligations of membership. These efforts are supported and endorsed by the EU that is
coordinating closely with the Bank via the Comprehensive Development Framework.
91.   The Bank has worked with the NGO community to provide assistance in mitigating the
costs of restructuring in areas affected by layoffs. The EU and DFID are working closely with the
Bank on social assistance. The EU is providing strong support for labor redeployment through
RICOP, and USAID is addressing pension reformn issues. The entire social protection reform
under PSAL II is being supported by the Bank's Social Sector Development Project, which went
to the Board in June 2001.
92.   Finally, EBRD and the Bank coordinated their efforts on privatization of the enterprise
and finance sectors and the Bank worked closely with DFID and USAID, particularly on banking
supervision and resolution, deposit insurance, and corporate governance and management.
46



VI. RECOMMENDATION
93.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington D.C.
April 15, 2002
47



Annex 1. KEYECONOMIC INDICATORS
Table Al. Main Macroeconomic Indicators
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996    1997   1998   1999   2000
Real Economy
Real GDP growth, %                -8.8    1.5   3.9    7.1     3.9    -6.1   -4.8   -2.3    1.6
Share of Industry in GDP, %      38.3   33.8   36.2   32.9    33.2   30.9    27.5   27.8   27.6
Unemployment rate (eop) %          7.4   9.5    10.9    8.9    6.3     8.8   10.5   11.8   10.5
Exchange rate
Lei per US$ (eop)                 433   1141   1774   2558   3750    7985  10951  18255  25926
Lei per US$ (average)             308   760.1  1655   2033   3084    7168   8876  15333  21693
Real effective rate (90=100)      57.6   79.8   85.8   83.9   75.8    88.4  114.9   97.8  107.1
Interest rates (eop), %                             I               _
3 month Thill rate                  na     52     62     45  63.26   98.59  75.95   64.1   51.0
NBR average int.rate              30.6  120.5   62.4  47.17  40.32    52.6  34.98     35
Bank lending rate                 43.6  86.41  61.81   47.5   53.6    55.6   58.9   62.0   49.2
Bank deposit rate                 32.9  42.47  49.49   32.4   38.9    34.1   42.3   41.3   28.6
Average lending money mkt
rate                                na    Na      na     na  51.69   102.4    159   68.9   47.3
Fiscal data, %
Revenues                          37.4   33.9   32.1   31.9   30.1    30.7     32   34.3   32.2
Expenditures                       42    34.2   33.9   34.5   34.1    34.3   35.6   36.3   35.9
Consolidated deficit (+),(-)surplus  -4.6  -0.4  -1.9  -2.5     -4    -3.6    3.6    -1.9  -3.7
Primary deficit (+), (-) - surplus        0.6   -0.5   -1.2   -2.3    -0.1    0.9    3.3    1.0
Money and credit growth                             I
FD/M2, %                          17.9     29  221.4   22.6   23.4    28.5   32.6   37.6   40.4
M2/GDP ratio                      28.9    9.1   21.5   25.4   28.9    24.9   27.3   25.7   23.2
Cu/GDP                             0.1      0      0      0      0       0      0      ..    ..
M2 growth (eop), %                80.2  140.9  138.1   71.6     66   104.8   48.9   45.0   38.0
MO growth, %                            114.6  151.2   44.6   67.9    34.4   82.8   88.5   43.1
CNG growth, %                     38.6  156.3   93.5   73.3   63.3    33.8   64.6   -2.3   30.0
CPI Inflation. Eop, %            199.2  295.5   61.7   27.8   56.9   151.6   40.6   54.8   40.7
CPI inflation, av. %             210.4  256.1  136.8   32.3   38.8   154.8   59.1  . 45.8  45.7
External Data, US$ billion
CA (w/o trans. Roubles trade)    -1.51  -1.23  -0.51   -1.73  -2.61   -2.33   -3.4    .._..
Trade Balance                    -1.37   -1.13  -0.48   -1.6  -2.49   -1.97  -2.63  -1.09  -1.68
Net external debt to GDP, %       16.6   16.1   18.5   18.6   23.5    26.5     23   25.7   26.9
Current Account to GDP, %           -8   -4.5   -1.4     -5   -7.3    -6.1     -7   -3.8   -3.8
Gross reserves in months of
imports                            1.6      2    3.8      2    2.4     4.4    2.7    2.8    3.4
Of which NBR                      0.2    0.1     1.1    0.4    0.6     2.5    1.6    1.6    2.1
48



Table A2. Selected Financial Sector Indicators
1992     1993      1994     1995     1996    1997    1998     1999     2000
CNG$/CNGtot        11.2      17.2     21.6     29.6     36.9    54.8    58.9     57.6     59.5
FD/CNG$           155.3      154       115      85      71.6    89.9    86.7    151.7    167.9
FD/M2              17.9       29     22.14     22.6     23.4    28.4    32.6     37.6     40.4
CNG/DEP           132.4     143.2     14.9    113.2    107.5    67.8      73       89      80
Cu/GDP              6.8       5.2      4.4      5.2      4.9     3.7     3.4       ..       ..
M2/GDP             28.9       9.1     21.5     25.4     28.9    24.9    27.3     25.7     23.2
CNGgrowth,         38.6     156.3     93.5     73.3     63.3    33.8    64.6     -2.3     30.0
M2 growth          80.2     140.9    138.1     71.6      66    104.8    48.9     45.0     38.0
MO growth            na     114.6    151.2     44.6     67.9    34 .4   82.8     88.5     43.1
CPIinf, eop         199      296        62      28       57     152       41     54.8     40.7
CPlinf av          200       227       139      35       45      15       59     45.8     45.7
EXR, eop, Lei/$    433      1141      1774    2558     3750    7985    10951    18255   25926
REER, IIF          57.6      79.8     85.8     83.9     75.8    88.4    114.9    97.8    107.1
49



Annex 2. TIME TABLE OF KEYPROCESSING EVENTS
Identification                      April 2000
Preparation                         May 2000
Preappraisal                         July 2001
Appraisal                        November 2001
Negotiations                      December 2001
Board                             May 2002
50



Annex 3. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
ROMANIA
PRIMUL MINISTRU
January 25, 2001
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn,
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington D.C.20433
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
I  Romania is in an important phase of its economic transition. Since the present Govemment
took office in December 2000, we have confirmed our commitment to structural reforms and
macroeconomic stabilization. We have also increased our efforts to reach agreements with
Intemational Financial Institutions for renewed support of our economic reform program.
Above all, the new government intends to continue working with the World Bank on the
Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) program to deepen and strengthen the reforms
launched by the previous Govemment in 1999. The Government of Romania recognizes that
the reforms are a central part of our strategy to set the economy on course toward sustainable
growth, development, and competitiveness, and we are committed at the highest levels of
Government to the program's successful implementation.
2  The Romanian economy has improved since 1999. Still, the country faces important
economic challenges, and the Govemment is determined to implement the necessary reforms
and create suitable conditions for long-term growth. We are highly encouraged that the
European Commission has recognized the substantial progress we made in 1998-1999. This
progress has been sufficient for Romania to have been invited to enter into negotiations for
European Union membership. We understand, however, that our present capacity to assume
the obligations of membership remains weak.
3. The Govermment intends to sustain the momentum and build on the success achieved under
the first PSAL to put the country on an irreversible path of market reform and economic
competitiveness. The broad goal is to create a conducive business environment, more
professional civil service, properly functioning judiciary, fully transformed legal framework,
stable financial sector, competitive markets, and efficient poverty reduction measures. We
intend to complete structural reforms in the banking and enterprise sector so that we can
move forward to the next level of modemization challenges, including in the energy and
power sector.
51



4     This letter addresses our request for a second Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL
II). The objective of this operation is to further enhance the role of the private sector in
the economy by building on progress achieved under the first PSAL and deepening and
strengthening the Government's reform efforts. To this end, the operation will focus on
five main tasks: (i) final privatization of the banking sector and stable financial
intermediation based on a comprehensive legal, regulatory and institutional framework
consistent with emerging global trends; (ii) sale, privatization and workout of the
remaining state enterprise sector under transparent and marketbased conditions; (iii)
energy sector reform to increase private participation, open the sector to competition,
and put the sector on sounder financial ground by reducing arrears and correcting
distortionary tariff schedules; (iv) improvements in the business environment to promote
private sector growth; and (v) enhanced effectiveness in providing social protection,
creating a sustainable pension program, and better targeting and implementing poverty
reduction measures.
5. In all of these tasks, we intend to work in close cooperation with the World Bank. This
collaboration we hope will extend well beyond the proposed PSAL program to other
future projects and initiatives. Our inclusion in the Bank's Comprehensive Development
Framework, which Romania requested, has been a first step in this direction. We
appreciate the support of the Bank's PSAL team in working with us to make the policy
matrix we have developed a truly joint effort. This strong sense of cooperation and
collegiality originated with the previous Government, and has been carried on by the
current Government. We appreciate this continuity and believe it reflects a well grounded
relationship. We hope that these initiatives, combined with our underling partnership,
will help us to shape and implement a strategy capable of enhancingithe living conditions
of our citizens in a lasting way.
REFORMS TO ACGHEVE SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
6. Romania's financial position has improved since mid-1999, when the country's external
debt service was at its highest level.. We have been able to meet our obligations
according to schedule and our foreign exchange position has improved, though there is
still room for further improvement. This year our official reserves are sufficient to cover
more than three months of imports. While this represents progress, we are still not
satisfied with this level of coverage, and we seek to implement reforms that will provide
us with stronger coverage in the future. The improvements in the foreign exchange
position in 1999 emanated from a contraction of domestic demand, and a consequent fall
in imports. These facts improved the current account position initially, but export trade
levels still reflected a relatively uncompetitive economy, particularly in many industries
that were and still are in the process of major transformation. More recently, we have
experienced a reversal in these trends. Domestic demand has increased significantly,
buoyed in 2000 by the first year of real GDP growth since 1996, wage increases, a
material increase in export eamings (reflecting rising competitiveness due to reform
efforts), and an even greater surge of imports due to our enterprise sector's re-tooling
effort to achieve competitiveness in export-led industries.
7. While we are now estimating 4.9 percent real GDP growth in 2001-our highest level of
output growth since 1995-these trends are also resulting in a substantial increase in our
current account deficit, projected to reach 6 percent. We believe the structure of this
deficit is important to consider, as it is largely the result of an effort by our
export-oriented industries to re-tool for future competitiveness, the benefits of which will
accrue to the economy in the coming years. While the balance of payment deficit has
been financed in a mostly autonomous manner, we recognize that this deficit needs to be
controlled.
52



Banking and Financial Sector Reforms
8. There is still an opportunity to improve our domestic banking system, and we will
address its problems with greater determination than in the past. For years, state-owned
banks were forced to act as one of the "buffers" which would absorb the losses generated
by state-owned enterprises. In addition, such banks pursued bad lending policies.
Therefore, by 1998, large state-owned banks, with portfolios dominated by bad loans and
lacking effective governance, represented a systemic threat. Under PSAL I, we removed
the license of Bancorex, privatized Banc Post, the Romanian Bank for Development, and
more recently Banca Agricola, and strengthened the general regulatory and institutional
framework for banking. These reforms, carried out in close cooperation with the World
Bank, initiated the process of reform to modernize the financial sector and introduce
better standards and practices to mitigate specific risks.
9. Second, beyond privatization of the banking sector, we need to transform the entire
incentive' system to ensure that financial institutions meet the needs of our economy in a
manner that is sound, stable, and efficient. Our banks need proper governance and
management in keeping with intemational norms. For this reason, we seek to create an
environment that is attractive to strategic, prime-rated institutions and investors. This
environment is already emerging with regard to the three privatizations noted above, all
of which occurred with capital and management from strategic investors with sound
reputations in the international marketplace. Such an environment is not only mandatory
for sustainable growth, but it is also essential as a signal to our European counterparts that
we are serious about economic reform.
10 As a third step, we need to move forward in the securities and insurance sectors to build
viable financial markets that render the kinds of services needed for a modern economy.
We need to establish a sensible legal and regulatory framework to provide the required
oversight to support financial sector stability. We recognize that financial sector
stability is also dependent on proper governance and management at the financial
institutions themselves. We, thus, need to ensure that we have accounted for
institutional and systemic risk, which requires a sound guarantee scheme and that all
institutions engaged in imprudent risk-taking are penalized and liquidated when
necessary.
11. The continued restructuring and privatization of the banking sector, expanded efforts for
a fully operational secondary market for Government securities, and additional technical
assistance and investments in infrastructure and institutional support should result in a
financial sector better positioned to withstand sudden shocks and to intermediate funds
in a safe and sound manner that supports sustainable economic growth. In light of very
recent developments in global markets, we are pleased to report that our position has
remained stable, indicating that our institutional and structural capacity to withstand
shocks and unanticipated developments is increasing. Notwithstanding the mid-2000
failures in the financial sector (including the National Investment Fund), we are
encouraged by the relative stability of the Leu during that period, -and the ability of the
National Bank to provide sufficient liquidity to meet deposit withdrawals at bank
branches. Our public communications strategy proved successful in reinforcing public
confidence in the institutions in which bank deposits were placed. While the National
Bank's liquidity was provided to prevent systemic risk from arising, monetary policy
measures were also undertaken to prevent inflationary consequences from the liquidity
provided. However, the mid-2000 incidents also signaled the public perception of an
underlying fragility of our banks, and we seek to transform this perception based on an
improved performance resulting from objectives mapped out under the PSAL II
program.
53



12. The Government has agreed to meet the targets for structural adjustment under the
Stand-by Arrangement reached with the IMF. The targets include moving forward on the
restructuring and privatization (or liquidation) of loss-making banks and enterprises.
Continued strengthening of supervisory capacity of the National Bank has accompanied
efforts at structural reforms in the banking sector, and this will assist with the
implementation of monetary policy and efforts to create underlying stability in the
banking sector and financial markets. Such underlying stability is crucial for movement
into capital markets development, both for GOR securities as well as for corporate bonds
and equities, and for development of a sound, stable and well regulated insurance
market. To this end, the Government will reach agreement with the World Bank on a
detailed package of structural reforms in the financial and the enterprise sectors, with a
clear focus on stabilizing and modernizing the financial sector in support of a sound
macroeconomic framework.
Enterprise Reform
13. In addition to reform in the financial sector, progress' over the medium and long term
means accelerated reform of the enterprise sector. A broadly loss-making enterprise
sector continually forces upon the economy the task of compensating for aggregate
losses somewhere else in the system. Most commonly, these losses translate into the
accumulation of payment arrears. The tax authorities, other enterprises (especially
public utilities), and banks carry the burden of such losses, which ultimately are covered
by taxpayers. In addition, this compensating mechanism creates disincentives to comply
with tax payments and sets in motion the vicious cycle of low public confidence in
government institutions, tax avoidance, fiscal revenue shortfalls,,..and the iriability of
the Government to provide needed social services and protection to restore confidence
and reverse this cycle.
14. A decisive program of restructuring, centered on a massive sell-off of state-owned
enterprises and the liquidation of non-privatizable ones, needs to continue. Under PSAL
I, the Govemment made substantial progress, but about 600 commercial companies in
which the state holds a majority position remain with APAPS. The implementation of a
strict macroeconomic policy will need to continue to enforce hard budget constraints on
those parts of the economy that have acted as a buffer for these losses for too long. Thus,
a new approach to regulatory oversight, tariff liberalization, and outright privatization
will be applied to the energy sector to modemize facilities and service delivery while
curtailing the use of these companies as a new web of financing for inefficient and
insufficiently restructured state enterprises. The restructuring and /or sale of the three
remaining state-owned banks is also a reform that will help accomplish this same
purpose.
Accelerating Private Sector Development
15. The social and human costs of the reform program in the short term are potentially
large. After years of lagging reforms, with productivity on the decline and altemative
employment opportunities rare, large parts of the population understandably grew averse
to reform rhetoric that provided no immediate or tangible benefits to the general
population. While this situation is slowly changing, as evidenced by 4.9 percent real
growth estimated for 2001 and the first prospects for single-digit unemployment in
years, opposition to reform still exists. Powerful interest groups remain entrenched,
siphoning off funds from an economy short on financial resources, At the same time, the
financial means to offer social protection will continue to shrink until economic growth
can absorb those who lost their incomes due to enterprise restructuring or liquidation.
This raises the problem of how to accelerate growth in a competitive new private sector
that is capable of compensating at least partially for lost opportunities in the public
sector.
54



16. New private enterprises in Romania face conditions that so far have prevented the
emergence of a flourishing business sector. Incomplete legislation, distorted and uneven
investment incentives, a cumbersome bureaucracy, antiquated administrative barriers,
limited capacity to enforce the existing rules and regulations, and corruption all
undermine private sector growth. By extension, these constraints raise the costs of
reform and restrict the Govermment's room to maneuver. These constraints narrow the
tax base and increase social costs by limiting the chances of dismissed workers to find
employment elsewhere. They also create incentives for firms to avoid registration,
resulting in a class of small and micro firms that do not pay taxes and lack the capacity
to provide secure employment. These businesses are undercapitalized, and their capacity
to develop beyond a certain size remains constrained by their insecure economic status.
Moreover, competition with an unofficial sector that is not subject to taxation increases
the relative costs for new and legitimate businesses. All of these weaknesses combine to
raise the risk associated with direct investment, from domestic as well as intemational
sources.
17. The importance of growth in the new private sector is indispensable to progress in
capital markets development and general financial sector modemization. Without these,
Romania will also find that its negotiations with the European Commission will stall on
entry into the EU and, over time, the EMU. Comprehensive reform of public
administration will need to progress, to promote increased professionalism and
efficiency as part of the larger effort to modemize civil institutions. This reform is
expected to parallel efforts in the financial sector to ensure that market capacity and
development are dynamic, yet within a comprehensive legal and regulatory framework
in support of sound and sustainable growth policies. Aseurrently envisaged by the
Government, in the medium term, the civil servants will be highly regarded
professionals able to provide essential public services to the private sector and
households at large. Such professionalism will be characterized by quality of service
delivery, fair compensation, and the eradication of corruption. These measures will be
accompanied by development of a strong judiciary to provide a legitimate institutional
basis for dispute resolution and observance of property rights.
Reformns Proposed Under PSAL II
18. The Govemment has already established a solid track record and achieved substantial
progress in recent years, as indicated by our successful implementation of PSAL I ahead
of schedule. We accomplished this not only under difficult circumstances domestically,
but also at a time when we experienced an adverse impact on trade and regional
relations resulting from instability in the Balkan region. To sustain this progress and
momentum, we request your support in further pursuit of economic reform in Romania
under PSAL II. Your co-operation would be appreciated as an essential element in
achieving our reform goals.
19. The envisaged PSAL 11 program is designed to address the most pressing issues
outlined above. While providing urgently needed support, the program helps build a
more stable economic and fiscal base that will foster progress in the future and will
support necessary reforms.
20. To summarize, we propose the following reforms in five broad areas: (i) the
restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks within a comprehensive and sound
legal and institutional incentive framework, development of transparent and properly
functioning securities markets, and improvement in the framework for the insurance
sector; (ii) the liquidation and privatization of state-owned enterprises; (iii) the
restructuring of public utilities; (iv), the improvement of the business environment; and
(v) mitigation of social costs of enterprise restructuring, and introduction of effective
poverty reduction measures. We outline the specific proposed measures in each broad
area below.
55



MACROECONOMIC OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
21. The macroeconomic situation in 2000 showed improvement from earlier years,
registering positive real growth of 1.6 percent after three consecutive years of negative
growth. Current estimates show output growth of 4.9 percent in 2001. While the 1999
current account decreased, it increased in 2000/2001 as industries began to re-tool for
enhanced competitiveness. Imports exceeded exports despite an increase in the latter.
This trend has continued, particularly with regard to imports, leading to a deepening of
our current account deficit. While we are optimistic that these imports represent critical
investment in export-oriented industries that will benefit our economy in the coming
years, we are also mindful of the need to monitor and track developments. It is our goal
to reduce the current account deficit in the coming years and to improve
competitiveness. However, this critical juncture indicates our significant need for
balance of payments support. Despite relative fiscal restraint, we experienced a
consolidated fiscal deficit of nearly 4 percent in 2000, much increased the deficit
achieved in 1999. Current estimates show that we brought our deficit down modestly to
an estimated 3,5 percent of GDP in 2001. This high deficit has been due to efforts to
stimulate demand during a strict disinflationary period characterized by the lowest
year-on-year money growth figures since the transition began. However, in the process
we may have induced excessive domestic demand, which has been partly responsible for
the higher current account deficit, and slower than expected progress in bringing down
the inflation rate.
22: The Government has reached agreement with the IMF on the main macroeconomic
objectives for 2001-2002 as the basis for a new Stand-By Arrangement. These objectives
are a continuation of past efforts at macroeconomic stabilization, including the reduction
of the fiscal deficit to no more than 3.5 percent of GDP in 2001, and continued monetary
targeting to further reduce inflation to the 30 percent year-end 2001 range and to 22
percent by end 2002. This would compare with 40 percent at end 2000, and SS percent
at end 1999. Tight monetary and fiscal policies will be pursued, pointing to the need for
official assistance to accommodate the financial and social costs of structural reform and
privatization. As in 1999-2001, fiscal and monetary policy will be employed in tandem
with a policy of controlled devaluation under a managed floating exchange rate regime
on the one hand; and by implementing steps to control real wage growth through wage
ceilings and tied incomes policy on the other. There is now recognition that public sector
wage increases in 2000 were partly responsible for our less than total fulfillment of
original performance targets and objectives for 2001. We also recognize that the
inter-enterprise arrears problems in the state sector have also contributed to these trends.
At all times, we are focused on maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework and
building foundation for sustainable growth and future accession to the EU. Recent
issuances in the intemational bond market in 2000/2001 indicate that we have achieved
success on this front.
23. Under PSAL II, we hope to further develop safeguards against systemic risk by
implementing the macroeconomic framework recently agreed with the Intemational
Monetary Fund and by pursuing additional structural reforms. As a result, we will have
to speed up our efforts and take radical measures to privatize remaining state banks and
enterprises, including in the important energy sector. The macroeconomic policies
agreed with the Fund have helped to stimulate real GDP growth, to bring down
unemployment rates from 1999 levels, and to reduce inflation rates and interest rates.
On the latter front, we benefited in 2001 from a reduction in average loan and deposit
rates, which also indicates that monetary and macroeconomic reforms are combining
with needed structural improvements to make lending more sustainable and affordable.
We intend to continue with our anti-inflationary policies, with the goal of bringing down
our year-end CPI and inflation rate from 40.7 percent in 2000 to 22 percent in 2002. The
fiscal deficit is programmed to decline to 3 percent in 2002 and remain at this level
thereafter.
56



We will maintain a managed floating exchange rate regime that, together with interest
rate adjustments, will ensure that our external imbalances remain within stable and
manageable bounds.
RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION OF STATE-OWNED BANKS
24. The Government intends to support a privatization process that guarantees the effective
transfer of control from Government to the private sector. No "golden-share"
arrangement will be considered, and at least 51 percent of each bank's share will be
transferred to reputable private investors or 90 percent to the public, if those shares are
publicly tradable on an organized market (BSE or RASDAQ). The aim of allowing for a
flotation is to stimulate the development of secondary securities markets and to prepare
a direct source of finance for Romanian enterprises. However, we recognize the
importance for strategic investment for proper governance and management of our
banking institutions as the fastest and most efficient track to modernization. We also
believe this is the most constructive way to boost confidence in the underlying stability
and safety of our major deposit-taking institutions.
25. The Government's top priority is thus to improve.the effectiveness of the financial
system by continuing to introduce sound banking standards and a healthy, competitive
environment, consistent with Basel standards and EU directives. The process began with
the privatization of Banca Romana pentru Dezvoltare (BRD) in December 1998 and the
completion of the sale of the SOF's controlling position in Banc Post in March 1999. We
removed the license of Bancorex in July 1999 and initiated a comprehensive
restructuring program for Banca Agricola, which led to its eventual privatization in
mid-2001. However, these experiences with bank privatization also demonstrate the
need to build a system laden with incentives for prudent intermediation and modern risk
management capacity.
26. To sustain progress, we intend to focus on the final privatization and restructuring of
remaining state-owned banks with the overall goal of ending Government ownership of
public banks. In particular, we will move forward with the privatization of BCR and
CEC, and plan to modify the legislation goveming the EXIM Bank to cease its
commercial banking activities and become a specialized export-import financial
institution. A Feasibility Study, acceptable to the Bank, will be prepared on the role of
the EXIM Bank in promoting export and import activities in Romania. We expect to
complete the privatization of BCR by the end of 2002. CEC privatization will be
completed after needed restructuring actions. The ongoing restructuring process of
EXIM Bank will be evidenced by progress reports in compliance with agreed timeline
benchmarks stipulated in the restructuring plan. The completion of EXIlvI Bank's
restructuring program will occur by 2002-03. These transactions will effectively end
state ownership in the banking sector, thereby finalizing the privatization of the domestic
banking system. This will open up the market to increased competition and should help
with the modernization of the financial sector as a whole.
27. To reduce the potential for systemic risk, we initiated the program for bringing credit
cooperatives under the regulatory umbrella of the NBR. We amended the Law on Credit
Cooperatives in line with the Banking Law to rationalize their role in the Romanian
banking system, and to bring them under the direct supervision and regulation of the
NBR to prevent any spillover to the formal banking system. The NBR will complete the
initial licensing, setting-up and final licensing of credit cooperatives, as evidenced by
progress reports in 2002.
57



28. As part of our efforts to ensure financial sector stability, we plan to move shortly to
consolidated supervision of the banking system. We recognize the cross-sectoral risks in
the financial system and the need to provide proper oversight of these risks. We will
supervise banking, securities, insurance institutions, and other financial intermediaries
which are essential for a modem economy, but which carry risks if not properly overseen
by regulators and market players. This supervision may entail strengthening the legal
framework, through laws and judicial capacity enhancement, to close insolvent, illiquid,
and mismanaged institutions and, as needed, penalize their board members and senior
managers. On this note, we plan to work closely with the World Bank, EU, and other
donors in developing the proper incentive structure for financial sector development in a
manner consistent with international standards and best practices.
29. To strengthen creditors' rights and thereby create better incentives for lending, the
Govemment will introduce a set of new laws and regulations. These new laws will result
in a better framework for risk-taking and risk management in the financial sector. The
expected benefits are greater and better managed resource flows in support of a more
viable economy and financial sector. We will put in place a comprehensive program to
enhance and improve the administration of collateral and bankruptcy laws, as well as the
enforcement of creditors' rights to encourage deepening of financial intermediation.
These moves are expected to strengthen creditors' rights that should increase banks'
willingness to lend.
30. We plan to strengthen tax policies and procedures for banks to recognize losses in a
timely manner. We will bring tax provisions broadly in line with EU and intemational
standards. These areas will include portfolio risk classification and provisioning, limiting
exposures in companies against which bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings have been
initiated, write-offs against provisions, and the tax deductibility of loan loss provisions.
These changes will put Romanian banking legislation on a more stable foundation. They
will also be consistent with recent emergency ordinances regarding cross-sectoral
financing of banks with regard to investment funds, guarantees, advertising, and general
savings mobilization efforts on the part of both banks and non-banks. In brief, we will
move towards accounting and supervision of consolidated risks, in recognition of the
eventual formation and activity of complex institutions in the Romanian marketplace as
an extension of the European and global market.
31. The Government places a high priority on the development of the capital markets as a
natural extension of structural reforms. The focus of its development efforts will be on
laws, regulations and overall infrastructure to modernize our capital markets.
Modernization will include a program to strengthen the institutional capacity of the
National Securities Commission, the establishment of comprehensive securities
legislation, and the harmonization of tax policies for debt and equity instruments. We
recognize the close linkage between banks and non-banks within the broader and
consolidated financial sector arena, and how this relates to a stable macroeconomic
framework. This will be the context for our financial sector modernization program. To
provide a stimulus to capital markets development, we will develop appropriate
operational policies, procedures and eligibility criteria for entry and exit of other
non-bank financial institutions to participate in the secondary market for Government
securities. We intend to use BSE as one of the secondary market vehicles in the trading
of Government securities.
32. To strengthen the payment and clearing system, we shifted full NBR ownership to a
corporatized system with two-thirds ownership by the commercial banks operating in
Romania and one-third ownership by the NBR. Full automation of the Large Value
Payment Process and Electronic Payment and Clearing System, including Real Time
Gross Settlement, will occur. This will make it easier for NBR and the banks to manage
liquidity, and will support underlying stability in the banking and monetary system.
58



33. We have already initiated accounting reform under the PSAL I and will sustain it under
PSAL II. The comprehensive introduction of IAS and Standards of External Audit
(SEA) for all commercial banks in Romania and for the NBR will be introduced by mid
2003. Bringing Romanian banks and financial institutions in line with international
accounting standards (LAS) is a fundamental prerequisite to achieving needed reform
for underlying stability in the financial sector. This, in turn, will help banks and other
creditors and investors to impart financial discipline through the real sector. All banks
are expected to be fully compliant with IAS and SEA for internal and extemal financial
reporting and disclosure by end 2003. NBR will also apply IAS and SEA to its own
operations.
34. The Government wants to strengthen confidence in the safety of deposits and the banks
holding them. The best measure is a prudently managed banking system that manages
risk in a manner that protects the value of its deposit and overall funding base. Beyond
that, a deposit guaranty provides confidence among depositors in the underlying safety,
soundness, and stability of the banking sector. We intend to assess the current guaranty
and develop an action plan modeled on guidelines prescribed in EU directives
concerning deposit insurance, combined with other features that reinforce strong
banking systems. This will be consolidated in its scope, and will be connected to
stronger legislation and institutional capacity (judicial and regulatory) to conduct
resolution activities (bank closures, purchase and assumption, etc.) in support of a stable
environment for deposit mobilization and safekeeping. This should help to increase
savings through formal financialh.intermediarie§. New legislation that is acceptable to
the Bank and in harmony with EU directives, including the powers and span of authority
of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the liquidation process of the credit institutions, will
be undertaken. The implementation of the necessary actions to strengthen the Deposit
Guarantee Fund, evidenced by quarterly progress reports, will start by fall 2002.
35. The NBR has created a Credit Information Bureau to make available to financial
institutions consolidated data on their borrowing clients, and has developed a Payment
Incidence Bureau providing a history of payment failures by client. The NBR is fostering
a credit culture and intends to encourage market development of credit information and
rating services as well as to encourage financial institutions to use them. The market has
developed very quickly recently, and there are currently seven companies that provide
credit information and ratings on corporate entities. Additionally, there are two
companies in the stage of developing this capacity, one of which will supply credit
information on individuals. In line with the above, a Feasibility Study acceptable to the
Bank will be developed to assess the interface between the individual banks' credit
scoring systems with the NBR's Credit Information Bureau in order to determine
borrower creditworthiness. A regulatory analysis will be undertaken to identify the need
for incorporation of a general guideline where the banks will be encouraged to either
provide internally such an analysis and rating and/or to integrate into their
methodologies the information and ratings provided by outside parties.
36. Finally, we recognize the indispensable need for a sound insurance sector as banks and
private insurers eventually become involved, and as a range of life and non-life products
are increasingly in demand. The presence of well capitalized and well managed insurers
will stimulate growth of contractual savings and provide businesses with products and
services that are needed. Their presence should also increase public interest in the
second pillar of the envisaged pension reform, highlighting the need for personal
financial planning and increased private savings as part of the larger effort to create a
stronger economy and increased personal wealth.
59



37. The Government, in collaboration with the World Bank, has developed an
implementation plan for its financial sector reform program. The plan describes the
actions the Government intends to take in addition to those outlined in the PSAL II
policy matrix. The plan is attached to this letter and will be closely monitored to ensure
continuing progress in this area.
38. The losses that finally emerge as bad loans in a bank's portfolio, or as arrears to the
budget and between enterprises, are generated by inefficient state-owned enterprises.
State-owned banks, the budget and public utilities have played the role of temporary
shock absorbers that, at best, delayed what could have been a collapse. With severe
economic contraction and erosion of our balance of payment position coming to a head
in 1999, we came to the recognition that radical changes needed to be introduced to
avert a serious crisis.
PRIVATIZATION AND LIQUIDATION OF STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES
39. With regard to enterprise privatization, this Government has already made considerable
progress. While many of the newly privatized firms represent small and medium sized
companies, we have also had considerable success in sectors such as
telecommunications (Romtelecom), banking (RBD, Banc Post and Banca Agricola), and
oil refineries (Petromidia). We recently signed a privatization deal for SUJ7EX, one of
the region's largest steel producers. However, we still have about 600 commercial
companies in the APAPS portfolio in which the state holds a majority position. We need
to bring this chapter to a close so we can move: forward with-private sector
development.
40. We intend to move forward and finalize enterprise privatization by using a variety of
methods. We will pursue case-by-case privatizations, workouts and liquidations.
Qualified investment banks or sales agents will be retained for these services, and sales
will take place though open international competitive tenders to strategic buyers. This
will include the offer for sale and intended privatization of at least eight large
state-owned enterprises (including SIDEX, ALRO, ALPROM), the restructuring of
TAROM, and the workout of an additional five large state-owned enterprises carried
forward from PSAL I. New sales offers, privatizations and workouts will also involve an
additional 20 large enterprises. Pool privatization will again be used for the sale of 30 or
more enterprises carried forward from PSAL I.
41. In this regard, we also wish to point out our sincere interest in working with the Bank to
review transactions processes for new sales and workouts. Unlike SOF procedures and
practices under PSAL L, we intend to request more active monitoring by the World Bank
(without step-by-step involvement) in reviewing our handling of short lists,
pre-qualification, and awarding of contracts. This goes beyond the earlier cooperation
we received from the World Bank in the form of No Objection status, and is intended to
reduce criticism at home and abroad on the transparency and professionalism of the
sales, privatization and workout process. It is our hope that such standards will resonate
in the international marketplace, and send a signal that Romania's reputation is sound as
a destination for investment.
42. Less than 600 commercial companies in which the state holds a majority position remain
with APAPS. These include the companies under the PSALI and PSALII programs and
priority will be given to the privatization of these enterprises. The privatization under
these two programs will be conducted and concluded over the next two years. In parallel,
during this period, at least 10 large state-owned enterprises, 300 small and medium
state-owned enterprises, and another 100 companies in which APAPS holds residual
shares will be privatized. APAPS will undertake all necessary actions to divest the
remaining portfolio either through sale of shares or assets.
60



43. The Government, in collaboration with the World Bank, has developed an
implementation plan for its privatization program. The plan describes the actions the
Government intends to take in addition to those outlined in the PSAL HI policy matrix
(for SIDEX, ALRO, ALPROM, and new pool privatizations). The plan is attached to
this letter and will be closely monitored to ensure continuing progress in this area.
ENERGY SECTOR REFORM
44. We intend to reduce the use of the energy sector as a source of soft credit through
subsidies and arrears for loss-making state enterprises. As such, we intend to pursue
major reforms that involve a new legal and regulatory framework, sales and privatization
in the oil, gas and power distribution and generation sectors, and reductions in arrears to
ensure sound financing for utilities.
45. In the gas sector, we have already unbundled the previous company "Romgaz" into
Romgaz II (exploration, production and storage company), Transgaz (gas transmission
company) and Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud (distribution companies). The
Government provides its assurance that there will be no "rebundling" of the three
functions involving (i) exploration and production, (ii) transmission, and (iii)
distribution. Since gas storage is a regulated business, the Government will ensure that
gas storage access will be provided in a nondiscriminatory manner to all gas producing
companies in Romania including new licensees.
46. The Government will prepare by first tranche release of PSAL II an inventory of existing
private gas distribution companies to evaluate the existing level of private sector
participation in the sector, and will notify the World Bank on the results of the survey.
The Government intends over the next two years to further increase the involvement of
the private sector and will offer for sale its holdings in the gas sector by starting with gas
distribution. We will ensure that in 2003 both DistriGaz Sud and DistriGaz Nord are
offered for sale. The Govemment intends to hire a privatization advisor using a
transparent competitive tender to assist in the offer for sale and privatization of the two
existing 'gas distribution companies by the end of the second quarter of 2002. In
addition, we will carry out the pre-privatization studies with the support of the advisor,
and analyze and agree upon the plans with the World Bank. By second tranche, we
intend to have offered for sale both gas distribution companies to strategic investors
using a transparent tender process. Furthermore, we will explore the possibility to attract
private capital for the increase of gas storage capacity, as a part of the privatization
process of Romgaz II (exploration and production).
47. By March 31, 2002, the Government will amend the relevant legislation to enable the
gas regulatory agency (ANRGN) to function with autonomy and independence. We will
ensure that the President, Vice President and members of the regulatory committee of
ANRGN are all fulltime officials of ANRGN and not part-time civil servants. We also
intend to ensure the security of tenure of the President, Vice President and members of
the regulatory committee of ANRGN by making it impossible to remove them from
office during their tenure, except on the basis of death, serious illness, resignation or
proven misconduct. We will also ensure that ANRGN reports directly to the Prime
Minister, and will be coordinated by the Ministry of Industry and Resources to ensure
the appearance of independence. We will also ensure that the reporting relationship of
the National Agency for Mineral Resources follows a similar approach.
61



48. To facilitate the privatization process, we will regulate ownership rights of the gas
distribution companies so that local administrations do not have ownership rights over
gas distribution pipelines and to move pipelines into the private domain of the state to
enable the distribution companies to legally own these fixed assets. We intend to
accomplish this objective by mid-2002.
49. The Govemment will take all actions necessary to limit cross-ownership among the
companies engaged in the three functions in the gas chain (exploration and production,
transmission and distribution), prior to March 31, 2002. These limits will protect
consumers from transactions that would otherwise not be at arms length, and ensure that
competition in the sector is not adversely affected.
50. In the oil sector, the Government has already issued regulations that will ensure that the oil
pipeline company Conpet functions as a common carrier with equal non-discriminatory
access to all concerned parties. In addition, prior to first tranche release of PSAL II, the
Government will also issue legislation that regulates the oil import infrastructure operated
by the Oil Terminals Company. The Government will make certain that no ownership or
administration links are attached to either Conpet or Oil Terminals with any companies
with oil refining or oil trading activities in Romania. In the case of Conpet, the
Government has insisted that it also has no linkages with exploration and production
companies.
51. Petrom-the state-owned vertically integrated oil company-is the major oil marketer in
Romania, and supplies over 50 percent of the gasoline and diesel consumed. It owns
about onethird of the retail sites, and many of the intermediate storage facilities. In
general, we will review the levels of competition in the industry and take the necessary
measures to foster an adequate competition in the market place. We will give access,
under non-discriminatory conditions, to a common carrier established by merging
Petrotrans with Conpet. This will also further the objective of creating a competitive
business environment. We intend to offer for sale and privatize at least 51 percent of
Petrom by open tender to strategic investors, and by second tranche the sales process
will be under way.
52. The Romanian oil market is already fully liberalized, and there are no price controls.
The natural gas market has been liberalized to the extent that 10 percent of total sales in
the country can be acquired directly by 18 eligible consumers who can negotiate for gas
supplies directly with producers and importers. We will increase this percentage as and
when we get fresh applications from persons who qualify under the ANRGN regulations
for such accreditation.
53. The Government will see that the gas commodity price will be entirely market-based,
and will be freely negotiated by distribution companies and eligible consumers on the
one hand, and producers and exporters on the other hand. The Government will not seek
to influence these price negotiations. ANRGN will, before permitting the gas price as an
allowable expense, review the negotiated contracts to check whether they are
arms-length negotiations, carried out in good faith, and whether the prices are market
based and have a reasonable relationship to import prices and substitute fuel prices.
Otherwise, ANRGN will not seek to regulate the gas commodity price.
54. Gas transmission and distribution will provide for full non-discriminatory third party
access, and their tariffs will be regulated in a transparent manner based on cost of
service regulation by ANRGN. The Government has approved a schedule of distribution
tariffs for the nine categories of consumers. The gas regulatory authority will further
- refine this tariff methodology by March 31, 2002 and an appropriate pricing policy for
the distribution sector will be adopted during 2002. The Government will not interfere
in the price setting mechanism adopted by ANRGN and will allow the prices notified by
ANRGN to prevail. Grants, if needed for poorer households, will be properly targeted
and will come from a specific line item in the local budget.
62



55. As soon as practical, the Government intends to adjust the prices consumers will pay as
per the ANGRN's announced policies. As a first step, the Govemment has already
increased residential tariffs to those of other consumers, and we intend to adjust them
quarterly to maintain them at this level (US$ 82.50 per 1000 cubic meters) in real terms.
56. The Government fully recognizes that the level of nonpayment in the oil and gas sectors
is not sustainable. Therefore, the Government has decided that it will introduce a
program of actions to address this problem on an urgent basis. The basic position of the
Government, as will be contained in a Govemment announcement prior to PSAL 1I first
tranche, is that consumers who do not pay for oil and gas will have their service
discontinued. In addition, the performance of senior executives will be periodically
evaluated in accordance with their contracts, and their bonuses will be subsequently
determined. The Government has issued an emergency ordinance that will allow escrow
accounts in a commercial bank between producer/district heating companies and the gas
distribution companies that will be used to administer regular payments to all parties.
The escrow account will receive customer payments, contributions from municipalities
(estimated in advance on a quarterly basis), and the subsidies of the state. In addition,
the Govemment will provide budgetary assistance to Termoelectrica on a monthly basis
so that the cash collection targets for the gas distribution companies can be met.
57. It is anticipated that gas prices at the wellhead will increase as prices to consumers
reach economic levels and will approach, import parity. In view of this, the Govemment
will undertake a review, using outside experts, of the fiscal regime of ROMGAZ II and
Petrom to see if it is appropriate. By Board Date, the selection of the consultants will be
under way.
58. In the electricity sector, we have unbundled the previous company CONEL into four
separate joint stock companies: Electrica, the national distribution company;
Transelectrica, the national transmission and load dispatch company; Tertnoelectrica, the
producer of electricity and heat from fossil fuel plants; and Hidroelectrica, the producer
of hydroelectric power. We have also established Opcom, a separate subsidiary of
Transelectrica, as the market operator. We are now in the process of further unbundling
Electrica into eight distribution companies consistent with the recommendations of
BNP-Paribas. Termoelectrica will be reorganized to ensure appropriate focus on
electricity and district heat production, with a view to improve overall efficiency and
gradually transfer the heat production plants to the local admninistrations. In consultation
with the Bank, the Government will develop and implement a three-year program for
operational and financial improvement in Termoelectrica, which will include specific
monitorable targets of progress and performance in this regard. A major power plant,
Deva, will be divested in a separate company under Termoelectrica as a first step
towards creating viable companies to attract the much needed private capital for
rehabilitation. The Government provides its assurance that there will be no "rebundling"
of the generation, transmission, and distribution.
59. The Government will conclude the offer for sale and privatization of two of Electrica's
eight distribution companies during 2002, and intends to sell and privatize the remaining
distribution companies successively thereafter. The Government will also adopt a
strategy for privatization of the electricity generation sector in conjunction with a review
of the options for establishing a competitive wholesale market before second tranche.
The Government will seek strategic investors in the sector to attract capital and modem
commercial and managerial expertise.
63



60. The Govemment's role will shift from dominant ownership to effective regulation of a
competitive, multi-participant sector with both public and private ownership and
management. In order to enable the regulatory agency (ANRE) to function with
autonomy and independence, we will ensure the security of tenure of the President,
Vice President and members of the regulatory committee consistent with international
best practice to provide regulatory credibility and certainty. Accordingly, we will also
ensure that ANRE reports to the Prime Minister directly and is coordinated by the
Ministry of Industry and Resources.
61. To facilitate the privatization process, we will ensure that all electricity distribution
network components and assets are transferred from the public domain to the private
domain of the state so as to avoid interference by local administrations. We intend to
accomplish this by mid-2002. The Govemment has reviewed the entire legal framework
for the sector with a view to adopting a modern framework consistent with international
best practice and will ensure its adoption as soon as possible.
62. We have adopted regulations to promote wholesale competition and the market has been
opened up to 15 percent, which will be expanded gradually in line with EU Directives
and market considerations. Licenses to new eligible customers (currently about 12) will
be issued to those who meet the criteria established by the ANRE. Third party re-sellers
will also be issued with licenses when the wholesale market has been established and
suitably expanded. Transelectrica will provide non-discriminatory access to the
transmission network to the licensed participants in the sector, and will also facilitate
exports/imports through an inter-connected network. The Govemment will adopt a
transparent transmission pricing policy to maximize competition and trade.
63. As for electricity pricing, the Govemment will adjust end - user electricity prices such
that they will be increased by 3.6 percent at the beginning of every month in the October
2001 - March 2002 period; a further adjustment will be implemented, consistent with
increasing Termoelectrica's producer price to US$ 40/Mwh, as of April 1, 2002. An
appropriate pricing policy for the distribution sector will be adopted during 2002 in the
context of the offer for sale and privatization of the first two distribution companies.
Termoelectrica's prices for heat supply will be adjusted to reach a target of US$ 20/Gcal
by mid-2002, which will ensure viability of its operations and also allow for gradual
transfer to local district heat companies or administrations.
64. The Government fully recognizes that the level of nonpayment in the electricity and
district heat sectors is not sustainable. Therefore, the Government will introduce a
comprehensive Action Plan to address this problem on an urgent basis. The basic
position of the Government is that consumers who do not pay for energy consumption
will have their service discontinued. The Government will make public announcements
in support of the energy production and supply companies' efforts to reduce their levels
of accounts receivable, including enforcement of their supply contracts with delinquent
customers without interference by the Government. Termoelectrica will supply heat to
those local district heat companies that establish escrow, accounts for receiving
customer payments, from which Termoelectrica will receive its due share without
delays. The Government will also put in place. a monthly monitoring mechanism to
ensure that inter-energy company arrears do not accumulate, and provide additional
funds as needed to ensure liquidity and meeting of collection targets by fuel supply
companies. In addition, the performance of senior executives will be periodically
evaluated in accordance with their contracts, and their bonuses will be subsequently
determined.
64



BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
65. Continued actions to improve the legal and regulatory framework for business are
urgently needed to create a better business environment. Reforms have already begun
under the first PSAL, and will need to be sustained under PSAL II. Our objectives in
this endeavor are to increase direct investment from domestic and international sources,
to improve business processes through structural reform, and to remove systemic
impediments that undermine prospects for growth. Now that we have concluded the
assessment of the business environment (with assistance from FIAS), we are now in a
position to move forward with meaningful reforms. While we do not believe we can
tackle all problems, it is our view that we can move forward with key reforms, and do so
in a manner that is strategic and sequential.
66. To improve the prospects for a competitive and formalized private sector to develop in
Romania, the Government plans to make the business environment more conducive to
broad-based growth. One of the ways in which the business environment can
dramatically improve will be by providing more equitable and efficient taxation, which
will ensure a level playing field for investors, remove distortions and selective
discrimination, and send a signal that Romania's business climate is open to investment
irrespective of origin. Planned reforms include preparation and submission to the
Parliament of an amendment to the tax law to eliminate fiscal concessions, and
development of a plan to integrate personal and corporate taxation. Another key item on
the agenda is removing administrative barriers to establishing and operating businesses
in Romania. We have developed a detailed implementation plan for removal of
administrative barriers and established a task force to assure satisfactory implementation
and supervision measures. We plan to complete integration of the Trade Registration
and Tax Registration systems. We will follow this by merging systems of corporate
identification, including those for import, export, safety, labor, taxation and trade. We
will simplify procedures for obtaining work permits and long-term visas for expatriates.
We are also planning on a draft law that will require that new regulations be subject to
public notice and comment, and that an assessment of the cost to the business
community be carried out.
67. The Government has plans to improve the building permit process, which is viewed as a
major obstacle to economic development. This should assist with investment and
formalization of small-scale enterprises.
68. A significant part of the Government's program is to strengthen guidelines and standards
for corporate governance, with a special focus on minority shareholder protection based
on recommendations from an assessment by USA)D and the OECD. Shareholder
protection is considered essential for investors to take risk in companies, for general
improvement in investment flows, and for broader capital markets development.
69. Strengthened audit and accounting standards and procedures are viewed as essential for
the production and disclosure of accurate financial information for intemal and public
purposes. We have already noted their importance to NBR operations and financial
sector development above. We have also taken measures to increase capacity and bring
Romania closer to international standards. Measures recently taken include
establishment of Audit Chamber. The Government has also approved the framework for
development of the accounting system and the conceptual framework for international
standards. Future actions will focus on expansion and modernization of audit capacity,
and the actual implementation of IAS by companies and financial institutions. MOPF
will arrange for translation of IAS along with the first version of best practices and
guidelines to implement JAS in Romania. This will facilitate and accelerate its use by
Romanian companies.
65



All listed companies on the Romania Stock Exchange will have been audited using LAS
within one to two years. Meanwhile, we plan to have the Audit Chamber adopt a
constitution (operational manual), and to implement a program to professionalize
standards consistent with EU norms and international standards.
70. We also plan to move towards more efficient systems for bankruptcy and liquidation,
including measures that will improve and streamline bankruptcy procedures. As noted in
the discussion of the financial sector above, we expect these changes to strengthen
creditors' rights, which would then be expected to contribute to an increase in lending.
71. The Government, in collaboration with the World Bank, has developed an
implementation plan for its program to improve the business environment. The plan
describes the actions the Government intends to take in addition to those outlined in the
PSAL II policy matrix. The plan is attached to this letter and will be closely monitored to
ensure continuing progress in this area.
STRENGTHENING SOCIAL PROTECTION AND
IMPROVING ON POVERTY REDUCTION EFFORTS
72. To mitigate the potentially large human costs and to prevent social unrest, we must
accompany these enterprise, bank, and civil service restructuring programs with solid
social protection measures. Having in view that these social protection measures will be
implemented during a period of severe financial constraints, we have to improve the
efficiency and the effectiveness of existing programs and create an adequate legal
framework for a more active and flexible labor market.
73. Mitigating the costs of restructuring will continue to be highlighted given the large
number of sales offers, privatizations and liquidations expected during PSAL II. Areas of
focus will include (i) increased financial viability of income assistance to released
employees, estimated to be about 120,000 over the lifetime of PSAL II, and the poor
more generally by earmarking resources within the allocated amounts to the local
authorities from the State budget; (ii) more effective delivery of services for released
workers to obtain alternative employment (including selfemployment via micro-credit,
business incubators, and job counseling, matching and placement); and (iii) strengthening
the social safety net by consolidating and rationalizing social assistance benefits and
delivery mechanisms (including local govemment tax revenues). We plan to allocate 0.4
percent of GDP to finance targeted social assistance for the Minimum Income Guarantee
through earmarking resources within the allocated amounts to the local authorities in the
state budget.
74. For the medium and long term, we plan to move forward to achieve comprehensive
reform of the pension system. We recognize that our current structure is not sustainable
in the long term, even with recent amendments to the Public Pension Law, and it remains
vulnerable to demographic uncertainties and pressures. To achieve sustainability, we
plan to establish a second funded pillar that is privately managed, with a viable financing
plan for the transition and a strong pension supervisory authority.
66



75. Finally, sensitive to the difficult circumstances which a substantial portion of our citizens
face, we want to make poverty reduction a centerpiece of public policy, and to make the
delivery of poverty reduction measures more effective. Measures to be taken include
establishing a poverty monitoring unit in the Prime Minister's office, and establishing
effective monitoring systems at the Judet level. It is believed that this combination of
centralized and decentralized approaches will reverse past Government ineffectiveness at
meeting key needs of our country's most vulnerable citizens.
76. The Government, in collaboration with the World Bank, has developed an implementation
plan for its program to improve poverty reduction and social assistance efforts. The plan
describes the actions the Government intends to take in addition to those outlined in the
PSAL II policy matrix. The plan is attached to this letter and will be closely monitored to
ensure continuing progress in this area.
77. In conclusion, we believe we have made great strides to bring on track a consistent reform
program. We request that the World Bank supports this program with a private sector
adjustment loan of EUR. 339.8 million.
Sincerely,
A42X
Prime Minister of Romania
67



ROMANIA
PRLDIUL MINISTRU
April 11, 2002
Mr. James
D.Wolfensohn
President The World
Bank 1818 H Street N
Washington D.C.20433
Dear Mr.-Wolfensohn:
Re: PSAL 11- Addendum to Letter of Development Policy
1. I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the strong cooperation between the
Government and the World Bank. The recent successful completion of the
negotiations of the Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL 11) is one example
of this collaboration.
2.1 would also like to take this opportunity to also. reiterate the Government's
commitment to implementing the policy reform program we presented in the Letter of
Development Policy dated January 25, 2002 addressed to you.
3.We are pleased that the vast majority of actions that the Government set out to
implement prior to submitting PSAL II for approval of the Board of Directors of the
World Bank have been completed. However, we are concerned that the targets for
collection rates in the energy sector were not met by December 31, 2001. While our
efforts were significant they were not sufficient to achieve the results expected. The
Government realizes that more needs to be done.
4.There are good reasons why the targets were not met. Two key factors contributed
to less than expected rates of collection in the energy sector, significant price
increases and an unusually cold winter season. The natural consequence of bigger
consumption of energy at higher prices was lower than expected collections. The
Government remains fully committed to create and enforce the financial and payment
discipline required for meaningful structural reform in the energy sector. Therefore,
in addition to our commitments made under the above mentioned Letter of
Development policy (paras.56 and 64) we will introduce the following additional
measures which will be implemented immediately.
68



5.The Govemment has instructed the energy companies to take all necessary measures
including disconnections, if necessary, to collect on the services supplied to their
customers. The instructions contained in this addendum and the entailed actions to
improve collections in the energy sector will apply to Distrigaz Sud, Distrigaz Nord,
Electrica, and Termoelectrica, and cover the three main categories of consumers:
namely industrial, residential, and local heat distributors, as follows.
Industrial Consumers
Consumers with existing arrears
6.In view of the failure of the utility companies to enforce the rights afforded to them
in the sales contracts entered into with industrial consumers, the Government
instructs these utilities to proceed immediately to enforce the collection of the
amounts in arrears as follows: (a) notice of disconnection will be served to the top
twenty delinquent clients within three days of this instruction; (b) this notice of
disconnection will contain the demand that the authorized representative of the
corresponding client in arrears should initiate negotiations within three working days
of having being served with said notice of disconnection; (c) should the
corresponding client in arrears fail to .initiate negotiations within this interval,
disconnection will be carried-out immediately; (d) disconnection will be carried-out
in all cases in which negotiations to settle the an lunts in arrears are not completed
successfully within ten natural days from the date in which they were initiated.
7.The Govemment further instructs the utility companies that for the settlement of
existing arrears to be successfully completed, the resulting agreements for the
amortization of these debts must comply with each and every of the following (a) the
restructured amount of arrears shall be denominated in Euros; (b) the delinquent
client must pay the utility company a reasonable portion of the amount overdue
immediately and in cash; and (c) a portion of the amount overdue and restructured
under the settlement agreement should be collateralized with real assets.
8.Delays in payment of invoices or bills issued on energy services delivered after the
date of settlement will result in the following events: (a) a notice period of a
maximum of seven days in which supply of energy services will be reduced to
minimum technical levels; (b) immediate disconnection if payment is not received
within the notice period. Under no circumstances repeated offenders will be
reconnected unless the following items have been paid in full (a) amounts
outstanding, (b) penalties, and (c) reconnection charges.
Industrial Consumers with no past arrears
9.In case of default on the payment of the current bills, consumers will be
disconnected in accordance with the framework supply agreements as issued and
published by the corresponding utility regulators. Under no circumstances
reconnection will occur unless the following items have been paid in full: (a)
amounts outstanding, (b) penalties, and (c) reconnection charges.
69



Related provision
IO.In all cases utility companies will target their bill collection, disconnection, debt
renegotiation and other related actions, with highest priority assigned to their largest
defaulters.
Household Consumers
11 .Gas and heat consumers will be offered an option to be billed in equal monthly
payments and payment and disconnection deadlines will be shortened. Law 326/2001
will be amended accordingly.
12.Distribution utilities will install consumption meters under an accelerated
metering program and Electrica will continue to disconnect household consumers
which are not current on their payments.
Local Heat Distributors
1 3.Bulk heat and gas supply will be disconnected beginning April 1, 2002, at the end
of the heating season, to local distributors that are not current on their payments and
do not observe the provisions of their debt rescheduling agreements.
14.Payments by consumers and heat subsidy payments by municipalities and the
Government to escrow accounts will be enforced and the functioning of the escrow
accounts will be monitored to facilitate full bill recovery by the bulk suppliers.
Electrica
15.Electrica will amortize its arrears to generators paripasu with ariy collections
obtained under debt restructuring agreements entered into with delinquent customers.
Termoelectrica
1 6.Termoelectrica will buy gas directly from domestic producers only if it meets the
criteria for eligible consumers, as published by the gas regulatory authority
(ANRGN).
Social Protection Measures
17.The Government may deem appropriate to provide social protection measures
related to the cost of energy. - Any such social protection measure will be financed
by transparent and targeted fiscal instruments. The Government will not resort to
distorting utility tariffs nor will use quasi-fiscal instruments, such as energy company
incomes, to finance these social protection measures. We will target any such social
protection measures exclusively to low-income households.
70



Other Measures
18.Fuel and power producers as well distribution utilities will formulate and implement
comprehensive efficiency improvement and loss reduction measures.
19.Under this plan, only the Govemment will have the authority to exempt specific consumers,
consumer groups, or heat distributors from disconnections, and in such cases the Govemment will
compensate the suppliers and utilities from the budget, fully and in a timely manner, if no other
altemative resources have been found by the respective consumer.
20.The Government commits itself to complete fully the process described in paras. 6 and 7 of this
addendum by May 3, 2002 for each and every one of the twenty industrial consumers with the largest
amount of outstanding arrears to each of the following energy sector companies: (a) Electrica, (b)
Distrigaz Sud, and, (c) Distrigaz Nord.
21.The Government has put in place a system to monitor the effective implementation of this action
plan. We have distributed the corresponding portions of the monitoring system to the relevant energy
companies. We will hold their management responsible for timely implementation and we will dismiss
negligent managers.
Sincerely,
A ~~8ase
Prime Minister of Romania
71



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
I. Privatization of Banca Comerciala Romana (BCR)
Actions by February, 2002
The GOR has made a firm decision on the privatization strategy for BCR, including terms,
conditions, and timeline benchmarks acceptable to the Bank as evidenced by (i) the approval by
Government of the privatization strategy; and (ii) an announcement to the public in the appropriate
official gazette of the decision and timetable. The GOR has initiated a process of procuring services
of a privatization advisor based on Terms of References and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The
GOR has submit a privatization plan for BCR that is acceptable to the Bank.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will submit to the Bank evidence of a firm bid from a strategic investor on the sale of BCR
as evidenced by a "bid bond" and compliance with other bid requirements stipulated by APAPS
within 6 months of Board presentation/First Tranche Release. The GOR will submit regular reports
on the status and progress of BCR's privatization in compliance with agreed timeline benchmarks
stipulated in the approved privatization plan. The reporting requirements of the Bank include
submission of the following documents: (i) detailed privatization plan and valuation report; (ii) list of
bidders expressing interest; (iii) Information Memorandum; (iv) criteria for any pre-selection of
bidders; (v) criteria for selection of winning bidders; and (vi) report prepared by the financial advisor
or any other advisor on the tender when completed. The GOR has offered for sale and has taken all
possible steps to complete the sale of BCR to private sector shareholders.
H. Pre-privatization Restructuring of the Savings Bank (CEC)
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has submited to the Bank for review and acceptance: (i) the final draft of the EU funded
due-diligence report and supporting annexes; (ii) the Information Memorandum; (iii) the Valuation
Report; and (iv) the Feasibility Study, as the basis for determining the necessary legal, operational,
and organizational requirements for the CEC's restructuring plan in preparation for the bank's
privatization.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will prepare a restructuring plan for CEC that is acceptable to the Bank within 30 days of
Board presentation/First Tranche Release. The GOR will modify CEC legislation, including the final
resolution of the FNI issue(s) as it affects the: (i) financial position of the CEC Bank, and (ii) the
compensation of the investors in the fund on a basis consistent with the approved restructuring plan
of the CEC Bank within 30 days of Board presentation/ First Tranche Release. The GOR will engage
bank restructuring and privatization advisor(s) and commence with the restructuring of the CEC
Bank in preparation for its privatization within 60 days of First Tranche Release. The GOR will
continue with the ongoing restructuring of CEC Bank as evidenced by compliance with agreed
timeline benchmarks stipulated in the restructuring plan and by progress reports submitted to the
Bank on a quarterly basis.
72



III. Bank Infrastructure Support Systems: Modernize Payment and Clearing Systems
Actions by February 2002
The NBR has developed Termns of Reference acceptable to the Bank for the Electronic Payment
System (EPS) including the Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGSS), the Automated Clearing
House (ACH), and the Government Securities Registration and Settlement System (GSRSS).
Actions by mid-2003
The NBR will select a provider for the Electronic Payment System (EPS) within 6 months of Board
Presentation/First Tranche Release. The NBR will develop a program to: (i) verify the on-going
progress of the EPS according to the timeline benchmarks and schedule negotiated with the provider
and accepted by the Bank; (ii) ascertain the individual banks' readiness to participate in the LVPP,
including computer back-up and a disaster recovery plan; (iii) institute a training program on the
management and operations of the EPS; and (iv) verify and monitor progress of the EPS in
compliance with the timeline and benchmarks stipulated in such programs.
IV. Insurance Sector Reform: Strengthen Supervision of the Insurance Sector
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has appointed members of the Insurance Supervision Commission (ISC). The GOR has
submitted TORs acceptable to the Bank for the appointment of an Advisor to assist in strengthening
the institutional capacity of the ISC to supervise and provide regulatory oversight of the insurance
sector, in conjunction with the duties, responsibilities and span of authority of the ICS.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will appoint an Advisor acceptable to the Bank within 3 months of Board
Presentation/First Tranche Release. The GOR will provide evidence of ongoing institutional
strengthening of the ISC in the form of quarterly progress reports acceptable to the Bank regarding,
but not limited to, organization, operations, staffing, training and IT requirements, and appropriate
changes in regulations for insurance and re-insurance sector activities.
V. Capital and Equity Market Development: Develop the Legal Framework, Regulations, and
Infrastructure for the Capital and Equity Markets
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has submitted a strategic plan acceptable to the Bank to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the National Securities Commission (CNVM) in its capacity to supervise and to provide
regulatory oversight of the capital and equity markets. The GOR has engaged a capital market
development advisor acceptable to the Bank to: (i) assist in revising the capital market legal
framework, the Law 52/1994 regarding the securities and stock exchanges, the Ordinance 24/ 1994
regarding the establishment and operation of the open-end investment funds and of investment
companies as financial intermediation institutions, and (ii) draft a CNVM statute and assist CNVM
in preparing a draft strategic plan.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will establish a new legal and regulatory framework for the capital and equity markets by
improving the appropriate laws and regulations governing the capital and equity markets, consistent
with EU acquis and directives.
73



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR PRIVATIZATION AND LIQUIDATION OF SOEs
I. Case-by-Case Privatizations Carried Forward From First PSAL: Privatization of Eight Large
SOEs and the Workout of Five Large SOEs Started in PSAL I
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has provided evidence that the sale of SIDEX is complete.
The GOR has initiated a controlled tender or negotiations for ALRO, as agreed with the Bank;
The GOR has approved the strategy for selling ALPROM through an open tender, as agreed with
the Bank.
The GOR has concluded the sale for Hidromecanica.
The GOR has placed advertisements for sale of Electroputere and Romvag in the local and
international press.
The GOR has initiated the privatization through an open tender for Antibiotice.
The GOR has received the due diligence reports of the financial advisor for Tractorul.
The GOR has re-initiated the process of sale for IUG.
The GOR has sold 30 percent of the assets of Clujana.
The GOR has started the restructuring plan agreed with the Bank for Roman, Siderugica and
Nitramonia.
For 30 of the 50 SOEs being privatized in pools, the GOR publicly announced the sale of 30 firms
and receive offers and start negotiations for 12 firms.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will have offered for sale or will have taken irreversible measures, agreed upon with the
Bank, for the sale and disposition of assets of the following companies: ALRO, ALPROM,
Electroputere, Romvag, Antibiotice and the three main operational components of Tractorul.
For IUJG and Clujana, the GOR will sell the company or its assets, for Roman, Siderugica and
Nitramonia, the GOR will sell all operations and assets identified in their restructuring plans. .
The GOR will sell 30 of the 50 SOEs being privatized in pools.
IA. Privatization to be undertaken by the APAPS
Actions by February 2002
GOR has provided satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the APAPS has privatized at least 4 large
state-owned enterprises, 50 small and medium state-owned enterprises and 50 state-owned
enterprises in which it holds residual shares.
Actions by mid-2003
GOR will provide satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the APAPS has privatized at least 10 large
SOEs and 300 small and medium SOEs and privatized another 100 SOEs in which it holds residual
shares.
IB. Restructuring of TAROM
74



Actions by February 2002
The GOR has submitted a restructuring plan that is satisfactory to the Bank. The plan will result in
the reduction of total losses, including interest expense.
Actions by mid- 2003
The GOR will continue the restructuring of the firm so that total losses, including interest expense,
do not exceed $33 million in 2002, and $20 million in 2003. The GOR will prepare a medium-term
privatization strategy acceptable to the World Bank.
H. Pool Privatization and Workouts-New Pools: Introduce 20 New Large Companies Into the
Program for Privatization and Workout
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has selected 10 companies, acceptable to the Bank, for privatization in three pools, and has
issued the RFP for selection of three investment banks or sales agents for their privatization. The
GOR has selected 10 companies, acceptable to the Bank, for workout in four pools, and has issued
RFP for selection of four workout companies to undertake the workout of each pool.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will have offered 8 of the 10 companies in the privatization pools for sale and will have not
unreasonably refused to sell them and has worked out 8 of the 10 companies in the workout pools
according to the restructuring plans presented by the responsible consultants.
III. Reform of the Communications Sector: Introduce Competition and Private Sector
Participation
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will adopt a Regulatory Development Program (RDP) for the telecommnunications sector
acceptable to the Bank. The GOR will implement the key elements of the RDP and establish a
functioning regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector in accordance with the RDP in a
manner acceptable to the Bank, including adoption of an adequate structure and legal personality for
General Inspectorate of Communications (GIC).
IV. Loss Reduction and Privatization Program for National Companies and Regies Autonomes:
Achieve Loss Reduction in the Mining Sector
Actions by March 2002
The GOR has developed a five-year plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce subsidies and losses in
the mining sector.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will progress with implementation of the five-year plan to reduce subsidies and losses.
V. Liberalization and Reform of the Utilities Sector: Establish the Legal, Regulatory and
Institutional Framework for Competition and Private Participation in the Utilities Sector
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will complete the review of all legislation governing network industries (electricity, oil,
gas), as well as public domain, concession and competition aspects relating to them, with the
75



objective of providing consistency with medium- and long-term policy objectives, ensuring
regulatory coherence toward each network industry and increased independence of regulators.
Further, the GOR will have submitted to the Parliament for approval the draft corrective legislation
acceptable to the Bank. The GOR will regulate ownership rights of the gas distribution companies so
that local administrations do not have ownership rights over gas distribution pipelines and to move
pipelines into the private domain of the state to enable distribution companies to legally own these
assets. The GOR will also provide that all electricity distribution network components and assets are
transferred from the public domain to the private domain of the state so as to avoid interference by
local administrations.
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR ENERGY SECTOR REFORM
I. Reform of the Gas Sector: Privatization of Gas Distribution Companies to a Strategic Buyer
Actions by February 2002
The Borrower has unbundled the gas sector into independent exploration production, transmission,
storage and distribution companies.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will have offered for sale through an open international competitive tender for strategic
buyers and by publicly announcing the sale and sales process of the two existing gas distribution
companies (Distrigaz Nord and Sud).
II. Reform of the Oil Sector: Privatization of Petrom
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has initiated a process of procuring services of a reputable international investment bank
based on the Terms of References and procurement procedure satisfactory to the World Bank. New
regulations have been issued for common carrier status for oil transmission.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR has offered and is making progress on a sale of at least a 51 percent stake in Petrom in
compliance with the approved privatization plan previously agreed upon between the World Bank
and the GOR through an open international competitive tender for strategic buyers.
m. Improving Efficiency in the Oil and Gas Sector: To Increase Gas Prices and Cash Collections,
and Reduce Accounts Receivable and Accounts Payable in the Gas Sector
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has ensured that the level of overall cumulative year-to-date collections as a percent of
billings of Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud is increased to a level of 95 percent. The Government
has initiated the process of procuring consulting services for the review of the tax regime for oil and
gas production with a view to capture some of the windfall profits of domestic producers.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will have ensured that the level of overall cumulative year-to-date collections as a percent
of billings of Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud is increased to a level not lower than 97.5 percent.
76



The GOR will ensure that the accounts payable to the gas producers and gas transmission companies,
resulting from gas delivery beginning January 1, 2002 will be paid within 60 days.
IV. Reform of the Power Sector: Improve Collections and Reduce Arrears
AcRons by February 2002
The GOR has continued its efforts, including implementing the measures adopted under the
"Government Action Plan to Improve Collections in the Energy Sector," to ensure that (i) Electrica
has achieved a monthly cumulative collection rate of not less than 96 percent from January 2001, (ii)
Termoelectrica has achieved a monthly collection rate of 100 percent for electricity for each month
from October 2001, and (iii) Termoelectrica has achieved a cumulative monthly collection rate of not
less than 95 percent for district heat supply for the year 2001. The GOR has established a system for
monthly review of Termoelectrica's losses and will ensure that Termoelectrica's obligations to the
oil and gas companies will be paid through mechanisms satisfactory to the World Bank.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR has ensured that (i) Electrica will achieve a monthly cumulative collection rate of not less
than 97.5 percent from January 2002, (ii) Termoelectrica will continue to achieve a monthly
collection rate of 100 percent for electricity from January 2002, and (iii) Termoelectrica will achieve
a cumulative monthly collection rate of not less than 97.5 percent for district heat supply from
January 2002.
V. Reform of the Power Sector: Restructuring and Privatization of Power Sector
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has organized Electrica into eight entities (as recommended by the privatization advisors)
and Termoelectrica into two business units (for electricity and district heat production and supply
operations), and has set up each plant as a cost/profit center in a manner acceptable to the Bank. The
GOR has selected two electricity distribution companies to be offered for privatization as
recommended by the privatization advisor. The GOR has initiated privatization procedures, prepared
with the help of the privatization advisor, for the two electricity distribution companies
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR has reviewed with the Bank the privatization strategy, prepared for the two electricity
distribution companies with the privatization advisor, and has offered for sale the controlling shares
of the companies. The GOR has adopted a privatization strategy for the electricity generation sector
acceptable to the Bank.
77



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR AN IMPROVED BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
I. Administrative Barriers: Develop Implementation Plan to Remove Administrative Barriers
Actions by February, 2002
The GOR has reestablished the Business Environment Task Force in a manner acceptable to the
Bank to include (i) active representatives of all ministries involved, and (ii) representatives from at
least two major business associations. The GOR will appoint a Business Environment Advisor
acceptable to the Bank to head the Task Force and to ensure the fulfillment of the measures identified
in the implementation plan. The GOR developed and agreed on a detailed time-bound
implementation plan for the removal of administrative barriers in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
The GOR will provide evidence of the nationwide integration of the trade and fiscal registration
system.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will implement in a timely way its plan to improve the business environment in Romania
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
H. Tax Reform: Provide More Equitable and Efficient Taxation
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has submitted to the Parliament draft legislation acceptable to the Bank that will unify
existing regulations under several laws and eliminate distortionary tax incentives (inter alia by
replacing profit tax reductions and exemptions in Law 133/1999 and the tax allowance in Law
189/2001 with a uniform 20 percent investment tax allowance). The GOR has committed not to
introduce tax holidays or any new discretionary tax incentives. The new profit tax law will also
gradually increase the extraordinarily low profit tax rate for exporting activities towards the standard
profit tax rate, with a first adjustment from 5 percent to 6 percent, being made in 2002.
The number of funds for specific purposes financed by taxes on corporations has been reduced. A
commitment has been made that no other funds financed by such taxes will be created except those
required by EU accession.
Actions by mid-2003
The Borrower will implement a legislative package acceptable to the Bank that will unify existing
regulations under several laws and eliminate distortionary incentives for each type of tax (VAT,
excises, corporate profit and personal income). The purpose of package is to simplify and unify the
existing provisions regarding fiscal incentives to eliminate discrimination and hannonize the fiscal
legislation within EU legislation.
m. Accounting and Audit: Implement Sound, Internationally-recognized Accounting Standards
and Financial Audit Procedures
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has caused the publication in the Romanian language of the revised version of 2001 LAS,
development and publication of practical guidelines for IAS implementation in Romania, and
development and publication of all norms and procedures provided in Article 7 of the EGO no.
75/1999 regarding financial auditing.
78



Actions by mid-2003
The companies included in the list attached to the Order of the Minister of Public Finance no. 94/2001
for the approval of the Accounting Regulation harmonized with the IVP" Directive 78/660/CEE (197
companies) will draft financial statement for the FY ended on December 31, 2001. Companies that
comply with criteria regarding tumover, total balance sheet and average number of employees, will
commence with implementation of the aforementioned regulations and to be audited according to
intemational standards in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
IV. Bankruptcy and Corporate Governance: Introduce a More Effective and Efficient System
Related to Bankrifptcy, Liquidation, and Corporate Governance to Assist the Restructuring of the
Private Sector
Actions by February 2002
The GOR launched a tender to select an advisor, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, to review the
current bankruptcy legislation and procedures and to identify specific measures for corrective actions
in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
A study on corporate govemance in Romania consistent with best practices and intemational
standards based on guidance from the OECD and EU has been carried out.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR has (i) developed and completed an action plan acceptable to the Bank for improvement of
bankruptcy procedures; and (ii) has taken actions acceptable to the Bank to improve and strearnline
Bankruptcy procedures. The GOR has developed a program to strengthen the judicial system and the
legislative framework for an efficient application of legislation regulating bankruptcy, including
technical assistance required for the training of judges and auxiliary staff regarding the bankruptcy of
commercial companies, bank bankruptcy, banking operations, intemational operations, and related
fields, as well as technical assistance for infrastructure improvement of the commercial courts for
better management of the commercial files. The GOR will develop an action plan acceptable to the
Bank for improving corporate govemance in Romania.
79



IMPLEMENTATION PLAN FOR POVERTY REDUCTION
I. Poverty Reduction: Improve the Impact of Public Policy on Poverty Reduction
Actions by February 2002
The GOR submited to Parliament a Law on National Social Assistance System that addresses the
consolidation of institutional responsibilities for the delivery of social assistance benefits and
services. The GOR has obtained Parliamentary approval of legislation establishing the financing
responsibility for means-tested income support (Minimum Guaranteed Income) by earmarking
resources within the allocated amounts to the local authorities in a state budget.
Actions by mid-2003
The budget has allocated sufficient resources satisfactory to the World Bank to finance the targeted
MGI program and maintains sufficient level thereafter. The GOR has obtained Parliamentary
approval of the Law on the National Social Assistance System and prepared secondary legislation
satisfactory to the Bank.
The Government will conduct a study to analyze the effectiveness and impact of the MGI program in
accordance with the TORs discussed with the WB, the main objective of this study will be to assess
the appropriateness of the MGI program.
II. Pension Reform: Implement Comprehensive Reform of the Pension System
Actions by February 2002
The GOR presented to the Bank a Multi-pillar Pension Strategy, acceptable to the Bank, that will: (i)
consolidate the public pillar reform by defining a clear and sustainable replacement rate and a
transparent and financially viable rule for indexing pensions; (ii) establish key principles on the
funded pillar structure; (iii) assess the fiscal implications and present various scenarios for financing
the initial transition costs; and (iv) legally create a Pension Policy Unit within the Ministry of Labor
and Social Solidarity. The GOR presented the Bank draft amendments for consolidating the public
pillar reform.
Actions by mid-2003
Parliament will approve amendments that will enhance compliance and will consolidate the public
pillar reform by defining a sustainable replacement rate and a transparent and financially viable
indexation rule. The GOR has submitted to the Parliament a Law on the Mandatory Private Pension
Pillar (Second Pillar) that is satisfactory to the Bank.
III. Labor Market Restructuring and Assistance to the Unemployed: Provision of Income Support
to Workers Laid-off and Assistance in Obtaining Alternative Employment
Actions by February 2002
The GOR has provided pre-layoff services to collectively discharged employees, including those
from the public administration and state budget sectors. The GOR has committed to maintain the
level of these services.
Actions by mid-2003
The GOR will obtain Parliamentary approval of legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, that fosters
financial viability and rationalizes unemployment benefits and their financing.
80



Annex 4. POLICY REFORMS PROGRAM MATRIX
1. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMIS
; 6 . , .-~                      .                              .-.;-[-           - . ,,. -*;.  -;,t.. ;- *
Program Area      Obiective                          PSAL II Action Program                       Condition of    Reference
Privatization  Privatization of  Banca Comerciala Romana (BCR)
of BCR         Romanian state-   The GOR has made a firm decision on the privatization strategy for BCR, Board  MOP, LDP,
owned banks      including terms, conditions, and timeline benchmarks acceptable to the  presentation/  Implementation
World Bank as evidenced by (i) the approval by Government of the  First Tranche  Plan
privatization strategy; and (ii) an announcement to the public in the  Release
appropriate official gazette of the decision and timetable. The GOR has
initiated a process of procuring the services of a privatization advisor
based on Terms of References and terms and conditions acceptable to the
World Bank. The GOR will submit a privatization plan for BCR that is
acceptable to the World Bank.
The GOR will offer for sale and has taken all reasonable steps to  Second     MOP, LA,
complete the sale of BCR to private sector shareholders in compliance  Tranche  LDP,
with management, capital, ownership, and all legal and regulatory  Release    Implementation
requirements of the NBR.                                                       Plan
81



I:--J  -      'I. FINANCIL SECTOR REFORMS
Program Area      Objective                        PSAL H Action Program                        Condition of   Reference
Pre-           Privatization of  CEC Bank
Privatization  Romanian state-  The GOR has submitted to the World Bank for review and acceptance: (i) Board  MOP, LDP,
Restructuring  owned banks     the final draft of the EU funded due-diligence report and supporting presentation/  Implementation
of CEC                          annexes; (ii) the Information Memorandum; (iii) the Valuation Report; First Tranche  Plan
and (iv) the Feasibility Study, as the basis for determining the necessary  Release
legal, operational, and organizational requirements for the CEC's
restructuring plan in preparation for the bank's privatization.
Ongoing CEC restructuring as evidenced by compliance with agreed  Second     MOP, LA,
timeline benchmarks stipulated in a restructuring plan approved by the Tranche  LDP,
World Bank, and by progress reports submitted on a quarterly basis.  Release  Implementation
Plan
82



11. PRIVATIZATION AND DIVESTITURE OF LARGE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
Program Area        Objective                          PSAL Action Program                         Condition      Reference
of
Privatization/  The exit of the state  Large-Scale SOE Privatization                              Second       MOP, LA, LDP,
Workouts/      from most enterprise  The GOR will offer for sale or has taken irreversible measures, agreed  Tranche  Implementation
Restructuring  activities          upon with the World Bank, for the disposition and sale of assets of the Release  Plan
/ Liquidations                     following companies: ALRO and ALPROM.
Pool           The exit of the state  Pool Privatization and Workouts-New Pools
Privatization  from most enterprise  The GOR has selected 10 companies, acceptable to the World Bank, Board    MOP, LDP,
and Workouts   activities          for privatization in three pools, and has issued the RFP for selection of presentation  Implementation
three investment banks or sales agents for their privatization. The GOR  /First  Plan
has selected 10 companies, acceptable to the World Bank, for work-out Tranche
in four pools, and has issued the RFP for selection of four workout Release
companies to undertake the workout of each pool.
The GOR will offer eight of the 10 companies in the privatization pools Second  MOP, LA, LDP,
for sale and has not unreasonably refused to sell them. The GOR has Tranche  Implementation
worked-out eight of the 10 companies in the workout pools in   Release      Plan
accordance with the restructuring plans presented by the responsible
consultants.
83



HI. ENERGY SECTOR REFORM
Program Area      Objective                         PSAL Action Program                         Condition     Reference
of
Privatization of  Privatization of  Gas Sector
Gas Sector       gas companies  The GOR will offer for sale through an open international competitive  Second  MOP, LA, LDP,
with strategic  tender for strategic buyers and by publicly announcing the sale and sales Tranche  Implementation
investment     process of the two existing gas distribution companies (Distrigaz Nord and  Release  Plan
Sud).
Privatization of  Privatization of Oil Sector and Privatization of Petrom
Oil Sector       oil companies  The GOR has initiated a process of procuring services of a reputable  Board  MOP, LDP,
with strategic  international investment bank based on the Terms of References and  presentation  Implementation
investment     procurement procedures satisfactory to the World Bank to undertake the /First  Plan
sale of a controlling interest in Petrom to a strategic buyer.  Tranche
Release
The GOR will offer and is making progress on the sale of at least a 51  Second  MOP, LA, LDP,
percent stake in Petrom in compliance with an approved privatization plan  Tranche  Implementation
previously agreed upon between the World Bank and the GOR. The sale  Release  Plan
will be made through an open international competitive tender for
strategic buyers.
84



ElL. ENERGY SECTOR REFORM Ii
Program Area      Objective                        PSAL Action Program                       Condition of   Reference
Privatization of  Privatization of Restructuring and Privatization of Power Sector
Electricity and  electricity and  The GOR has organized Electrica into eight entities (as recommended by Board  MOP, LDP,
Power Sector    other power   the privatization advisors) and Termoelectrica into two business units (for presentation/  Implementation
companies with electricity and district heat production and supply operations), and has set First Tranche  Plan
strategic      up each plant as a cost/profit center in a manner acceptable to the World Release
investment    Bank. The GOR has selected two electricity distribution companies to be
offered for privatization as recommended by the privatization advisor. The
GOR has initiated privatization procedures, prepared with the help of the
privatization advisor, for the two electricity distribution companies.
The GOR will review with the World Bank the privatization strategy, Second  MOP, LA,
prepared for the two electricity distribution companies with the Tranche    LDP,
privatization advisor, and has offered for sale the controlling shares of the Release  Implementation
companies. The GOR has adopted a privatization strategy for the            Plan
electricity generation sector acceptable to the World Bank.
85



-i-H  ENERGY SECTOR REFORM'
Program Area        Objective                         PSAL Action Program                      Condition of    Reference
Improving       To increase prices  Oil and Gas Sectors
Collections and  and tariffs and cash  The GOR took measures aimed at increasing the overall cumulative  Board  MOP, LDP,
Reducing        collections, and    collection rate for the year 2001 of Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud  presentation/  Implementation
Arrears in the  reduce accounts     to 95 percent. The actual collection rate was 85.6 percent. The GOR  First Tranche  Plan
Oil and Gas     receivable, accounts  adopted an "Action Plan to Improve the Collections in the Energy  Release
Sectors         payable, and arrears  Sector." The measures being implemented under the plan have been
deemed sufficient remedy for the year 2001 shortfall in the collection
rates of these two companies.
The GOR will ensure that the level of overall cumulative year-to-date  Second  MOP, LA,
collections as a percent of billings of Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Tranche  LDP,
Sud is increased to a level not lower than 97.5 percent. The GOR has Release  Implementation
ensured that the accounts payable to the gas producers and gas           Plan
transmission companies, resulting from gas delivery beginning
January 1, 2002 will be paid within 60 days.
86



III. ENERGY SECTOR REFORM
Program Area        Objective                         PSAL Action Program                      Condition of    Reference
Improving       To increase prices  Power Sector
Collections and  and tariffs and cash  The GOR took measures aimed at ensuring that (i) Electrica would  Board  MOP, LDP,
Reducing        collections, and   achieve a monthly cumulative collection rate of not less than 96  presentation/  Implementation
Arrears in the  reduce accounts    percent beginning January 2001, (ii) Termoelectrica would achieve a  First Tranche  Plan
Power Sector    receivable, accounts  monthly collection rate of 100 percent for electricity for each month  Release
payable, and arrears  from October 2001, and (iii) Termoelectrica would achieved a
cumulative monthly collection rate of not less than 95 percent for
district heat supply for the year 2001. The actual collection rates
achieved were, respectively, 92.3 percent, 92 percent, and 87 percent.
The Govemment has adopted an "Action Plan to Improve the
Collections in the Energy Sector" that applies to these companies. The
measures being implemented under the plan have been deemed
sufficient remedy for the shortfall in the collection rates of Electrica
and Termoelectrica. The GOR has established a system for monthly
review of Termoelectrica's losses which entails that Termoelectrica's
obligations to the oil and gas companies are paid through mechanisms
satisfactory to the World Bank.
The GOR will ensure that (i) Electrica will achieve a monthly  Second     MOP, LA,
cumulative collection rate of not less than 97.5 percent from January  Tranche  LDP,
2002, (ii) Termoelectrica will continue to achieve a monthly  Release    Implementation
collection rate of 100 percent for electricity from January 2002, and     Plan
(iii) Termoelectrica will achieve a cumulative monthly collection rate
of not less than 97.5 percent for district heat supply from January
2002.
87



. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  V BU.S ENVR.N .'             ,,
Program        Objective                          PSAL II Action Program                       Condition of   Reference
Area
Admini-      Develop an       Remove Administrative Barriers
strative     implementation   The GOR has reestablished the Business Environment Task Force in a Board       MOP, LDP,
Barriers     plan to remove   manner acceptable to the World Bank to include (i) active representatives of presentation/  Implementation
administrative   all ministries involved, and (ii) representatives from at least two major First Tranche  Plan
barriers         business associations. The GOR has appointed a Business Environment Release
Advisor acceptable to the World Bank to head the Task Force and to ensure
the fulfillment of the measures identified in the implementation plan. The
GOR has developed and agreed upon a detailed time-bound implementation
plan for the removal of administrative barriers in a manner satisfactory to the
World Bank.
Tax and      Provide more     Implement Tax and Fiscal Reform
Fiscal       equitable and    The GOR has submitted to the Parliament draft legislation acceptable to the Board  MOP, LDP,
Reform       efficient taxation  World Bank that will unify existing regulations under several laws and  presentation/  Implementation
eliminate distortionary tax incentives (inter alia by replacing profit tax  First Tranche  Plan
reductions and exemptions in Law 133/1999 and the tax allowance in Law  Release
189/2001 with a uniform 20 percent investment tax allowance). The GOR
will not introduce tax holidays or any new discretionary tax incentives. The
new profit tax law will also gradually increase the extraordinarily low profit
tax rate for exporting activities towards the standard profit tax rate, with a
first adjustment from 5 percent to 6 percent being made in 2002.
88



; ,.               .L- ---  L  IV. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
Program Area         Objective                        PSAL H Action Program                    Condition of   Reference
Bankruptcy    Introduce a more       Modernize Bankruptcv Enforcement Procedures
effective and efficient  The GOR has launched tender to select an advisor, in a mannei Board  MOP, LDP,
system related to     acceptable to the World Bank, to review the current bankruptcy presentation/  Implementation
bankruptcy and        legislation and procedures and to identify specific measures fo First Tranche  Plan
liquidation in order to  corrective actions in a manner acceptable to the World Bank.  Release
assist the restructuring
of the private sector
89



*i         -         V. STRENGTHENING TlE SOCIAL PROTECTION SYSTEM
Program         Objective                         PSAL II Action Program                      Condition of   Reference
Area
Poverty       Improve the impact  Poverty Reduction
Reduction     of public policy on  The GOR has submitted to Parliament a Law on National Social Board        MOP, LDP,
poverty reduction  Assistance System that addresses the consolidation of institutional presentation/  Implementation
responsibilities for the delivery of social assistance benefits and services. First Tranche  Plan
The GOR has obtained Parliamentary approval of legislation establishing  Release
the financing responsibility for means-tested income support (Minimum
Income Guarantee) by earmarking resources within the allocated amounts
to the local authorities from the state budget.
The budget will allocate sufficient resources satisfactory to the World  Second  MOP, LA,
Bank to finance the targeted MIG program and maintains a sufficient Tranche  LDP,
level thereafter. The GOR has obtained Parliamentary approval of the Release  Inplementation
Law on the National Social Assistance System and has prepared               Plan
secondary legislation satisfactory to the World Bank.
90



V. STRENGTHENING THE SOCLAL PROTECTION SYSTEM                  ;    .
Program              Objective                         PSAL II Action Program                 Condition of    Reference
Area
Social       Provide adequate yet sustainable  Labor Market Restructuring  and Assistance to the
Assistance  income support to workers laid-  Unemployed                                         Board        MOP, LDP,
off without undermining work  The GOR has provided pre-layoff services to collectively  presentation/  Implementation
incentives, and assistance in  discharged employees, including those from  the public  First Tranche  Plan
obtaining alternative        administration and state budget sectors. The level of these  Release
employment                   services shall be maintained thereafter.
The GOR will obtain Parliamentary approval of legislation, Second  MOP, LA,
satisfactory to the World Bank, that fosters financial viability  Tranche  LDP,
and rationalizes unemployment benefits and their financing.  Release  Inplementation
Plan
91



<i,,  ,S,  ,    , - , .      .   tV. STRENGTENING THE SOCIL PROTECTION SYSTEM
Program Area              Objective                       PSAL II Action Program              Condition of   Reference
Comprehensive   Implement a comprehensive reform  Pension Reform
Pension         of the pension system that will  The GOR has presented to the World Bank a Multi-  Board    MOP, LDP,
Reform          enhance its financial sustainability,  pillar Pension Strategy, acceptable to the World Bank,  presentation/  Implementation
diminish inequities, improve   that will: (i) consolidate the public pillar reform by  First Tranche  Plan
contribution incentives, diversify  defining a clear and sustainable replacement rate and a  Release
risks between the PAYG and     transparent and financially viable rule for indexing
privately-managed funded schemes, pensions; (ii) establish key principles on the funded
and promote sound regulation of  pillar structure; (iii) assess the fiscal implications and
private pension schemes        present various scenarios for financing the initial
transition costs; and (iv) legally create a Pension
Policy Unit within the Ministry of Labor and Social
Solidarity. The GOR will present to the World Bank
draft amendments for consolidating the public pillar
reform.
Parliament will approve amendments that will enhance  Second  MOP, LA,
compliance and will consolidate the public pillar  Tranche   LDP,
reform by defining a sustainable replacement rate and a Release  Implementation
transparent and financially viable indexation rule. The      Plan
GOR will submit to the Parliament a Law on the
Mandatory Private Pension Pillar (Second Pillar) that
is satisfactory to the World Bank.
92



Annex S. COUNTRYATA GLANCE
93



Romania at a glance                                                           9/10/01
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Central  middle-
Romanla      Asia   Income      Development diamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    22.4      475     2,046                Life expectancy
GNIpercapita(Atlasmethod, US$)                    1,670    2,010     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                   37.4      956     2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-0O
Population (°X)                                    -0.2       0.1      1.0
Labor force (%/6)                                   1.2       0.6      1.3     GNI                           Gross
per                          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  41
Urban population (% of total popu/alion)            56        67       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    70        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             19       21       32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           ..        ..      11          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populaton)  58       90        80
Illiteracy (% of populat0on age 15+)                 2         3        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populaton)  96      100       114             Romania
Male                                              96       101       116             Lower-middle-incomae group
Female                                            95        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990     1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                          ..     38.3      35.2     36.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP             39.8     30.2      17.2     19.4                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP         35.3     16.7      29.0     34.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                35.0     20.8      12.8     13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  ..     21.5      13.5     15.1
Current account balance/GDP                        47        -37      -3.7     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                               0.0       1.4      1.4       stings                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                              ..      3.0      26.6     29.3
Total debtservice/exports                 12.6      0.4      31.3     15.7
Present value of debtWGDP                    ..      ..      22.7     27.4
Present value of debt/exports               ..       ..      79.5     80.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-0     1999     2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                0.5    -0.7     -2.3       1.6      4.0              Romania
GDP per capita                     0.1    -0.4     -2.1       1.8      4.3              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..     8.5     10.8      23.9       ,.
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990     1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 *-     20.3      15.0     12.8
Industry                                    ..     50.0      35.9     36.3    so
Manufacturing                              ..      ..      26.7     27.0 /
Services                                           29.8      49.1     50.9     o
Private consumpton                        59.9     65.9      74.4     73.9    -10
General govemment consumption              5.0     13.3      12.7     12.5              _    GDI       c  GDP
Imports of goods and services             40.1     26.2     33.4      39.9
1980-90  1990-00     1999     2000      Growth of exports and imports 1%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 ..     -0.6       3.4    -15.9    40
Industry                                    ..     -0.8     -1.6       6.2    30                                D
Manufacturing                              ..    -2.8      -7.1      6.2    20
Services                                    ..     -0.5     -4.6       6.7    10
Private consumption                         ..      1.2     -3.6       1.4 o
General govemment consumption                ..     1.1     -9.4       4.2   -15     9    9s   97    95   99   00
Gross domestc investment                    ..     -5.2      -5.3     10.9            -    Exports  -*Imports
Imports of goods and services               ..      6.4     -1.1      29.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990     1999     2000     inflation(%)
Dormestic prices:
(%/ change)20r
Consumer prices                              ..     5.1      45.8     45.7    150
Implicit GDP deflator                       0.6    13.7      48.7     45.3    100
Govemment finance                                                              50
(% of GDP, includes cunrent grants)                                             0
Current revenue                              ..    39.5      32.1     31.4            95    96   97    98   99    W0
Current budget balance                       ..     8.5       0.0     -0.6            _    GDPdeflator  - :  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..     1.0      -3.7     -4.0
TRADE
1980   1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions) 
Total exports (fob)                          ..   5,770     8,487   10,367    15,09.
Textiles                                    ..    944      1,310    1,658
Metals                                     ..    1,136      502      822
Manufactures                               ..    3,428    5,697    6.984                 *   *        _ c
Total imports (cif                           ..    9202    10,557   13,055   !       .
Food                                       ..    1,211      795      932
Fuel and energy                            ..    3,896    1,251     1,830
Capital goods                              ..    1,958    2,903    3,767
94  95   96   97  98   99   Ow
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      97       98       105
Import price index (1995=100)               .,      105      101      107                 siEport5s     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..      93       97       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services            12,087   4,295     9,870   12,133     0
Imports of goods and services            13,730   6.065    11,381   14,071         l
Resource balance                         -1,643  -1,770    -1,511   -1,938
Net income                                -777     -140      411     -285    ;i
Net current transfers                        0      107      626      860
Current account balance                  -2,420  -1,803    -1,296   -1,363
Financing items (net)                    2,174      157     1,469    2,291
Changes in net reserves                    247    1,646      -173     -928    -lo 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..      877     2,493    3,397
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             ..    22.4  15,332.8  21,708.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 Compositlon of 2000 debt (USS mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      9,762   1,140     9,367   10,740
IBRD                                     806       0      1,662    1,898
IDA                                        0        0        0        0                             A: 1,898
Total debt service                        1,529     18      3,138    1,953
IBRD                                      81       0       170      195                                   C: 453
IDA                                        0       0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            0       3         ..       ..
Official creditors                       613       19       14      467
Private creditors                       1,360      4       -327    1,068                      X*        E 772
Foreign direct investment                 ..       ..     1,025    1,009         F: 5.442  "            6:772
Portfolio equity                           0       0       -715     110
World Bank program
Commitments                              240       0       380       68      A - lBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            239       0       315      384      B - IDA  D - Other mnultilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      22       0        B3       91      C - IMF                   G - Shot-term
Net flows                                217       0       233      293
Interest payments                         59       0        88      104
Net transfers                            158       0       145      189
The World Bank Group: httpl/www.worIdbank.orgldata/                                                           9/10/01



Statement of Loan and Credits
ROMANIA: Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan
DOiference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbu3nte
Prjed ID       FY   Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA        SF       GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frn Rev'd
P00877         1994 PeladeumSectorRehabilita8on                     175.60                           0.00       0.00     71.50      71.50     -52.90
P00764        1994 Educaton Reform                                    .00                           0.00       0.00      9.00       9.00      9.00
P008776        1995 Errpnoyent & Sodal Protecon                     55.40                           0.00       0.00     29.60      29.60      0.00
P009794        1996 Power Sector Rehabilitalon                      110.00                           0.00      33.50     58170      92.20     83.80
P036013        1996 RalwaySectorRehabilitalion                      120.00                           0.00       0.00     31.80      31.80      0.00
P008793        1997 HligherEducaton                                  S0.00                           0.00       0.00     15.80      15.60      1.60
P039250        1997 Second Roeads                                   150.00                           0.00       0.00     22.90     .14.60      0.00
P044614        1998 Sdods Rehabilitallon                             70.00                           0.00       0.00     40.80      33.30     4620
P034213        1990 Genial Cadastre and Land Regstrallon             25.50                           0.00       0.00     23.00      13.00      0.00
P008781        1998 Telecomuncatlons                                 30.00                           0.00       7.00     15.40      21.80     10.30
P066495        199  Child Welfare Reform                              S.00                           0.00       0.00      2.40       2.20      0.00
Po5O234        1999 Culturet Hantage                                  5.00                           0.00       0.00      420        4.00      0.10
P039251        1999 Private Sector insltkon Building                 25.00                           0.00       1.10     14.00       9.10      0.00
P056337        2O0 line Cuosre & Sodal Itigation                     44.50                           0.00       0.00     41.30      23.80      0.00
P0438S2        2000 Agicufre SupportServces                          11.00                           0.00       0.00     10.40       1.80      0.00
P05041        2000 TredeS Transport FaclitlaUon In SEE EUR         17.10                           0.00       0.00     15.20      -1.90     0o00
P008797        2000 Healti Sector Refoim                             40.00                           0.00       0.00     28.20      500       0.00
P056891        2001 Rural Finance (APL 1)                            80.00                           0.00       0.00     80.00       2.40      0.00
P008783        2001 Sodal Sector Oevelopinrnt                        50.00                           0.00       0.00     50.00       9.60      0.00
P044176        1999 Sodivedlvsty(GEF)                                 0.00                           5.50       0.00      3.70       2.20      000
P06SOd        2002 Sodal Development Fund 2                         20.00                           0.00       0.00     20.00       0.00      0.00
Total:     1134.10                          5.50       41.60     585.70     361.40     46.70



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1993               Alcatel                       5.97    0.00    0.70    0.00    5.97    0.00    0.70    0.00
1999               Ambro                         7.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.76    0.00    0.00    0.00
199V/02            Banc Post                     0.O0    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
2001               BancaRoman  sca               5.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.12    0.00    0.00    0.00
199S               Bilstein Compa                1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35    1.35    0.00    0.00    1.35
1996               Danube Fund                   0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1998               DemirRomania                  2.86    2.55    0.00    0.00    2.86    2.55    0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                  3.92    0.00    0.00    4.00    5.92    0.00    0.00    4.00
1998               FCR Fund                      0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    o.oo
1998               Gamnta                        0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00
1998               Small Bus. Loan               5.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
2001               ICME                         13.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Knqpp Compa                   5.26    0.00    0.00    2.26    4.16    0.00    0.00    1.78
1997/00            Mobil Rom                    38.14    0.00   10.00  146.86   38.14    0.00   10.00  146.86
1997               Rambox                        1.09    0.00    2.00    0.00    1.09    0.00    2.00    0.00
1994/98101         Romlease                      5.64    1.02    0.00    0.00    2.64    1.02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfblio:       97.76    16.20   22.70  154.47   77.01   15.90   22.70  153.99
Approvals Pending Conmmiinent
FY Approval        Comny                           Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2001              Kronospan Rom                   30.20      0.00     0.00     45.73
Total Pending Commdtment:       30.20     0.00      0.00    45.73



Annex 6. MAP
94



IBRD 28710
24'                         2
U K R A I N E    T. .oooo                             ROMAN           I A
-4-?')   -  ~ ,g\ X X '  jRoKoomyyT K.I..j .                                           ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
-'  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  It,                                a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED CITIES
H       U N G A R Y                                                                   J                       COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
EAt~~~~~~~~~~C
'  C              * V  NATIONAL CAPITAL
/                                            1-      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPRESSWAY
-\~~~~~~ i                                                     _ r ,  V                  - \ 
2.>-.>?  \  ----~~~~~~  ~-  ct ~OTNER PORTS
-446 ToimPs[^ fTeicrrdfonkp g:/[auesRt  /               s                                   1  45 1  A
-heboundori es,coJ .irs   C  .t /  ,1  f  O \  W>RR)                           lsV    aA )   -Gi -. - COUNTY(JUDET BOUNDARIES
/ n                                           it         \   AL0teJ.c arsYJ                     -- INThENATIONALBOUNDA-IES
T. 61ld.                                               E Sra sAu
7                                                  v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/6
-T. S-g.Add         L-                                       >  'Ns
MILES
sEt8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
TIMIS   7                                                                              .7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t m -N't                                                    A       GALATI
/                 ~i                         (1Li Jet a R          -n.
~~~~~  (                                                   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~R . ATolc  E
jO__.                                                      I L 0M ITA
FED. REP. OF                 LErqT 
YUGOSLAVIA                          /    Crc,iovoOL                                     CALAR
(Serbia/Montenegro)                             0                                                              lcs0**B L ACK
a- Mop                                  ~~~~~~~~~~         ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~Cajo  Si Osro  CONST  T44'-
Mop g N Sof lrt of The World Bock.r.)                     . 
Tho bo-idodeo  color  d-ooi,oo,cs*.sot\                        Ae-ors
soc/i loocncloHco.  ~2,                     ~    B U  L GA   RI 1,o 2ocu28
MAYT 1997



