Report No. PID9385
Project Name                     Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           ECSPF
Project ID                       ROPE67575
Borrower                         Government of Romania
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Contact person: Mioara Ionescu
Phone: (40 1) 410 11 89
Fax: (40 1) 312 1630
Email: Mioionescu@ctif.mfinante.ro
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           November 5, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 14, 2001
Appraisal Date                   October 1, 2001
Projected Board Date             January 24, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Recognizing the need for effective structural reforms to reverse
economic decline and get the economy on the path to sustainable growth and
development, Romania made important strides in the past two years to
re-establish credibility and accountability with the international
community--both donor as well as private sector. Reform program received a
further boost from Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL I) and the
accompanying PIBL I, which helped finance the Government's reform program
involving (i) restructuring and privatization in the banking sector,
(ii) liberalization and privatization in the state enterprise sector,
(iii) an assessment of and improvements in the business environment, and
(iv) delivery of social assistance to affected workers and communities.
Continued progress in these areas within the context of an increasingly stable
macroeconomic framework, along with ambitious public administration reform and
more extensive financial sector reform, remain at the core of the GOR reform
program.
GOR met all conditionalities under PSAL I ahead of schedule. This performance,
along with recognition by the Bank that GOR is now at a critical point in
transforming the economy from a sluggish state-owned model to one that is
poised for private sector-oriented growth, allowed the Bank to proceed with
preparation of PSAL II and its accompanying technical assistance loan,PIBL II.
2. Project Objectives
The proposed PIBL II and its attendant support for successful implementation
of PSAL II are to provide enhance the private sector's role in the economy



through the transfer of state-owned assets, the final restructuring and
privatization of state-owned banks, the creation of an environment conducive
to private sector growth and development, and prudent rationalization and
contraction of public administration with a focus on professionalization and
improved service delivery. Success will be indicated by a reduction in the
public sector deficit (associated with loss-making state enterprises),
better performing banks, the increase in volume and profitability of private
sector economic activity, and more stable fiscal accounts.
3.   Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has extensive experience and knowledge of the process of
privatization and the restructuring of the financial sector. The Bank is thus
in a unique position to furnish practical advice on privatization, bank
restructuring and design of economic incentives. The Bank can also draw upon
its international network of consultants and advisors to bring the latest best
practices to Romania to strengthen the capacity of Romania institutions. The
World Bank will also assist in implementation of the project through hands-on
supervision and imparting knowledge of Bank procurement methods to Romanian
counterparts.
4. Description
Privatization Support for Enterprises: Under this component, technical
assistance will be provided to support large SOE divestiture through
case-by-case privatizations, work-outs and liquidations, and privatizations
through pools. More specific steps include case-by-case privatizations and
restructuring of major SOEs; new major privatizations; pool privatizations
involving the sale of at least 30 targeted companies; privatization of another
200 SOEs in which SOF holds residual shares; SOF liquidation of, or at least
the appointment of liquidators for SOEs generating at least percent of the
losses (including State subsidies) of the State Ownership Fund; loss
reduction and privatization of national companies and regies autonomes,
including a 20 percent proportional reduction of the accounting losses of six
mining companies, and contracts issued for the technical closure and
environmental work at a minimum of 20 mines.
Privatization Support for Utilities: Under this component, technical
assistance will be provided to support the divestiture of key enterprises in
the oil, electricity/power generation, and broadcast sectors, including
majority or strategic sales under market conditions. Anticipated next steps in
enterprise sector reform are also expected to involve improvement in the
regulatory framework for key utilities to make conditions more conducive to
liberalization and competition. Divestiture will include the use of investment
bankers as privatization advisors to accelerate the process of liberalization
and reform.
Financial Sector Restructuring and Privatization Support: Technical
assistance to the financial sector would cover the following: privatizing BA,
BCR, and CEC bank along with the elimination of virtually every other type of
commercial public sector banking; strengthening the legal and regulatory
framework for market-based banking by introducing measures, instruments and
judicial capacity to enforce creditors' rights, and by bringing tax
legislation affecting banking operations into line with international
standards; developing the capital and money markets by strengthening
legislation, regulatory capacity and infrastructure; enhancing infrastructure
support by (a) strengthening the payment and clearing system via automation of
-2 -



large value payments and electronic payment clearing, (b) mandating IAS for
all banks in their financial reporting and financial disclosure to the NBR, as
well as by NBR in its supervision and examination of banks, (c) making deposit
insurance more feasible under improved institutional structures and incentives,
and (d) establishing a credit information bureau design for the banking system
as a centralized source of information, data, and credit rating for
individuals and corporate borrowers; and strengthening institutional capacity
at the banks by improving governance, strategic planning, and the utilization
of technical assistance.
Support for an Improved Business Environment:Technical assistance to
strengthen the business environment would involve the comprehensive removal/
reduction of administrative barriers, improvements in shareholder protection,
and better accounting and audit standards. More specific steps include the
following easing of administrative barriers: considerable actions to address
business barriers that were identified at a Bank-supported conference to
remove administrative barriers in support of business development; elimination
of any remaining special funds not conforming to the agreed principles for
such funds, and necessary compensating adjustments to central budget
allocations have been made; refraining from creation of any new non-conforming
funds; completing the merging of systems of corporate identification;
eliminating all ministerial registration, inspection, reporting and remittance
requirements associated with eliminated special funds; eliminating the role
and function of the Economic Police of the Ministry of the Interior;
implementing a foreign exchange notification system for financial institutions;
integrating the Trade Registration and Tax Registration systems;
implementing a plan for the further integration of all corporate and corporate
identifier systems including those for import, export, safety, labor, taxation
and trade; simplifying procedures for obtaining work permits and long-term
visas for expatriates; preparing coordinated standardization legislation; and
adopting international best practices for building permits. Other measures
will focus on shareholder protection and improved accounting/audit practices.
More specifically, these will involve the introduction of shareholder
protection legislation that protects minority shareholders from dilution of
interest through in-kind contributions by the majority shareholder; the
introduction of shareholder protection legislation that does not give minority
shareholders the right to block capital increases or other corporate decisions
in a manner that is inconsistent with international standards for shareholder
protection; the implementation of all actions under Article 12 of the Ministry
of Finance order Concerning the Approval of the Chamber of Auditors' Statute;
and enhanced discipline of the auditing process, professional training and
licensing of auditors.
Social Protection and Poverty Reduction: Privatization and restructuring are
expected to generate enormous medium-term benefits to the economy. However,
these actions will also entail layoffs, social insurance payments, and other
forms of coverage that will represent budgetary expenditure. In addition, past
assistance has not been particularly well targeted or delivered.
To mitigate social costs and support more efficient social protection, and
effective poverty reduction. Particular objectives include the provision of
adequate yet sustainable income support to laid-off workers without
undermining work incentives; assisting laid-off workers in obtaining
alternative employment; strengthening the social safety net for the long-term
unemployed and the poorest within society; pursuing comprehensive reform of
-3 -



the pension system by improving the equity of the public system in a
financially sustainable way, while introducing and regulating the private
pension scheme; and improving implementation of public policy coordination
between central and local administrative units on poverty reduction programs.
Project Management Unit (PMU): A PMU would be established under to auspices of
the Ministry of Finance to coordinate and implement the project.
5. Financing
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance's (MOF) International Financial Department is the main
counterpart for the project. The overall coordination of the project would
rest with theProject Management Unit (PMU), which will be established at the
Ministry of Finance.The PMU will be headed by Mr.<..>, who will have overall
responsibility for the project and report to the Prime Minister. He will be
assisted by a Project Manager who will oversee the day to day operations of
the project. The PMU has selected a project administrator, who is well versed
in Bank procurement, disbursements and contracting procedures. He will be
assisted by a procurement specialist, a disbursement specialist and an
accountant. The disbursement and procurement specialists have been selected.
7. Sustainability
The proposed PSAL II supports reforms that will enhance Romania's long-term
prospects for economic growth and development; provide underlying support to
workers displaced by restructuring; and promote development of conditions that
would accelerate Romania's preparation for formal entry into the European
Union and other organizations.
To help Romania achieve sustainable growth, the World Bank proposes a private
sector adjustment loan (PSAL II) of $300 million. This loan is to provide
balance-of-payments support to GOR as it undergoes necessary but costly
restructuring of its enterprise and financial sectors and introduces needed
public sector reforms. The PSAL II financing would help sustain momentum
during a pivotal period in the economy by pursuing five key development
objectives: (i) the exit of public banks in the Romanian banking system
from government ownership through privatization and other options acceptable
to the Bank. This would be accompanied by a series of measures to strengthen
the overall environment for private sector-based banking and financial sector
modernization; (ii) divesting the largest public sector industrial and
commercial loss-makers from the government portfolio; (iii) improving the
legal and regulatory framework for financial and private sector development in
support of increased investment and sustainable levels of financial
intermediation; (iv) strengthening the business environment by removing
administrative, tax and other barriers that impede investment and growth; (v)
focusing on social mitigation.
In addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, all of these actions would
promote development of a market-based economy with stronger governance,
management,transparency, and participation which should result in sustainable
economic growth.
-4-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A key lesson from past projects has been the limitation of the GOR's
administrative capacity in the implementation of projects. This includes
fundamental requirements such as producing needed TORs in a timely manner,
developing scoring systems to evaluate bids, etc. PIBL II support for the PMU
will help with implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)                          Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD4.01 Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in Category
B". The environmental audits that will be prepared by the transaction
advisors for all privatizations under PSAL 2 will serve as the necessary
Environmental Management Plans. The World Bank will also reserve the right
review the environmental audits and the government's enforcement of the
responsibility for environmental liabilities and laws. This requirement should
be incorporated into the legal agreement to be signed between the Government
and the World Bank.
Contact Point:
Project Team Leader
Rodrigo A. Chaves
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-7422
Fax No.: (202) 522-0005
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Tel: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note:This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Novemeber 9,2001
- 5 -



World Bank User
K:\romania\PSAL II PID.doc
7/10/00 5:52 PM
- 6 -
- 6 -



