                Romania- SecondPrivateSector Adiustment LoanNo. 4675-RO
                        Releaseof the SecondTranche- FullCompliance

                                       I. BACKGROUND
 The SecondPrivate Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL 11) was designed to build on andcomplement
the financial and enterprise sector reforms already undertaken by the Government, supported by
the World Bank andthe first Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL I). loanpursued five key
                                                                           The
development objectives:
            the exit o fpublic banks from government ownership through privatization and other
            options acceptable to the Bank, accompanied by measuresto strengthen the overall
            environment for private sector banking and financial sector modernization;
            divestiture of the largest public sector industrial and commercial loss-makers from the
            government portfolio. This divestiturewas accompanied by other measures to
            complete privatizationo f pools o f enterprises andjoint ventures, to ensure the
            privatization procedures are transparent, fair and properly scrutinized so that the
            residual effects o f privatizationdo not serve as an obstacle to future privatization
            transactions;
            reform of the energy sector to introduce modem management principles and sound
            regulationto ensure that utility companies (e.g., electricity and gas) are not used as
            sources of cross-subsidization and soft credit (through arrears) that forestalls needed
            restructuring of enterprises. This reforni will be accompanied by the adoption of the
            necessary legal and regulatory framework for private sector participation, increasing
            prices towards cost recovery levels, ensuring consistency and transparency in tariff
            structures, and increasing collections for sustainable operations, needed reinvestment,
            and higher quality services delivery;
            strengthening of the business environment by the removal o f the administrative
            barriers that impede investment and trade, the removal of the most special hnds for
            fiscal consolidation and transparency, and a strengthening o f accounting, governance
            and bankruptcy standards and practices for a more competitive private sector-oriented
            economy; and
            provision o fmeaningfid social protection for those displaced by restructuringand
            privatization and strengthening the effectiveness o f the social safety net inthe long
            term.
                       11.     RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Romania is pursuinga broad reform agenda, including economic, institutionaland governance
reforms, anchored inthe process o f EU accession. As a result, growth has been re-established
with GDP growth of4.9 percent in2003, ledprimarily by investment and exports. Inflationhas
also declined from 40 percent in2000 and 22.5 percent in2002 to 15.3 percent (CPI, period
average) in2003. Good macroeconomic performance contributedto reach a record level of
official reserves of over US$7 billion in2003 -an impressive increase o f US$3.5 billion since
2000. However, there has been a markeddeterioration of the current account deficit to 5.9
percent of GDP in2003 from 3.4 percent in 2003 fuelled in part by expansion o fbank credit to

 the private sector, which grew by about 45 percent inreal terms (largely consumer credit and
 mortgages) and by the effects o f earlier increases inwages.

 FDIincreased slightly in2003, hovering around the last three years' averageand financing46
 percent of the current account gap. The fiscal deficit is at a relatively manageable level of 2.3
 percent of GDP, down from 4.0 percent in2000. Public sector debt at the end o f 2003 was 26.2
 percent of GDP.

 Quasi fiscal deficits remain highhowever, stemming from arrears and non-payment inthe SOE
 sector. Problems are most persistent inthe energy sector, particularly district heating. Quasi
 fiscal deficits and implicit subsidies are also prevalent inthe miningand railway sectors where
 non-payment to pensions and social funds are common.

 The banking sector is on firmer footing and direct lendingby the central bank has been
 eliminated. Incontrast to the past, privatization seems to be picking up momentumas well as
restructuring of the railway and mining sectors. Progress in stabilizationand growth contributed
to a decline inpoverty to 29 percent in 2002.

IMFProgram:The IMFsuccessfully completed its fifth Stand-By Agreement (SBA) with
Romaniain October last year and is preparing a Precautionary SBA which i s likely to be o f 24
months duration. Two missions have been conducted for this new SBA. Agreement was not
reached on the program at that time. However, duringthe Springmeetings an understanding was
reached on a fiscal deficit o f 2.1 percent of GDP (or less ifrevenue outturn is larger than
currently projected). This was the only outstanding issue, and subject to management approval o f
the deficit target, the SBA is tentatively plannedto go to Board June 30,2004. Reflecting its
concern about the size of quasi-fiscal deficits, the Fundis insistingthat all investment spending,
including the large plannedroadprojects be kept on budgetregardless o f the financing
mechanism.

The new SBA is likely to continue the themes of the previous program with an emphasis on
maintainingmacro stability, reducinginflation, limitingincreases inthe public sector wage bill and
the minimum wage, and pursuing privatizations. In addition, it will likely call for initiation of
bankruptcy proceedings against non-payers of taxes, layoffs in the mining sector, and the closure
of inefficient district heating operations.
A significant portion o f the structural agenda for the Fund has been worked out in close
consultation with the Bank and a growing portion of the correspondence with the authorities on
specific issues has been issued jointly by the Bank and the Fund, (for example, related to
privatization of CEC Savings Bank, reform o f the labor code, and development o f the mining
sector reform strategy). Ina new development for the Fund's program, governance issues are being
directly addressed in the Letter of Intent. This has been done with consultation with the Bank and
echoes closely the content of the PAL program. Managed well, this intensive collaboration and
reinforcing conditionality provides greater impetus for the success of both Bank and Fund
programs and for the overall reformprocess.

Overall, the Bank considers the macroeconomic situation and policy framework in Romania
satisfactory.


                                                  -2-

               III. PROGRESSAGAINSTTRANCHERELEASECRITERIA
 A Bank supervision missionhas confirmedthat the Government has made satisfactory progress
 incarrying out the program outlined inthe Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy and all the conditions
 for second tranche releasehave beenmet overall in areas related to the financial sector, energy
 sector, privatization and social protection. Followingi s a summary o f the Government's actions
 related to the conditions o f the Loan.



 Financial Sector

 1.The Borrower has offered for sale BancaComercialaRomanainaccordancewith
 applicable management, ownership, legal and regulatory requirements of the National
Bank of Romania, and has taken all necessary steps for completing the sale of the said
bank.

Status: Condition has been met.

According to the revisedprivatization strategy, the selling to EBRDand IFC of a stake o f 25
percent plus two shares took place. The transactions with the two international financial
institutionswas completed on October 3,2003. The transactions were debated and approved by
the Boards ofthe two internationalfinancial institutionson October 28 and 30,2003. The
signing ceremony of the two contracts took place on November 4,2003. OnFebruary 27 and
March 1,2004, the Shareholders' Agreement and the contract o f selling option were signed. The
General Shareholders' Assembly held April 23,2004 approved the new structure of the
shareholders and the changes inthe by-law of BCR regarding the separation between the
administrative and executive functions in the BCR's management. The second stage of selling 8
percent of shares to the staffwas also finalized.

2. The Borrower has submitted to the Bank evidence on satisfactory progress in
implementationof the restructuringplan of the Savings Bank, as such plan has been
agreed with the Bank.

Status: Condition has been met.

On August 26, 2003, the team of experts sent by Interprojects GmbH started their activity to
support CEC (the Savings Bank) to implement its restructuring strategy, according to the
concluded twinning management contract. The technical assistance is aimed at supporting the
management of five main departments within CEC (treasury, accounting, IT, network, cards) in
the restructuring process. The contract completion is scheduled for June 2004. Moreover, the
Government decided to proceed with privatizationearlier than initially intended.

OnApril 7,2004, the Cabinet approved an Emergency Governmental Ordinance includingprior
actions to launch the privatizationof CEC. The privatization commissionhas been setup and the
announcement for hiringthe privatization advisor was posted on May 17,2004 inFinancial
Times and other publications.




                                                 -3-

Privatization

3. The Borrower has offered for sale or has taken irreversible measures, agreed upon with
the Bank, for the disposition and sale of the assets of ALRO and ALPROM.

Status: Condition has been met.

ALRO has been privatized (the contract was signed on April 30, 2002 with a consortium that
includes Conef, Marco Acquisition and Marco International). ALPROM also has been privatized
(the contract was signed on December 19,2002 with the same consortium as above).

4. The Borrower has offered for sale, inprivatization pools acceptable to the Bank, eight of
the ten companies selected upon agreement with the Bank; and has worked out, from
work-out pools acceptable to the Bank, eight of the ten companies selected upon agreement
with the Bank, in accordance with the approved restructuring plans.

Status: Condition has beenmet.

All companies inpools were offered for sale/work-out. Out of the 20 companies inpools, nine
companies have beenprivatized, three companies are under a voluntary liquidation process, two
companies are under negotiations, and for six companies offers are expected to be received.

Energy Sector

5. The Borrower has offered Distrigaz Sud and Distrigaz Nord for sale through an open
international competitive tender for strategic buyers and announced the sale and the sale
process to the public.

Status: Condition has been met.

The contract with the Privatization Advisor Credit Suisse First Boston was signed on March 4,
2003. The privatization strategy was completed and submitted to the Government for its approval
on October 24, 2003. It was approved and published in the Official Gazette on November 14,
2003. On December 3, 2003 the Bank issued no objection to the draft announcement and on
December 5, 2003 the announcement was published in Financial Times, Adevaml, Ziaml
financiar, Romania Libera, Bursa andNine0'Clock.

ByJanuary 23,2004 the following companies submittedpreliminary and unbindingoffers.

    Distrigaz Nord: Wintershall - Germany, Gazprom - Russia, Gaz de France - France, E.ON/
    Ruhrgas-Germany and Enel- Italy;
0   Distrigaz Sud: Gazprom - Russia, Gaz de France - France, E.ON/ Ruhrgas-Germany and
   Enel - Italy.

All investors were qualified for the next stage. The final offers are expected to be submittedby
July 16,2004.



                                              -4-

  6. The Borrower has offered for sale at least fifty-one percent (51 percent) of the total
  capital of Petrom, and has made progress with the sale process, in accordance with a
  privatization plan agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.

  Status: Condition has been met.

 The privatization advisor (consortium including Credit Suisse First Boston and ING Barings)
 finalized the privatization strategy, which has been approved by the Governmental Decision
 no.924/ 2003. The sale announcement was published on August 26, 2003. By September 19,
 2003, 15 expressions of interest were received, out o f which only 11were short listed and only
 eight submitted preliminary and unbinding offers. The privatization committee reviewed these
 offers together with the privatization advisor. The negotiations on the preliminary and unbinding
 offers were completed by end-February 2004.

 The final offers were received on April 15,2004 from OMV-Austria, MOL-Hungary, Occidental
Petroleum-USA. The winning bidder was announced on May 21, 2004 and the Government
started concluding negotiations with OMV. The contract is expected to be signed by end-July
2004.


7. The Borrower has: (a) approved a privatization strategy for the two electricity
distribution companies, satisfactory to the Bank, and offered for sale the controlling shares
in said companies; and (b) adopted a privatization strategy for the electricity generation
sector, acceptable to the B a n k


Status: Condition has been met.

(a) The pre-qualification o f the potential investors expressing interest was completed at the end
of March 2003. Four companies were prequalified and invited to bid. By the beginning of July
2003, only ENEL-Italy announced their intention to submit the preliminary and unbindingoffers
for both companies which were received and have been negotiated. The final and binding offers
were received in March 2004. The contract is expected to be signed by end-June 2004. Two
other distribution companies have been offered for sale. The privatization o f these two and the
remaining four will be supported under the PALprogram.
(b) In 2003 the Government approved a Road Map for the Energy Sector. In addition to the
restructuring of Termoelectrica, this addresses the privatization of two of its four subsidiaries. The
processwas launched and is supportedby the PALprogram.
A similar restructuring and partial privatization will be carried out for Hidroelectrica (the main
hydropower generator). The timing of the privatization will be linked to the development of the
electricity market, for which the Bank is providing support under the ongoing Electricity Market
Project.


8. The Borrower had submitted satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the cumulative
year-to-date rate of collection for payments to Distrigaz Sud and Distrigaz Nord has
reached ninety-seven and a half percent (97.5 percent) o f the total billings, and that the


                                                 -5-

 accounts payable to the gas producers and gas transmission companies, resulting from gas
 delivery, will be paid within sixty (60) days, commencing on January 1,2002.


 Status: Condition has beenmet.


 Collections are subject to monthly monitoring. By end-April2004, the cumulative year-to-date
 rate (January -April 2004) of collection for payments to Distrigaz Sud and DistrigazNordwas
 about 105 percent o f the total billings. To eliminate seasonalvariations, collection performance
 i s also assessed on a 12-month rolling basis. The collection rate on a 12-monthrollingbasis (May
 2003 -April 2004) was about 100percent of 12-month billings. The company-by-company
 breakdown o fyear-to-date (and 12-month) collection rates as o f end-April2004 was as follows:

                 Distrigaz Sud - 104.8 percent (12-month rate 101.9 percent)
             0   Distrigaz Nord- 105.4 percent (12-month rate 98.1 percent)

 The accounts payable to the gas producers and gas transmission companies, resulting from gas
delivery, was paidwithin 55 days o f sales, commencing on January 1,2002.


9. The Borrower has submitted satisfactory evidence to the Bank that: (a) the cumulative
monthly rate of collection for payments to Electrica has reached at least ninety-seven and a
half percent (97.5 percent) of the total billings for the period commencing from January 1,
2002; (b) the monthly rate of collection for payments to Termoelectrica has reached one
hundred percent (100 percent) of the total electricity billings for each month commencing
from October 1,2001; and (c) the cumulative monthly rate of collection for payments to
Termoelectrica for district heating supplies has reached at least ninety-seven and a half
percent (97.5 percent) of the total billings for the period commencing from January 1,
2002.


la) Status: Condition has been met.
Jb) Status: Condition hasbeen substantially met.
lc) Status: Condition has been substantially met.


Collections are subject to monthly monitoring. The primary performance measure is a 12-month
rolling average to smoothen the impact of seasonal variations. The achievements at end-April
2004 were:

     0   Electrica- 99.0 percent (99.6 percent inApril 2004)
     0   Termoelectrica for electricity - 97.0 percent (144.6 percent inApril 2004)
     0   Termoelectrica for district heat - 95.3 percent (185.9 percent inApril 2004)
(a) Electrica collections - collections from electricity consumers. In 2003 Electrica achieved
98.0 percent collection level, meeting the agreed 97.5 percent target. From May 2003 until April
2004, the collection rate was slightly higher at 99.0 percent. While these are highly satisfactory
collection rates, challenges remain in collections from some state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and


                                                 -6-

 government agencies. The Government has acknowledged it is ultimately responsible for these
 non-payments, and in May 2004 approved an Ordinance under which it undertakes to make
 payments from the budget in cases where utilities are obliged to continue to supply defaulting
 state-owned enterprises and other government agencies. It is expected that this explicit
 commitment will help ensure that non-payment in the electricity sector remains under control. Bill
 collection from non-government consumers is satisfactory and will remainthe responsibility of the
 utilities without budgetary back-stopping.
 Duringthe gas and electricity distributionprivatizationprocesses, the Government tried to pass on
 SOE and other govemment agency arrears to the new private owner. Prospective investors,
 however, regard the arrears to be uncollectible, and agreements were negotiated under which such
 arrears are replacedby long-term govemment bonds. These arrangements reflect the Government's
 acknowledgement that it is responsible for these arrears. The same approach is expected to be
 followed inthe future electricity discom privatizations - includingthe privatization of the other six
 discoms included inthe PALprogram.
 (b) Termoelectrica's collections - for bulk electricity supply. The agreed target of 100percent
 collection has proven to be optimistic. Termoelectrica's collections at 97 percent closely reflect
 those of Electrica's. Termoelectrica collected 93.1 percent of its bill from Electrica and another 4
 percent through a system of offsets. Instead o f the Government paying Electrica for governmental
 electricity consumption, Electrica paying Termoelectrica, and Termoelectrica paying taxes, the
 Government and Termoelectrica offset these liabilities (i.e., govemment payments for electricity
 consumption and Termoelectrica's tax payments to the Govemment were offset). In view o f
 Electrica's collection accomplishments and Termoelectrica' s achievement of collections at 97
percent, the condition is considered substantially met.
 (c) Termoelectrica's collections - for bulk heat supply. The agreed target of 97.5 percent
collections has proven to be optimistic given the poor financial and operational condition o f most
of Termoelectrica's bulk heat clients - district heating utilities selling heat to final consumers,
mostly households. Termoelectrica has however been able to improve its collections substantially
to 95.3 percent through a combination of measures: (i)intensifiedpressure on the clients, and (ii)
by transferring a number of its smaller district heating facilities to the local authorities which are
then also directlyinchargeoftheir heatproduction, inaddition its distribution.

After having restructured electricity and gas sectors, the Government is now launching a program
to restructure the district heating sector. Romania has an extensive district heating system, which
even after some consolidation covers 179 cities. Many o f the systems are under great operational
and financial stress, but the continued provision of heating is an essential service. While tariffs
have been adjusted, they have not kept up with increasing costs. The Government at both the
central and local levels has responded by increasing subsidies, both to heat producers and to heat
consumers. As a result, the annual subsidy burden now exceeds US$350 million and has become
a major fiscal issue.

The Government has prepared with Bank and EU support a strategy for the restructuring of the
district heating sector that aims to address the sector's most chronic operational and financial
issues. The strategy covers pricing, subsidies, and restructuring and rehabilitation o f heat
production, heat distribution and heat consumption, including heat metering and heat control
measures. Difficult decisions including politically sensitive pricing and subsidy issues will then



                                                 -7-

 have to be addressed during the implementation of the strategy. Government approval o f the
 strategy was a condition of the first installment ofthe PALprogram. The proposed PAL2 (FY06)
 and PAL3 (FY07) will support the implementation o f the strategy. It is also proposed that, in
 parallel with the P A Lprogram, the Bank provide investment financing for the implementationo f
 key actions of the strategy.

 The restructuring o f the district heating sector will be a major challenge in Romania. Thus, the
 satisfactory and sustainable resolution o f Tennoelectrica's district heat collections issues will not
 be possible until the program has made considerable progress. In view o f the Government's
 commitment to such restructuring and its interim actions which have brought collections to 95.3
 percent (a highlycommendable level given the condition of the clients), the condition is considered
 substantially met.

 Social Protection System

 10. The Borrower has (a) submitted satisfactory evidence that sufficient portion within the
 Borrower's budget is allocated to finance the MinimumGuaranteed Income Program: and
 (b) enacted a Law on the National Social Assistance System and enabling legislation,
 satisfactory to the B a n k

 Status: Condition has been met.

 For each of the last three years, the budget allocation for the MIGprogram amounted to 0.4
percent of the GDP, as agreed with the Bank and the IMF. Through the Law approvingthe 2003
budget, it provided Lei 6,867.7 billion, out of which Lei 5,495.4 billion was from the state
budget and Lei 1,372.3 billion from the local budgets.

Inaddition, the Parliament hasenactedthe Law 705/2001 on the National SocialAssistance
Systemand Ordinance 68/2003 on Social Assistance Services, satisfactory to the Bank.


11. The Borrower has enacted legislation, acceptable to the Bank, to strengthen the
financial viability and to rationalize the structure and financing mechanism for
unemployment benefits.


Status: Condition has beenmet.

The Law 76/2002 regarding the unemployment insurance and employment incentives has been
enacted and promotes a system of measures stimulating employment and ensuring the financial
viability of the unemployment insurance budget. Inthis way, the Government Decision 377/2002
approved the procedures regarding the access to the employment incentives, financing means
and instructions for their implementation. Through the Law 76/2002 the unique level o f the
unemployment indemnity was established to 75 percent of the country gross minimum wage in
the case ofunemployedpersons, and respectively to 50 percent inthe case o f graduatesnotbeing
able to be employed. Thus, the discrepancies in the system of setting up the unemployment
indemnity were eliminated and the indemnities were correlated with the level of the minimum
wage. As a result, the Unemployment Fundhas       rzl~l
                                                      a budget surplus for the last three years.


                                                 -8-

12. The Borrower has: (a) enhancedand consolidatedthe public pensionpillarreform,
through amendingnecessarylegislationin manner satisfactoryto the Bank; and (b)
submittedto the Parliament a draft legislationon the MandatoryPrivatePensionPillar,
satisfactory to the Bank.


Status: Condition has been met.
[a) Status: Condition has beenmet.


Through the Law 333/2002 the Parliament approved some amendments to the Law 19/2002 on
the continuation o f the reform and consolidation of the public pensions pillar, setting up
transparent and financially viable indexation rules.

Jb) Status: Conditionhasbeenmet.


The draft Law on the Mandatory Second Pillar was drafted and posted on the website on
November 14, 2003 for public debates. It was submitted to the Government for a first lecture on
May 6, 2004 and was discussed on May 20, 2004. The draft Law was also discussed on June 3,
2004 at a Cabinet meeting, and approved inprinciple. It is expected to bepublished and submitted
to the Parliament inJune 2004.


                                     IV.     CONCLUSIONS
Inview ofthe overallperformance andprogress with the implementation o ftheprogram supported
by the Loan, and incompliance with the specific conditions of release as described inSection 2.02
(d) and Schedule 3 of the Loan Agreement, the Bank has informed the Borrower of the
availability of the second tranche inthe equivalent of EUR 169,900,000.




                                                -9-

