             Document of
           The World Bank




                                       Report No: 32653

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (SCL-46750)

                 ON A

                LOAN

   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION

                 TO

               ROMANIA

                FOR A

SECOND PRIVATE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN




             JUNE 16, 2005

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2005)

                          Currency Unit = Romanian Leu (ROL)
                                  ROL 1 = US$ 0.0000339
                                   US$ 1 = ROL 29,540

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANRE        -      Agency for Electricity and Heat
ANRGN       -      Agency for Oil and Gas
APAPS -     Authority for Privatization and Management of State Ownership
AVAB        -      Autoritatea pentru Valorificareaa Activelor Bancare
                   (Bank Resolution Authority)
BCR         -      Romanian Commercial Bank
CEC Bank    -      Casa de Economii si Consemnatiuni (the Savings Bank)
CNVM        -      National Securities Commission
DGF         -      Deposit Guaranty Fund
EBRD        -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EU          -      European Union
FIAS        -      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
ISC         -      Insurance Supervision Commission
IAS         -      International Accounting Standards
ISA         -      International Standards on Auditing
MIG         -      Minimum Income Guarantee
MoPF        -      Ministry of Public Finance
NBR         -      National Bank of Romania
PSAL        -      Private Sector Adjustment Loan
PIBL        -      Private Sector Institution Building Loan
PPIBL       -      Private and Public Sector Institution Building Loan
RASDAQ      -      Romanian Electronic Trading System
RICOP       -      Enterprise Restructuring and Employment Conversion Program
RTGS        -      Real Time Gross Settlement
SMEs        -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SOEs        -      State-Owned Enterprises
SOF         -      State Ownership Fund
TA          -      Technical Assistance

                         Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director      Anand Seth
                        Sector Director      Fernando Montes-Negret
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Arabela Aprahamiam

                                          ROMANIA
                            Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27

Project ID: P067575                                                  Project Name: Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Arabela Sena Aprahamian                                 TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-46750
   Country/Department: ROMANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (27%); Oil and gas (22%);
                            Banking (17%); Power (17%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (17%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Social
                            safety nets (S); Improving labor markets (S); Social risk mitigation
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/03/2001                                     Effective: 10/01/2002                10/01/2002
     Appraisal: 10/05/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/12/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Lynn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul J. Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Arabela Sena Aprahamian
ICR Primary Author:             Arabela Sena Aprahamian


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background and context. After three years of real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) decline, the Romanian
economy began growing in 2000. To ensure a sustainable growth, strong actions were needed to complete
the divestiture of the enterprise sector, restructuring and privatization of state-owned banks, and the
reduction of losses of utility enterprises. To this end, the Government requested World Bank assistance to
design and implement the Second Private Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL II).

PSAL II was designed to build on and complement the financial and enterprise sector reforms already
undertaken by the Government and supported by the World Bank under the Private Sector Adjustment
Loan (PSAL I). The loan pursued five key development objectives:

    (i) The exit of public banks from government ownership through privatization and other options
    acceptable to the Bank, accompanied by measures to strengthen the overall environment for private
    sector banking and financial sector modernization;

    (ii) divestiture of the largest public sector industrial and commercial loss-makers from the government
    portfolio. This divestiture was accompanied by other measures to complete privatization of pools of
    enterprises and joint ventures, to ensure the privatization procedures were transparent, fair and
    properly scrutinized so that the residual effects of privatization did not serve as an obstacle to future
    privatization transactions;

    (iii) reform of the energy sector to introduce modern management principles and sound regulation to
    ensure that utility companies (e.g., electricity and gas) were not used as sources of cross-subsidization
    and soft credit (through arrears) that forestalls needed restructuring of enterprises. This reform was
    accompanied by the adoption of the necessary legal and regulatory framework for private sector
    participation, increasing prices towards cost recovery levels, ensuring consistency and transparency in
    tariff structures, and increasing collections for sustainable operations, needed reinvestment, and higher
    quality services delivery;

    (iv) strengthening of the business environment by the removal of the administrative barriers that impede
    investment and trade, the removal of most special funds for fiscal consolidation and transparency, and
    a strengthening of accounting, governance and bankruptcy standards and practices for a more
    competitive private sector-oriented economy; and

    (v) provision of meaningful social protection for those displaced by restructuring and privatization and
    strengthening the effectiveness of the social safety net in the long-term.

The structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors envisioned under the loan were designed to
enhance Romania's prospects for growth and reinforce the sustainability of its macroeconomic stabilization.
Resources from this and other Bank loans were provided to mitigate the social costs for those displaced by
restructuring and privatization. These measures were consistent with Romania's quest to accede to the
European Union (EU), a goal which provided an important incentive for the Government to pursue difficult
reforms.

The project development objectives reflected the Government's long term goals and strategic priorities. In
particular, the objectives supported many of the most difficult structural reforms necessary to lay the



                                                       - 2 -

foundation for a market-based economy. They were also clearly focused and well targeted, particularly as a
result of the Government's experience under PSAL I.

The objectives also were well aligned with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which
envisioned (i) supporting and accelerating economy-wide structural and institutional reforms, and (ii)
alleviating the social consequences of reform.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The PSAL II was a two-tranche operation of EUR 339.8 million (US$ 300 million equivalent). The first
tranche of EUR 169.9 million was disbursed on October 15, 2002 upon loan effectiveness. The second
tranche of EUR 169.9 was floating and was disbursed on July 7, 2004 upon successful completion of the
agreed reform program.

The project had five main components:

Financial Sector Reform
l Elimination of state ownership of banks. The Government's program included measures to strengthen
    the overall environment for private sector-based financial intermediation and banking, and financial
    sector modernization. In particular, the details included full privatization of the banking sector;
    improved enforcement of the legal and regulatory framework in the banking sector; development of the
    Government securities market; introduction of an adequate legal and regulatory framework for capital
    markets, and more active use of these markets for debt and equity financing and strengthening of the
    National Securities Commission; strengthening of banking sector infrastructure (i.e., movement to Real
    Time Gross Settlement and general modernization of the payment and settlement system, use of
    International Accounting Standards (IAS), a sustainable Deposit Guarantee Fund, introduction of a
    comprehensive Credit Scoring System for more active use of the Credit Information Bureau by the
    banks and National Bank of Romania (NBR) for credit risk monitoring; and strengthening of the
    Insurance Supervision Commission.

Privatization and Divestiture of Large State-owned Enterprises
l Divestiture of the largest public sector industrial and commercial loss-makers from the Government
    portfolio, more rapid exit of the state from the enterprise sector as a whole, and implementation of
    privatization transactions under more transparent conditions that strengthen rather than harm
    Romania's reputation at home and abroad. The Government aimed to achieve this objective by
    finalizing the privatization process started under PSAL I, including of several large enterprises (i.e.,
    ALRO and ALPROM); introducing and completing the restructuring and workout of state-owned
    enterprises (SOEs) and pools of SOEs, including some large enterprises such as TAROM (the state
    airline) that will operate under a loss-containment plan with the hope of being offered for sale and
    privatized; and closing out virtually all of the portfolio of Authority for Privatization and Management
    of State Ownership (APAPS) to rid the state of residual interests in some large and most small- and
    medium-scale enterprises. Equally important in PSAL II were the modalities of privatization being set
    by the Government. Recognizing that past transactions had often been the subject of criticism due to
    non-disclosure, reports of private deals, insider transactions, and related charges, the Bank set out to
    monitor closely the progress of implementation without directly influencing the decision-making



                                                      - 3 -

    process.

Energy Sector Reform
l Reduction of the quasi-fiscal activities of energy utilities. The Government aimed to achieve this
    objective by introducing major reform of the gas and oil sector (i.e., selling controlling stakes of gas
    distributors and Petrom to strategic international buyers, rationalizing tariff structures, increasing
    payables and receivables turnover to contain arrears, reviewing the tax regime); introducing a modern
    legal, regulatory and institutional framework to encourage private sector competition of network
    industries; and undertaking a full-scale reform of the power sector for efficiency, reliable service, fair
    pricing, and proper regulatory oversight.

Business Environment
l Improvement of the business environment, mainly through adoption of a unified corporate income
    tax law that creates a level playing field for domestic and international investors. In addition to
    adoption and implementation of this critical piece of legislation, the Government aimed to remove
    administrative barriers (i.e., permits, licenses, inspections, visa); rationalize and consolidate
    institutional fiscal responsibilities and special extra-budgetary funds; improve the tax environment for
    businesses to encourage more permanent hires; strengthen corporate governance standards (including
    minority shareholder rights); implement sound, internationally recognized accounting standards and
    financial audit requirements; and introduce a more effective system of bankruptcy and liquidation to
    assist in enterprise restructuring.

Strengthening the Social Protection System
l Mitigation of social costs of adjustment, more efficient social protection, and effective poverty
    reduction. Particular objectives included the provision of adequate yet sustainable income support to
    laid-off workers without undermining work incentives; assisting laid-off workers in obtaining
    alternative employment; strengthening the social safety net for the long-term unemployed and the
    poorest within society; pursuing comprehensive reform of the pension system by improving the equity
    of the public system in a financially sustainable way, while introducing and regulating the private
    pension scheme; and improving implementation of public policy coordination between central and local
    administrative units for poverty reduction programs.

The loan included two categories of conditions for each of the five policy components: 25 core conditions
provided in a policy matrix and additional non-core conditions and benchmarks provided in the
implementation plan attached to the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP). The loan was
front-end loaded with 13 core conditions and additional non-core conditions already completed prior to the
Board presentation and for releasing the first tranche. Another group of 12 core conditions were triggers for
release of the second tranche.

The loan was also supported by two loans, the Private Sector Institution Building Loan (PIBL) and Public
and Private Institution Building Loan (PPIBL), which provided the Government with technical assistance
resources to implement its ambitous reform program.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components of the loan were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:




                                                       - 4 -

Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory based on the following considerations: (i) consistency of objectives
with the CAS and government priorities; (ii) the overall project design; and (iii) technical strength of the
program and incorporation of best practices, particularly related to privatization.

The PSAL II operation was envisioned under the high case lending scenario in the CAS which was
discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on June 19, 2001. The program was consistent with the
CAS and its objectives of promoting structural adjustment through enterprise and financial sector reforms.
The loan provided balance-of-payments support that the Government needed to undertake necessary, yet
costly restructuring of its enterprise and financial sectors. In addition, the loan supported reforms that
enhanced Romania's long term prospects for macroeconomic growth and development and improved
Romania's prospects for EU accession.

The operation was a direct continuation of the PSAL I program and benefitted substantially from the
experience gained under the first operation. In particular, this continuity allowed the project preparation
team to gain an understanding of local dynamics related to bank and enterprise sector reforms and thus
tailor international best practices to the Romanian context. The social protection program was also well
designed and comprehensive in order to help mitigate the costs of adjustment.

Despite the broad reform program supported by PSAL II, the project team was also able to be identify
twelve most critical actions as core conditionalities and define them in a such a manner as to allow
effective monitoring of their implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of the objectives and outputs is considered satisfactory. In accordance with the loan
conditionality, the Government made major achievements in all focus areas in a relatively short period of
time. In less than two years from the loan effectiveness, the operation was fully disbursed.

Highlights of main achievements include:

l Privatization and liquidation of more than 54 SOE, substantially reducing annual fiscal losses to the
    Government, and laying the groundwork for a private-sector led economy.

l Significant reduction of government influence and ownership over the banking sector through
    divestiture of Banca Comerciala Romana (BCR), and restructuring of Casa de Economii si
    Consemnatiuni (CEC Bank), the savings bank.

l Reform of the energy sector as a result of increased collections and privatizations of large state-owned
    enterprises.

l Improvement of the business environment through strengthening of company and the transparency
    laws, the insolvency regime, and auditing and accounting practices.

l Strengthening of the social protection system though increased budget allocations to support for
    laid-off workers and amendments to the pension system.

The only areas where performance was less than expected concerned the level collections in the energy
sector. In spite of a very tight monthly monitoring system Termoelectrica's collections ­ for bulk electricity
supply and for bulk heat supply was only substantially met. The agreed target of 100 percent collection for
bulk electricity supply and 97.5 percent collections for bulk heat supply proved to be optimistic. Two



                                                      - 5 -

factors contributed to less than expected rates of collection in the energy sector, significant price increases
and an unusually cold winter season. Especially in the district heating, the target appeared to be very
difficult to be achieved due to the nature of the final consumers, mostly households. Apart from these
deviations, the Government achieved or exceeded objectives, met all conditions six months earlier than the
closing date of December 31, 2004 and demonstrated full compliance with the loan agreement.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Financial Sector Reform

Until 1999, Romania's financial sector was mostly state-owned, with state-owned banks accounting for
about three quarters of the assets of the banking system and about 70 percent of total loans. State-owned
banks suffered from years of Government interference, directed lending, and a host of management and
institutional weaknesses. By 1998-99, these weaknesses made the situation in the financial sector untenable
in the face of the economy's overall deterioration. Against this backdrop, the Government launched
comprehensive institutional and structural reforms in the sector with the support of PSAL I. The reforms
were accelerated under PSAL II as the Government focused on the elimination of state banking,
strengthening bank infrastructure, improving insurance supervision, and developing the capital and equity
markets.

State bank privatization and restructuring. With support of PSAL II, the Government managed to reduce
its influence over and ownership of the financial sector through the partial privatization and establishment
of a new governance structure of BCR and restructuring of CEC bank. These achievements represented
major milestones in financial sector development in Romania and have helped lay the foundation of a more
vibrant and stable banking sector.

    l BCR. With the support of the loan, in October 2003 the Government sold a 25 percent stake plus
         two shares to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the
         International Finance Corporation (IFC). The sale represented a major achievement given the
         difficult market conditions that prevailed at the time the bank was offered for sale. The
         conditionality under PSAL II envisioned the 51 percent privatization of BCR. However, market
         conditions became very difficult shortly after the first tranche of the loan was disbursed, and it
         became clear that the prospects for attracting a strategic investor were poor. With Bank support,
         the Government was able to achieve a highly favorable alternative solution with the sale of the
         stake to EBRD and IFC and of 8 percent to BCR staff. Following these transactions, the
         shareholdings were as follows: Government of Romania 36.8 percent; Financial Investment
         Companies 30.2 percent, IFC 12.5 percent; EBRD 12.5 percent and BCR employees 8 percent.

         These actions put roughly one-third of ownership in private hands. In addition, it also put in place
         a new governance structure­one that separated the Board and management­as well as a new risk
         evaluation and internal audit compliance functions. These actions were considered very important
         steps in improving the governance of the bank, making it easier to be fully privatized with a
         strategic investor in the future. Privatization of the bank with a strategic investor is now being
         re-launched under the Bank-financed Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) program in a better
         international environment from the investor point of view.

    l CEC Bank - the Savings Bank. As part of its financial sector reform program, the Government
         took measures to restructure CEC Bank, the national savings bank, in preparation for



                                                       - 6 -

         privatization. This was one of the most difficult challenges in the sector given the weak
         infrastructure and poor condition of the bank. In accordance with PSAL II conditionality, the
         Government developed a comprehensive restructuring plan for the bank with the support of an
         international consultant. This included a work plan for applying the 2002­2005 CEC's strategy. In
         order to accelerate implementation of the operational work plan, the Government engaged a
         consulting service in a twinning arrangement with the bank. The technical assistance was aimed at
         supporting the management of five main departments within CEC (treasury, accounting, IT,
         network, cards) in the restructuring process. The PIBL financed contract was completed in June
         2004. In addition, the Government decided to proceed with privatization earlier than initially
         intended, thus exceeding the agreed benchmarks for CEC Bank.

         This restructuring has been a key element of preparing the CEC Bank for privatization. It has
         supported changes in the bank's management structure, product development, marketing strategies,
         human resources management and IT. The privatization process has now been launched with
         Cabinet approval in April 2004. The Government also has hired a privatization advisor and
         expects that the privatization transaction will be completed by end 2005.

Bank infrastructure support systems. As part of its reform program, the Government has taken important
steps to strengthen the country's financial sector infrastructure. In particular, the NBR implemented an
Electronic Payment System (EPS) including the Real Time Gross Settlement System (RTGSS), the
Automated Clearing House (ACH), and the Government Securities Registration and Settlement System
(GSRSS). During the implementation of the system, the NBR: (i) verified the on-going progress of the EPS
according to the timeline benchmarks and schedule negotiated with the provider; (ii) ascertained the
individual banks' readiness to participate in the LVPP, including computer back-up and a disaster recovery
plan; (iii) instituted a training program on the management and operations of the EPS; and (iv) verified and
monitored progress of the EPS in compliance with the timeline and benchmarks stipulated in the program.
These reforms are essential building blocks of a bank infrastructure support system that will serve the
financial sector's long term developmental needs.

Strengthening insurance sector supervision. In line with the loan conditionalities, the Government has
improved the supervision of the insurance sector. In particular, in July 2001 the Parliament appointed the
members of the Council of the Insurance Supervision Commission (ISC), and the Government hired an
advisor (funded by a Dutch grant) to assist in strengthening the institutional capacity of the ISC to
supervise and provide regulatory oversight of the insurance sector.

Capital and equity market development. The Government has pursued measures to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the National Securities Commission (CNVM) to supervise and provide regulatory
oversight of the capital and equity markets. In addition, it has developed a comprehensive strategic plan to
support this effort and has hired two consultants ­ a capital market development international advisor and a
local law firm to jointly work on (i) revising the capital market legal framework, and (ii) draft a CNVM
statute and assist CNVM in preparing a draft strategic plan. In addition, a set of new laws and regulations
governing the capital and equity markets, consistent with EU acquis and directives, have been adopted.

Privatization and Divestiture of Large State-owned Enterprises

The enterprise sector reform was geared toward strengthening the financial discipline of the state-owned
enterprise, cutting losses in the economy by liquidating loss-making state owned enterprises and privatizing
most of the state-owned enterprises. With the support of PSAL II, the Government succeeded in privatizing
some of its largest and complex state-owned enterprises, which has been instrumental in helping to reduce


                                                      - 7 -

fiscal losses and lay the groundwork for a more competitive economy. For second tranche release, the loan
included core conditions related to (i) pool privatization and workouts, and (ii) large scale SOE
privatization, as well as a set of non-core conditions.

Pool privatizations and workouts. The Government successfully completed the privatization, workouts,
restructuring, liquidation of SOEs carried forward from PSAL I. Core conditions for first tranche release
related to selection and issuance of Requests for Proposals (RFPs) for selection of privatization/workouts
advisors for: 10 SOEs grouped in three pools for privatization and 10 SOEs grouped in four pools for
workout. For second tranche release, the loan required the Government to offer eight of the 10 companies
for sale and work out eight of the 10 companies in the workout pool. The Government fully fulfilled the
conditionality. Out of these 20 SOEs, 16 SOEs were privatized and one is engaged in a process of selling
assets, and three SOEs are under a voluntary/ judicial liquidation.

Large-scale SOE privatization. The core condition for the second tranche release was the privatization of
two large SOEs in the aluminum industry, ALRO and ALPROM. These were included in the case-by-case
privatization category that began under PSAL I. ALRO was sold on April 30, 2002 to a consortium that
included Conef, Marco Acquisition and Marco International, and ALPROM was sold to the same
consortium on December 19, 2002.

Non-core conditions. The non-core conditions specifically included: (i) case-by-case privatizations and
workouts of large SOEs carried forward from PSAL I, privatization to be undertaken by APAPS and
restructuring of TAROM: (ii) new pools privatization and workouts; (iii) reform of the communications
sector to introduce competition and increase private sector participation; (iv) development and
implementation of a five-year plan to ensure loss reduction in the mining sector; (v) liberalization and
reform of the utilities sector by establishing the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for
competition and private participation in the utilities sector. Following are the main achievements:

l APAPS Privatizations and Liquidations. In total 54 SOEs were privatized; two SOEs are under
    privatization; for one enterprise a stake of shares was ceded to SIF Transilvania, a private investment
    fund; and four SOEs are under voluntary/judicial liquidation.

    In addition, APAPS sold 51 large enterprises, far surpassing the target of 10 SOEs; 215 small and
    medium enterprises with a majority state-owned stake compared with the target of 300 enterprises; and
    451 enterprises with state-owned residual shares compared with the target of 100 enterprises. The
    Government met or exceeded objectives for this component, despite delays in several cases resulting
    from the need to mitigate the social impact of certain privatizations, the lack of interest of investors (in
    certain SOEs of which privatization had to be re-launched three or four times), and non-compliance by
    investors with contractual obligations. The specific benefits for the Government from the privatizations
    included: (i) sale revenues amounting about EUR 985 million; (ii) the sale-purchase agreements
    provide the obligations of the investors for technological investments of about EUR 580 million, (iii)
    environmental investments of about EUR 170 million, and (iv) working capital of about EUR160
    million.

l TAROM. Due to a more severe restructuring plan implemented in 2003, TAROM reduced its losses to
    about USD 19 million as compared with USD 35 million in 2002. An appropriate medium-term
    restructuring plan reducing losses to zero by 2005 was submitted to the Bank.

l Mining sector reforms. In 2004 a new strategy for mining sector was developed covering all key
    aspects of this sector reform including institutional and regulatory reform; eliminating financial losses


                                                       - 8 -

     by restructuring production; closing non-viable mines and financial restructuring; improving
     environmental and safety performance; mitigating social impacts by social protection measures and by
     economic reconstruction of the mining regions.

l Utilities Sector Regulation. Significant progress was made in liberalization and reform of the utilities
     sector to increase the competition and private participation through decentralization and privatization.
     (This is described further in the energy sector reform section below.)

Energy Sector Reform

In the energy sector, the main focus of the Government's reform program was to reduce the arrears, thus
eliminating the use of the electricity and gas sectors as sources of quasi-fiscal loans and cross-subsidization
of inefficient and un-restructured SOEs. This target was achieved both by restructuring and privatizing
large SOEs, and through the use of a tight monitoring system for the collections in the sector. The energy
sector reform program proved to be highly ambitious ­ particularly with regard to the targets that were set
at the outset of the reform program.

Privatizations and restructuring. The government actions supported by the loan have helped transform
ownership and improve the financial performance of the energy sector. First tranche release conditions
focused on three areas: (i) restructuring of Electrica and Termoelectrica; (ii) actions related to privatization
of Petrom ­ the largest enterprise in the oil sector and for the two electricity distribution companies); and
(iii) improvement of collections in the gas and power sectors. The core conditions for the second tranche
release were related to (i) privatizations ­ completion of Petrom and the two electricity distribution
companies, and launching the privatizations of the two existing gas distribution companies (Distrigaz Nord
and Distrigaz Sud); and (ii) continuation of improving the collections. Main achievements include:

    l Electrica and Termoelectrica. The Government reorganized Electrica into eight entities and
         Termoelectrica into two business units. In 2003 the Government also approved a Road Map for the
         Energy Sector. In addition to the restructuring of Termoelectrica, this addresses the privatization of
         two of its four subsidiaries. The process was launched and is currently being supported by the PAL
         program. A similar restructuring and partial privatization also will be carried out for
         Hidroelectrica, the main hydropower generator.

    l Banat and Dobrogea. In accordance with the loan, the Government privatized Banat and
         Dobrogea ­ two electricity distribution companies. The contracts for both enterprises were signed
         ENEL (from Italy) on July 19, 2004. The Government also started the selling processes for another
         two electricity distribution companies, Moldova and Oltenia. At the beginning of April 2005, the
         privatization contracts were also signed with E.ON of Germany, for Moldova (electricity
         distribution company), and CEZ of the Czech Republic for Oltenia (electricity distribution
         company). The privatization of these two companies and the remaining four are supported under
         the PAL program.

    l Petrom. The GOR successfully privatized Petrom ­ the largest enterprise in the oil sector. The
         privatization advisor (consortium including Credit Suisse First Boston and ING Barings) finalized
         the privatization strategy, which was approved by a Governmental Decision. The sale
         announcement was published on August 26, 2003 and 15 expressions of interest were received.
         The winning bidder was announced on May 21, 2004 and the privatization contract was signed
         with OMV-Austria on July 23, 2004.




                                                      - 9 -

   l Distrigaz Nord and Distrigaz Sud. The Government successfully privatized Distrigaz Nord and
         Distrigaz Sud ­ the two existing gas distribution companies. Credit Suisse First Boston served as
         the privatization advisor for the transactions. The privatization strategy was completed and
         submitted to the Government for its approval on October 24, 2003. By January 23, 2004 the
         following companies submitted preliminary and unbinding offers and were qualified for the next
         stage:

         Distrigaz Nord: Wintershall - Germany, Gazprom - Russia, Gaz de France - France, E.ON/
         Ruhrgas-Germany and ENEL - Italy.
         Distrigaz Sud: Gazprom - Russia, Gaz de France - France, E.ON/ Ruhrgas-Germany and ENEL -
         Italy.

         The negotiations took place and the privatization contracts were signed on October 21, 2004, with
         E.ON/Ruhrgas ­ Germany for Distrigaz Nord, and with Gaz de France for Distrigaz Sud.

Collections and reducing arrears in the power, oil and gas sectors. One of the most critical and difficult
challenges for the Government was to improve its collections in the energy sector and reduce losses. Due to
difficulties the government previously faced with achieving targets in this area, collections and reducing
arrears in the power, oil and gas sectors were subject to a tight monthly monitoring under the loan. The
targets set were highly ambitious and supported at high levels of Government.

For the power sector, the core conditions required the Government to submit evidence that: (i) the
cumulative monthly rate of collection for payments to Electrica has reached at 97.5 percent of the total
billings for the period commencing from January 1, 2002; (ii) the monthly rate of collection for payments
to Termoelectrica has reached 100 percent of the total electricity billings for each month commencing from
October 1, 2001; and (iii) the cumulative monthly rate of collection for payments to Termoelectrica for
district heating supplies reached at least 97.5 percent of the total billings for the period commencing from
January 1, 2002. The primary performance measure was a 12-month rolling average to smoothen the
impact of seasonal variations.

The achievements at end-April 2004 on 12- month rolling average basis were:
         Electrica - 99.0 percent
         Termoelectrica for electricity - 97.0 percent
         Termoelectrica for district heat - 95.3 percent

   l Electrica collections collections from electricity consumers. During the 12 months of 2003
         Electrica achieved 98.0 percent collection level, meeting the agreed 97.5 percent target. From May
         2003 until April 2004, the collection rate was slightly higher at 99.0 percent. While these are
         highly satisfactory collection rates, challenges remained in collections from some SOEs and
         government agencies. The Government acknowledged that it was ultimately responsible for these
         nonpayment, and in May 2004 approved an ordinance under which it undertook to make payments
         from the state budget in cases where utilities are obliged to continue to supply defaulting
         state-owned enterprises and other government agencies. Bill collection from non-government
         consumers was satisfactory and remained the responsibility of the utilities without budgetary
         back-stopping. During the gas and electricity distribution privatization processes, agreements were
         negotiated with the investors under which such arrears were replaced by long-term government
         bonds. These arrangements reflected the Government's acknowledgement that it is responsible for
         these arrears.



                                                      - 10 -

   l Termoelectrica's collections - for bulk electricity supply. The agreed target of 100 percent
        collection proved to be optimistic. Termoelectrica's collections at 97 percent closely reflect those of
        Electrica's. Termoelectrica collected 93.1 percent of its bill from Electrica and another 4 percent
        through a system of offsets. Instead of the Government paying Electrica for governmental
        electricity consumption, Electrica paying Termoelectrica, and Termoelectrica paying taxes, the
        Government and Termoelectrica offset these liabilities (i.e., government payments for electricity
        consumption and Termoelectrica's tax payments to the Government were offset). In view of
        Electrica's collection accomplishments and Termoelectrica's achievement of collections at 97
        percent, the condition was considered substantially met.

   l Termoelectrica's collections - for bulk heat supply. The agreed target of 97.5 percent collections
        proved to be optimistic given the poor financial and operational condition of most of the
        Termoelectrica's bulk heat clients--district heating utilities selling heat to final consumers, mostly
        households. However, Termoelectrica was able to improve its collections substantially to 95.3
        percent through a combination of measures: (i) intensified pressure on the clients, and (ii) by
        transferring a number of its smaller district heating facilities to the local authorities which are then
        also directly in charge of their heat production, in addition its distribution.

For the gas sector reforms the core conditions required the Government to submit evidence that the
cumulative year to date rate of collection for payments to Distrigaz Sud and Distrigaz Nord reached 97.5
percent of the total billings and that the accounts payable to the gas producers and gas transmission
companies, resulting from gas delivery will be paid within sixty days, commencing on January 1, 2002.

The achievement by end-April 2004 was a cumulative year-to-date rate of collection for payments to
Distrigaz Sud and Distrigaz Nord of about 105 percent of the total billings, exceding the target of 97.5
percent. To eliminate seasonal variations, collection performance was also assessed on a 12-month rolling
basis. The collection rate on a 12-month rolling basis (May 2003 - April 2004) was about 100 percent of
12-month billings. The company-by-company breakdown of year-to-date (and 12-month) collection rates
as of end-April 2004 was:
                 Distrigaz Sud - 104.8 percent (12-month rate 101.9 percent)
                 Distrigaz Nord - 105.4 percent (12-month rate 98.1 percent)

 The accounts payable to the gas producers and gas transmission companies, resulting from gas delivery,
 was paid within 55 days of sales, commencing on January 1, 2002, which was a better performance than
 the goal of 60 days.



Business Environment

In the area of business environment, the Government pursued a number of reforms that were designed to
improve business entry, operation and exit. Although the reforms in this area were not considered core
conditions for second tranche release, their achievement has substantially strengthened the legal
environment for business and helped to reduce administrative barriers that firms face. Following are some
of the Government's main achievements in this area:

   l Administrative Barriers. The Government took steps to implement its plan to improve the business
        environment in Romania. To this end, it completed 67 out of the 71 actions outlined under the
        Government's the Action Plan for the Removal of Administrative Barriers. As a result, several key
        pieces of legislation have been enacted: the Sunshine Law (Transparency Law), Silent Approval


                                                     - 11 -

       Law, Fiscal Code, and Fiscal Procedure Code. Other important draft laws are at various stages of
       the approval process including the Bankruptcy Law and Corporate Governance Principles Law.
       The new agency dealing with foreign investors (ARIS) is currently fully functioning.

   l Tax and fiscal reform. In order to improve the tax and fiscal regime, the Government amended the
       Fiscal Code and the Fiscal Procedure Code to unify the previously scattered regulations and
       incentives under a single and clear piece of legislation, in line with the EU and OECD practices.

   l Auditing and accounting. Strengthened audit and accounting standards and procedures are
       essential for the production and disclosure of accurate financial information for internal and public
       purposes. In line with PSAL II, the Government required that a set of companies begin to
       implement the Government's updated system of regulations and be audited according to
       international standards. The Accounting and Auditing Review of the Report on the Observance of
       Standards and Codes, published in September 2003, confirmed the progress made by the
       government during its transition from compliance with national standards to compliance with
       International Accounting Standards (IAS), International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and the
       Directives. However, while the report stressed major improvements in the legal and regulatory
       framework, it highlighted deficiencies in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements and
       enforcement mechanisms and recommended that the Government continue to focus on
       implementation.

   l Bankruptcy. The Government has taken and is currently pursuing a number of important actions to
       modernize its insolvency system. Specific actions include: (i) with regard to commercial
       insolvency, the Government amended the Law on Judicial Reorganization and Bankruptcy to
       address a number of shortcomings in the insolvency procedures; (ii) the Government developed a
       draft new law to introduce a "preventive concordat" procedure with the aim of streamlining the
       restructuring of viable enterprises; (iii) the Ministry of Public Finance prepared an amendment to
       the Law on Judicial Reorganization and Bankruptcy of Credit Institutions to bring the existing
       provisions in line with EU Directive 24/2001; and (iv) the National Union of Reorganization and
       Liquidation Practitioners has begun organizing seminars and training programs for insolvency
       practitioners.

E. Social Protection

The inclusion of specific measures to mitigate the social costs of the enterprise sector reforms were
considered a key element of the loan. Thus, the loan included several core conditions in this area.
Government efforts were essential to strengthening the social safety net for the long term unemployed,
ensuring adequate income support to laid off workers, and reforming the pensions system. The Government
met these conditions. The main achievements include:

   l The Government allocated sufficient resources in its budget to finance the targeted Minimum
        Income Guarantee (MIG) program and has maintained a sufficient level thereafter.
   l The Government enacted legislation regarding unemployment insurance and employment
        incentives, promoting a system of measures stimulating employment and ensuring the financial
        viability of the unemployment insurance budget. In particular, it approved procedures regarding
        access to employment incentives, financing means and instructions for their implementation.
        Through new legislation (Law 76/2002), the unique level of unemployment indemnity was
        established for unemployed persons at 75 percent of the country's gross minimum wage and at 50
        percent in the case of graduates unable to secure employment. Thus, discrepancies in the system of


                                                      - 12 -

         establishing the unemployment indemnity were eliminated, and the indemnities were correlated with
         the level of the minimum wage.
   l Through Law 333/2002, the Parliament approved amendments to Law 19/2002 on the continuation
         of the reform and consolidation of the public pension pillar, establishing transparent and financially
         viable indexation rules.




4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of PSAL II was substantial. In combination with the package of TA
that accompanied the loan, PSAL II has helped to strengthen a number of agencies and institutions that
play a major role in the financial, enterprise and infrastructure sectors. Specifically, this package of
support included the Bank-financed PIBL and PPIBL, as well the Irish and Canadian Consultant Trust
Funds that were accessed for the duration of the project. (See section 5.4 for more details.)

This package of support significantly helped strengthen APAPS (the privatization agency), the CNVM (the
securities market regulator), and the Asset Resolution Agency which was established to deal with
non-performing bank assets. It also helped supported the Romanian Agency for Foreign Investment, which
was created to offer a one-stop-shop to foreign investors. In addition, the regulators for the Agency for
Electricity and Heat (ANRE) and the Agency for Oil and Gas (ANRGN) received support and technical
assistance in connection with the reforms in the energy sector.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Poor market conditions including a lack of investor interest. The poor international market conditions that
prevailed in 2003 had a negative affect on the pace of privatization of both banks as well as enterprises. In
several cases, the APAPS had to offer the enterprises for sale more than once, or such as in the case of
BCR, the Government had to develop alternative solutions when it failed to attract a strategic investor.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment. A high degree of Government commitment was a key factor in the success of the
program. PSAL II was highly ambitious program ­ and much more far reaching than the first PSAL, in
that it included many difficult energy and business environment reforms in addition to the financial and
enterprise sector reforms. The scope of the program thus required top level Government commitment as
well as strong coordination of the various ministries to be successful.

Government support of a broad economic reform program. The Government's efforts to pursue a broad
reform program that included economic, institutional and governance reforms in preparation for EU



                                                     - 13 -

accession created positive conditions for implementing the reform program outlined under PSAL II. By
pursuing broad economic reforms, the Government managed to achieve GDP growth of 4.9 percent in
2003, led primarily by investment and exports. Good macroeconomic performance contributed to reaching
a record level of official reserves of over US$7 billion in 2003 ­ an impressive increase of US$3.5 billion
since 2000. The Government also worked closely with the IMF to develop an adjustment program that
aimed to maintain macroeconomic stability, reduce inflation, and support continued divestiture of
state-owned enterprises.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Performance of the PMU. Although there was no Project Management Unit for PSAL II, the solid
performance of the staff of the PMU for the accompanying PIBL and PPIBL projects contributed to the
Government's overall success in implementing its reform program. The staff of the PMU were well trained
in procurement through their experience under PSAL I, and were familiar with Bank procedures as well as
the overarching goals of the Government's reform program. This enabled them to work effectively with the
relevant ministries to develop specific terms of reference for technical assistance in all the various sectors
covered under the loan.


5.4 Costs and financing:

PSAL II was a two tranche operation of EUR 339.8 million (US$300 million equivalent). The first tranche
was disbursed upon loan effectiveness and the second tranche was floating, to be disbursed based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved by the Government in the carrying out of
the Program; (b) the macroeconomic policy framework is satisfactory; and (c) that the core actions related
to the financial sector, energy sector, privatization and social protection have been taken.

The disbursement of the second tranche was originally planned to take place by end-2003, however, was
actually disbursed on July 7, 2004. Despite the good progress in achieving the results agreed in the PSAL
II program, by end 2003 there were still questions related to the macroeconomic environment, more
specifically regarding the deficit target for 2004. Reflecting its concern about the size of quasi-fiscal
deficits, the IMF insisted that all investment spending, including the large planned road projects be kept on
budget regardless of the financing mechanism. After the Spring Meetings, when agreement between the
Government and the IMF was reached on the new Stand-by agreement, the Bank was more confident that
the macroeconomic situation and policy framework in Romania is satisfactory. The disbursement was still
within the agreed timeframe of the project and the project closed on its original closing date on December
31, 2004.

The project also benefitted from a set of trust funds and additional Bank financing which enabled the
government to access top level international expertise and technical assistance. This included the PIBL of
US$25 million, the PPIBL of US$18.51 million, a Japanese PHRD grant of US$397,800 for project
preparation, as well as Irish and Canadian Consultant Trust Funds (for FY03-FY05). This package of
support enabled the Bank to provide a high level of support throughout project preparation and supervision.
It also helped the Bank ensure that the Government received policy advice and technical assistance based
on international best practices, particularly related to privatizations in the banking, enterprise and energy
sectors.




                                                      - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated highly likely. The reforms ­ particularly the privatizations and
liquidations in the financial and enterprise sector ­ are not reversible since the assets have been sold to
private investors, thus permanently reducing the fiscal demands on the Government budget. In the energy
sector, the Government has achieved many improvements in the financial performance of the key
state-owned enterprises and has also taken important steps to reduce government arrears.

The reforms in the other sectors including energy, business environment and social protection as well are
considered likely to be sustainable given the Government's demonstrated commitment to structural reform
in the sector particularly under the PAL program (see description in 6.2 below), but also in other sectoral
projects as the Partial Risk Guarantee for the Privatization of Banat and Dobrogea electricity distribution
companies. The legislative changes to reduce administrative barriers, improve the framework for insolvency
and creditors' rights, strengthen auditing and accounting are all long term development changes, but the
Government has clearly shown its interest in harmonizing its legal framework with EU directives.

The intensive collaboration with the IMF in designing the structural agenda supported by the sixth stand-by
agreement and the reinforcing conditionality in the content of the PAL program provided a good framework
for ensuring the sustainability of the overall reform process.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

PSAL II was the fourth in the series of adjustment operations supported by the World Bank in Romania's
enterprise and financial sectors, after the Structural Adjustment Operation (SAL), the Financial and
Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) and the Private Structural Adjustment Operation (PSAL I).
The reform agenda supported by adjustment lending was typically comprehensive and covered most of the
important issues, although there were shifts in emphasis and approaches over time. The importance of
macro-economic stability and its links with structural reforms in state owned enterprises and banks was
recognized early on. All the loans focused on privatization and restructuring of state-owned enterprises, and
reforms to tighten financial discipline. Liberalization of prices and trade and exchange rates was part of
the agenda of the SAL (1992) and FESAL (1994), but they were no longer an issue for later operations.
Reforms of the financial sector was an important component of FESAL in the mid - 1990s, and became a
central focus in PSAL I in 1999 and PSAL II to rid the source of the financial crisis at that time. Energy
prices reforms were supported in all operations, but comprehensive energy sector reforms took center stage
only in PSAL II in 2002.

The PSAL II built on the largely satisfactory achievement of the outcomes envisaged under PSAL I reform
program. The restructuring /privatization process of banks and enterprises was continued, with special
focus on reforms in the energy sector which remained a major source of subsidization of state owned
enterprises. The loan also supported the implementation of an action plan to remove administrative
barriers to private business, drawn up on the basis of recommendations of a FIAS study under PSAL I.

The reform program outlined under the PSAL II directly supported and fed into the Government's broader
development agenda aimed at laying the foundation for EU accession and was driven by the accession
time-table. Thus, no transition to regular operations was necessary, as the Government line ministries and
related agencies which implemented PSAL II are also spearheading Romania's broader reform program.




                                                      - 15 -

The PAL Program. Bank support for Romania's structural adjustment has been picked up under the PAL
program, which is a series of three loans designed to support the Government's reform program through
2007 with the objective of establishing solid economic growth, reducing poverty and joining the European
Union. The PAL provides continuity in Bank assistance by ensuring sustained progress on the structural
reforms begun under PSAL I and II, while at the same time introducing a new program of phased public
sector and regulatory reforms that emphasizes institutional development and effective implementation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance in project identification and preparation is rated satisfactory. The reforms supported
under PSAL II were the centerpiece of the Government's privatization strategy and represented a direct
continuation of the program that began under PSAL I. The reform program was exceptionally well
developed and specific in nature, due in part to the Bank's experience with and relationship with
Government counterparts.

The strategic relevance of the operation was clear. The reforms were designed to deepen and strengthen the
financial sector, reduce the government's fiscal liabilities to state-owned enterprises, and improve the
business environment.

The Bank drew on a broad mix of technical staff to prepare the project, including privatization experts with
a high degree of experience in other Eastern European countries, senior financial sector specialists, private
sector development specialists, and operational staff. It also mixed headquarters staff with field staff who
continually monitored implementation as well as provided technical assistance and guidance to the
government in carrying out the program.

Client engagement in identifying the reforms was excellent. The team worked closely with the key
counterparts from the Ministry of Public Finance and other line ministries to identify their specific goals
and objectives in the short and medium term. Further the reforms fit in clearly with the CAS in that they
were designed to stimulate private-sector led growth in Romania and also help pave the way for EU
accession by reducing fiscal liabilities and helping to create a sound, stable financial sector.


7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Supervision combined both field based and
headquarters staff. The Bank team also drew heavily on the expertise of several senior financial specialists
and privatization consultants to monitor the Government's progress with implementing the core
conditionalities. Supervision missions were regular and well-targeted, complementing the ongoing
monitoring of field staff. Often the missions were used as an opportunity to continue to apply pressure on
the Government continue with its reform program.

The Bank also maintained continuity of its staff, which contributed to the project's overall success. Not
only were staff the same that had worked on preparation, but they had worked closely on the PSAL I as
well. It also engaged senior banking and privatization consultants to serve as advisors to Bank team and
provide high level technical support. The Bank team not only developed close working relationships with
Government counterparts, but also knew very well the financial conditions and technical aspects of many of
the larger banks and enterprises that were to be privatized with support of the PSAL II and PIBL. As a


                                                     - 16 -

result, they were able to make important contributions to help the Government develop effective
restructuring and privatization strategies.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Bank performance is rated as overall as satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower performance in project identification and preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government
demonstrated a high level of commitment to its overall reform program. This was shown by its preparation
of PSAL II on the heels of the first PSAL program, helping to sustain the momentum of the reform process.
The Ministry of Public Finance worked very closely with the Bank team to identify the next generation
reforms that would have the most significant impact.

The Government also displayed good cooperation with the Bank team during preparation. Specifically, key
counterparts from the Ministry of Finance, APAPS, and the National Bank of Romania worked very
closely with the Bank team to identify priorities in each sector as well as clarify specific conditionalities to
be supported. This cooperation helped ensure that the reforms identified were both timely and effective,
feeding into the Government's overarching goals and helping the country make its transition to a market
economy.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The close collaboration demonstrated by
the Borrower with the Bank during implementation was a primary factor in the overall success of the PSAL
II. Another important factor leading to the successful implementation of this project was the willingness of
the Government to utilize loan funds to procure technical expertise lacking in-country through the PIBL
project.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

Implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory. There was no single implementing agency for the
project, given that it was an adjustment loan. However, implementation of the conditionalities required the
active support of a number of institutions. In particular, the staff from Ministry of Public Finance, the
Ministry of Economy and Trade, and APAPS demonstrated an exceptional level of efficiency and
commitment to the program. The PMU of the PIBL also demonstrated solid administrative capacity for
procurement and monitoring the TA support for this very complex project.




7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.



                                                     - 17 -

8. Lessons Learned


Following are some of the major lessons learned.

Adjustment lending is successful when Government commitment is strong. PSAL II reform agenda
deepened and broadened the financial and enterprise sector reforms undertaken by the Government and
supported by PSAL I since 1999. Despite the slower than envisaged implementation of the PSAL II, the
Government commitment to advance the reforms, especially in more difficult areas as the energy and
mining sectors, remained strong all through.

The synergy between the IMF and WB in supporting the structural agenda is key for ensuring the
sustainibility of the reforms.The intensive collaboration between the Bank and the IMF during the design
and the implementation of the structural agenda supported by PSAL II and the fifth and sixth IMF stand by
agreements, as well as the reinforcement of the conditionalities in the context of the PAL I program
provided a good framework for ensuring the sustainibility of the overall reform process.

Clear regional integration goals, such as EU accession, provide strong incentive for reform. The
approval by the EU Council of Ministers in December 1999 of starting accession negotiations with
Romania marked a new pace of reforms in Romania. The committments made by the Government during
the negotiations and reflected in the accession chapters, as well as the Romania's goal to join EU by 2007
contributed significantly to an increased awareness and committment of all stakeholders in Romania on the
needed reforms, as well as of their sense of urgency. In its October 2004 Report on Romania, as a
consequence of the good progress in implementing the reform agenda, largelly supported by the PSAL II,
the EU Commission recognized Romania as a "functioning market economy". This status paved the way to
conclude the negotiations by end 2004 and to sign the accession treaty by April 2005.

Importance of adequate and timely technical assistance. A key factor in the success of the PSAL II was
the availability of substantial technical assistance to carry out the reforms and privatizations. PSAL II
envisioned restructuring and privatization of some of the largest, most complex banks and enterprises in the
country, such as BCR, TAROM, ALRO and ALPROM. In order to carry out these and other transactions,
the Government needed easily accessible funds to finance top level international privatization advisors and
other technical experts. The fact that the Government was willing to borrow for such support appears to
have made a big difference in the end result ­ allowing the Government to move much more quickly in
implementation.

Need for flexibility to adjust strategies based on market conditions. PSAL II contained a number of
conditionalities related to privatization of large state-owned banks and enterprises. At the time of project
implementation, however, market conditions deteriorated and the Government found it difficult to find
strategic investors in some cases. However, the Bank was able to work closely with the Government in
order to maintain the momentum and also help identify acceptable alternative solutions to full privatization,
as in the case of BCR.

Importance of specific, easily monitored conditionalities. Despite the broade scope of the project, the loan
included a detailed policy matrix that was easily monitored. This specificity contributed to the success of
implementation, as it set clear goals for the Government. This approach was also in contrast to some
previous adjustment loans in Romania (ie. FESAL) which included much more general conditionalities.



                                                       - 18 -

Importance of a strong field presence of Bank staff to assist the Government in a highly complex reform
program. PSAL II benefitted from a strong field presence of Bank staff. This was combined with periodic
missions involving teams of technical experts. The constant field presence proved to be an essential element
of success given the depth and complexity of such an ambitious reform program.



9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

This ICR was prepared with the contribution of the PSAL II project coordinator in the Ministry of Public
Finance.

The Ministry of Public Finance provided data for the report and worked closely with the Bank team to
assess the outcome of the project and draw the main lessons.

Written comments on the draft were provided to the Bank team on June 9, 2005 and have been largely
incorporated into the text.


(b) Cofinanciers:



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




10. Additional Information




                                                   - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




Output Indicators:
                                                        1
           Indicator/Matrix         Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                          - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.00             0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   0.00             0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
                                                - 21 -

      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/22/2001                5    SENIOR FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEAD OIL
                                             AND GAS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); CONSULTANTS
                                             (2)
              11/27/2001                2    LEAD OIL AND GAS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/17/2001                4    PROGRAM TEAM
                                             LEADER (1); COUNTRY
                                             MANAGER (1); SENIOR
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER
              03/11/2002                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             LEAD OIL AND GAS
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SENIOR
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); LEAD
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              01/17/2003                1    TASK TEAM LEADER                 S               S
              03/03/2003                6    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIAL (1); ENERGY
                                             SECTOR (3); PRIVATIZATION
                                             (1)
              09/28/2003                5    MISSION LEADER (1); PSD          S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (2); FSD
                                             SPECIALIST (2)
              01/24/2004                6    SECTOR MANAGER (1); (SR.         S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             LEAD FINANCIAL SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (1), FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR ADVISOR (1),
                                             PRIVATIZATION ADVISOR
                                             (1), PRIVATE SECTOR DEV.
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR



                                              - 24 -

               Prepared from the
               field


Please note that field based staff carried out ongoing monitoring and supervision of loan conditionalities.
Such supervision is not reflected in the above table

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                  1,470
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                                   326
  ICR                                                                            30
  Total                                                                       1,826


Note: The figure of US$1,470,000 includes Appraisal/Negotiation as well as Identification/Preparation.




                                                     - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


PSAL II Memorandum of the President
PSAL II Board Release Memo
Project Status Reports
Mission TORs
Aide memoires (PSAL II and PIBL)




                                       - 28 -

- 29 -

