Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15489
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3132-MAS)
MARCH 19, 1996
Infrastructure Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Mauritian Rupee (MuR)
(as of July 1995)
US$1 = MuR 17.50
MuR1.00 = US$0.057
(at the time of appraisal)
US$1.00 = MuR 15.00
MuR1.00 = US$0.066
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)    =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 Sq. kilometer (kM2)    0.386 sq. miles (sq. mi)
1 hectare (ha)     =     2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton) =   2,205 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
AADT  -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
ERR    -  Economic Rate of Return
GOM    -  Government of Mauritius
FHP    -  First Highway Project
ICR     -  Implementation Completion Report
JICA    -  Japan International Cooperation Agency
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
MOW   -  Ministry of Works
PSIP   -  Public Sector Investment Program
RSMP  -  Road Sector Master Plan
SAR    -  Staff Appraisal Report
SEMES -  Singapore Environmental Management & Engineering Services
SHP    -  Second Highway Project
STC    -  State Trading Corporation
TA      -  Technical Assistance
TMU   -  Traffic Management Unit
VOC    -  Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD    -  Vehicles per Day
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3132-MAS)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                            ii
PART I: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD PERSPECTIVE
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives             .1
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives.                                      4
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project.                                    8
D. Project Sustainability                          .9
E. Bank Performance .                                                       10
F. Borrower Performance .                                                     1
G. Assessment of Outcome.                                                   1 1
H. Future Operation .12
I. Key Lessons Learned .                                                    12
PART II: SUPPORTING ANNEX AND STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3.  Project Timetable.                                                15
Table 4.      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6.   Studies Included in Project .18
Table 7A. Project Costs .18
Table 7B.  Project Financing .19
Table 8.   Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 9.  Status of Legal Covenants .                                       20
Table 10.  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .                                   22
Table 11.  Bank Resources: Missions .23
APPENDICES:
Borrower Contribution to the ICR ........................                   24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MAURllIUS
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3132-MAS)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Highway Project
(SHP) in Mauritius, for which Loan 3132-MAS in the amount of US$30.0 million equivalent
was approved on November 7, 1989, and made effective on June 8, 1990.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995, compared with the original closing date of June
30, 1994. Final disbursement took place on October 27, 1995, at which time a balance of
US$21,478.68 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Subhash Seth, Consultant, TWUTD, and Alain Labeau, Task
Manager, AF3IN, and reviewed by Ms. M. Plessis-Fraissard, Division Chief, AF3IN and Mr.
P. Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser, AF3DR.
Preparation of the ICR started during the Bank's final supervision mission in May
1995, and an implementation completion mission in July 1995. It is based on information in
the project files and data provided by the Government of Mauritius. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of this ICR and contributed its own evaluation of the project's execution,
which is included as appendix A to the ICR.






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank's involvement in the transport sector of Mauritius began in 1974, with the
financing of the extension and modernization of the port at Port Louis. The Second Highway
Project (SHP) was second in a series of projects aimed at assisting the Government of
Mauritius (GOM) in integrating the development of the transport system into macroeconomic
policies, and encouraging more efficient utilization of the existing transport infrastructure.
The First Highway Project (FHP) focused on: protecting capital investment on selected main
roads; strengthening institutional capacity of the Ministry of Works (MOW); and enforcing
vehicle weight and traffic safety regulations. The SHP further consolidated the efforts initiated
in FHP, and provided continued support in: (a) strengthening and upgrading of heavily
circulated, weak road sections; (b) capacity-building of MOW in road maintenance; (c) traffic
management, and (d) enforcing road safety and vehicle emission control regulations.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The objectives of the SHP, as stated in the October 1989 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
were to:
(i)   protect capital investment on roads by strengthening and improving the service
life of important road sections with high traffic volume;
(ii)  strengthen MOW's capacity for road maintenance planning and operations,
including traffic management; and
(iii) establish effective vehicle safety and emission control procedures.
3.    To achieve these objectives, the project supported the priority items of Highway
Program FY1990-93 (para 4) and comprised the following components: (a) strengthening and
improvement of about 46 km of main roads; (b) resurfacing (periodic maintenance) of about
130 kIn; (c) routine maintenance of about 840 km of main roads, and 27 km of motorways; (d)
improvement of a circulation system and traffic management; (e) vehicle safety and emission
control standards through the provision of testing equipment; and (f) consulting services and
training.
4.    All the objectives were important to the country and relevant to the transport sector.
The project objectives were consistent with GOM policy and Bank strategy in assisting the
country. In Mauritius, roads were originally constructed as agricultural tracks without proper
engineering design and their weak structure and poor geometry was not compatible with the
increasingly heavy and high volume of traffic. Given sustained traffic growth and a significant
increase in the number of road accidents (4,447 in 1983 to 9,085 in 1989), the country needed
to: (a) strengthen and upgrade weak sections of important roads; (b) improve the traffic
circulation system; and (c) enforce standard procedures for emission control. The time frame
provided by the project was too tight, and therefore over-optimistic.



Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was successful in achieving its principal objectives.  The objective of
protecting capital investment in main roads was substantially achieved on completion of all
agreed civil works, which included 43 km of the strengthening and upgrading of heavily
circulated road sections, 130 km of resurfacing (periodic maintenance) of main roads, 880 km
of routine maintenance of paved roads. Also, the objectives of strengthening MOW's capacity
in the planning and operation of road maintenance was substantially achieved. In order to
achieve the objectives related to traffic management, or to review and revise GOM legislation
for effective vehicle safety and emission control, the project's special objectives relating to
traffic management, road safety, and vehicle emission control were only partially achieved.
However, the project has provided a strong foundation in these areas, and has also gained the
Borrower's commitment to their achievement in the near future.
6.    The strengthening and improvement works carried out on selected main roads were
extensive with respect to the structural and geometric design of road pavements. Considering
the weakness of the existing road structure due to poor sub-grade, more emphasis was placed
on designing the correct thickness of additional layers structurally sound and to improving road
profile in accordance with acceptable geometric standards. Road upgrading works included,
inter alia: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of cross drainage works; (b) major changes to
improve horizontal and vertical alignments (about 35% length was realigned); (c) providing
street lighting; (d) replacement of old water pipes laid previously under the pavement, with
new pipes laid at appropriate locations; (e) improvement of junctions; (f) construction of new
bus lay-bys; and (g) construction of crawler lanes for heavy traffic, which move slowly on
steep slopes. All these upgrading works helped improve road safety, ease traffic congestion
and good riding quality on improved road pavements.
7.    Given that in mid-1989, at the time of project appraisal, GOM  reorganized the
maintenance section of MOW, a component was added to strengthen the maintenance section.
Accordingly, the project provided 54 man-months of technical assistance (TA). During project
implementation, GOM initiated various institutional reforms aimed at improving road
maintenance (para 15), inter alia, creation of a Road Fund, increased budget allocation for
road maintenance, and training of supervisory staff. As a result, the efficiency of maintenance
operations was significantly improved: the Borrower decided, and the Bank agreed, not to use
technical assistance (TA) funds earmarked for road maintenance experts. The savings thus
created under the TA component was very helpful in the completion of an agreed surfacing
program of 130 kIn, for which the scope of work was substantially changed because of major
repairs needed before carrying out resurfacing works. As most of the roads were of weak
structure, resurfacing was found to be impractical without strengthening the base course.
Accordingly, MOW completed heavy patch work and improved profiles, before resurfacing
roads. Furthermore, the project included training of supervisory staff, and on successful
completion of the agreed training program (para 18), MOW benefited from an increased
number of trained staff available in both units of Road Maintenance and Traffic Management.



iv
8.    The project's special objectives relating to traffic management and vehicle emission
control were only partially achieved, as MOW did not have enough in-house expertise, and
relied heavily on the external assistance. The project provided TA (6 person-months) for a
traffic management expert to assist MOW in the preparation of the action plan, proposals for a
traffic circulation system, and the upgrading of road intersections. The Borrower recruited an
international consultant for 3 person-months: the consultant's report was useful in providing a
general overview of all the key issues relating to urban transport, the traffic master plan, and
road safety in Mauritius. However, it did not help much in achieving all the agreed targets of
preparing an action program, a traffic circulation system, or in the improvement of road
intersections. In fact, the consultant overestimated the capability of the Traffic Management
Unit (TMU) and failed to provide any practical assistance in the planning and implementation
of traffic management related works (para 7). However, in consultation with the Bank, MOW
launched several remedial actions, including bus lay-bys, paid parking and crawler lanes, in
order to ease traffic congestion on steep slopes, all of which were found very useful and
feasible.
9.    The project also provided 15 person-months of TA to assist in monitoring the pollutants
and the setting up of standards for vehicle emission control. The Borrower recruited an
environmental expert for one person-month to review existing Road and Traffic Regulations
and who made recommendations for incorporation into the existing regulations, which are now
awaiting GOM approval. Paragraph 21 of this ICR provides a synopsis of consultants' main
findings and recommendations, which are, inter alia: (a) the amount of gasoline fuel has
increased by about 51 % over the last five years (1987-91), while diesel fuel increased by only
3.9%; (b) it would be unlawful to distribute any gasoline that has a sulfur content greater than
0.1 %, lead content greater than 0.2 grams per liter, and a benzene content greater than 5%.
The Borrower received regulations from other countries but these documents did not provide
much information regarding practical enforcement. Therefore, the Bank suggested, and MOW
agreed, to establish a twinning arrangement with the Ministry of Public Works of Singapore
and it is expected that the ongoing study carried out by Singapore Environmental Management
and Engineering Services (SEMES) is likely to prove helpful in establishing the standards and
procedures for vehicle emission control.
10.   The SHP was appraised in May 1989 and the loan was declared effective on June 8,
1990. Initially, progress was very slow: civil works began in April 1992, two years behind
appraisal schedule. It appears that much time was spent on the procurement of civil works,
which could have been easily avoided if the Bank and the Borrower had worked more closely
together in finalizing procurement procedures. Although Bank guidelines were followed in
general, Bank advise did not prove very helpful in expediting award of works contracts. In
mid-1992, progress gained momentum and all civil works were completed in April 1994, only
four months behind appraisal schedule. The scheduled loan closing date of June 30, 1994, was
extended to June 30, 1995, as the Borrower needed more time to examine complex issues on
traffic management and vehicle emission control. The final unit cost for strengthening and
improvement works is US$707,175/km, compared with US$550,000/km (para. 26), 28%
more than the appraisal estimate. As bid prices were already 25% higher than the appraisal



v
estimates, it indicates that the cost of works was underestimated at appraisal stage. It is worth
mentioning that MOW did not have any system for monitoring unit rates based on the annual
increase in labor, material and equipment costs. Despite cost changes in some components of
the project, there was no overrun under Bank financing because: (a) there were savings in the
component of TA; and (b) some works agreed under Bank financing were completed under
local funding (para. 12 and 14).
11.   Bank performance was satisfactory in the identification and preparation phases.
However, during appraisal, more attention should have been paid to the evaluating resurfacing
works in nature and volume, estimating costs, assessing institutional capacity of the Borrower
in road maintenance, and clearly defining the role of TA. Sufficient skill mix was not
included in the appraisal mission to prepare action plans for special components of traffic
management, road safety and the transport-related air pollution. All loan covenants were
appropriately enforced and the performance rating in the supervision reports were appropriate.
Bank performance in supervision was professional and highly satisfactory, both in quantity and
quality.
12.   The Borrower's performance in reviewing of the Highway Program FY1990-93 (para.
33) and in the selection of project components, was satisfactory with respect to technical and
economic aspects. Despite an initial delay of about two years, the Borrower managed to
complete all civil works well ahead of the loan's extended closing date. The quality of all
completed civil works is more than satisfactory. However, for the traffic management and
vehicle emission control component, the Borrower took more time than expected in the
preparation of the action plans.
13.   The project outcome was satisfactory because its major objectives were substantially
achieved. The benefits derived from the road upgrading and strengthening component will be
more than expected; therefore, the project is likely to be sustainable.  Based on final
construction costs, the investment made on road improvement projects produces an ERR
ranging from 21% to 46%, compared with 21 % to 30% at appraisal.
Key Lessons Learned
14.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)   The next resurfacing prograii for periodic maintenance would benefit from the setting
up of a Pavement Management System, which monitors and updates all relevant data
on condition surveys, pavement strength, rainfall intensity and classified traffic counts.
(b)   To achieve all physical targets within allocated funding, and to ensure good financial
control during the implementation of the project, unit rates used in the project cost
estimates for various road activities play an important role. It is essential for a Road
Agency to have a system for updating unit rates annually, based on the fluctuation of
market prices for labor, equipment and materials.



vi
(c)    Long-term, the Road Sector Master Plan (RSMP) should provide a sound basis for
lending program of future investments and strategy of road development in the
transport sector. Based on transportation studies, MOW's list of prioritized potential
road project is useful for short-term planning.
(d)   For capacity building of the road institutions, the possibility of establishing a twinning
arrangement with other countries should be explored in the special areas of traffic
management, transport-related air pollution, and technology transfer to the Borrower's
country.
(e)    The TA  component needs careful assessment of the institutional capacity of the
Borrower. For preparation of action plans in this special area, it is necessary to include
a sufficient skill mix in a project's appraisal team.
(f)    For major civil works contracts, procurement procedures should be achieved as close as
possible to contract award and before project effectiveness. As a general rule, the
momentum of procurement procedures should override any other consideration within
the Bank's guidelines.  As far as possible, it is also recommended to adhere to
decisions taken.
(g)   Objectives relating to sector policies, particularly involving legislation procedures,
should not be too ambitious: their goals should be realistic and, above all, reasonable
time should be allocated to their achievement.
(h)   In Mauritius town roads are under the administration of municipal committees, feeder
roads under the administration of District Councils, and main roads under the
administration of Technical Division of MOW. Although it is good to reach the
objective of decentralization, it needs strong inter-agency coordination for harmonizing
development and maintenance of the country's road network.






1
PART I: PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT FROM IBRD PERSPECTIVE
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Background
1.    Mauritius, an island nation of 2,400 sq. km, is located in the Indian Ocean. Over the
past twenty years, Mauritius has undergone major structural changes from an agricultural
mono-crop economy with fast population growth, high unemployment and low per capita
income, to a situation characterized by a fairly stable population, quasi-full employment and a
rapidly diversifying economy with the emergence of new sources of growth in export,
manufacturing and tourism. The GDP more than tripled in real terms between 1970 and 1990,
with an annual growth rate of about 6 percent on average over the last two decades. There are
no railways, pipeline, coastal shipping or inland waterways in Mauritius, thus roads (about
1,881 km in 1993) are the only means of domestic transport. The country's foreign trade
depends significantly on the availability of efficient roads and road transport system.
2.    The Bank's involvement in the transport sector began in April 1974, with the financing
of the extension and modernization of the port at Port Louis. Under the highway subsector,
there were two loans, First Highway Project (FHP) and Second Highway Project (SHP)
approved in 1983 and 1989 respectively. The FHP aimed to: (a) protect capital investment in
selected main roads; (b) strengthen Ministry of Works (MOW) capacity for planning road
investments; and (c) enforce vehicle weight and traffic safety regulations. The growth in
number of motor vehicles from 73,218 in 1983, to 107,513 in 1989 (about 50%), revealed the
inadequacies of many road sections where engineering standards were deficient with a heavy
accident toll. The SHP further consolidated efforts initiated during the FHP and provided a
continued support in: (a) strengthening and upgrading of roads with a high volume of traffic;
(b) capacity-building of MOW in road maintenance; (c) traffic management; and (d)
enforcement of vehicle safety and emission control regulations.
Statement of Objectives
3.    The objectives of the SHP, as stated in the October 1989 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
were to:
(i)   protect capital investment in roads by strengthening and improving the service
life of important road sections with high traffic intensity;
(ii)  strengthen MOW's capacity for road maintenance planning and operations,
including traffic management; and
(iii) establish effective vehicle safety and emission control standards and procedures.



2
4.   In order to achieve these objectives, MOW prepared a "Highway Program FY1990-
1993", estimated at US$107.1 million based on June 1989 prices. It comprised the following
main components:
(a)   Strengthening and improvement of about 108 km of main roads;
(b)   A four-year cycle (FY1990-93) program of periodic maintenance of about 404
km of main roads;
(c)   A four-year cycle (FY1990-93) program of routine maintenance of 840 km of
main roads and 27 km of motorways;
(d)   Traffic  management, including: (a) improvement of intersections; (b)
installation of new traffic lights; (c) provision of loop detectors at existing
traffic lights; and (d) provision of street lighting;
(e)   Vehicle safety and emission control; and
(f)   Consultant services and training.
5.    As part of the above program, the Government of France provided the financing for
equipment and technical assistance (TA) for routine maintenance. The priority elements of the
program (para 4) were financed under SHP in the amount of US$30.0 million, and by GOM in
the amount of US$13.6 million equivalent. The SHP comprised the following components:
(a)   Strengthening and upgrading of about 46 km of the following main roads to
acceptable engineering standards: (i) Black River Road (28 km); (ii) Saint Jean
Road (2 km); (iii) B2 Palma Road (9 km); and (iv) Flic-en-Flac Road (7 km);
(b)   Carrying out a four-year (FY  1990-93) program  of resurfacing (periodic
maintenance) of about 130 km of main roads;
(c)   Carrying out a four-year (FY 1990-93) program of routine maintenance of about
840 km of main roads and 27 km of motorways;
(d)   Improvement of the circulation system and traffic management to control axle
loads;
(e)   Establishment of vehicle safety and emission control standards and procurement
of equipment for enforcement; and
(f)   TA, including consultant services and training.



3
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    All the objectives were important for the country and relevant for the transport sector.
The project objectives were consistent with GOM's policy and the Bank's strategy to assist the
country. They focused on: (a) integration of transport planning and investments with GOM's
macro-economic policy; (b) easing critical traffic bottlenecks caused by the increased traffic
volumes; (c) upgrading of low strength and limited capacity roads; and (d) strengthening
MOW's institutional capacity for improving road maintenance. Furthermore, the project
objectives were in accordance with the priorities enunciated in the Public Sector Investment
Program (PSIP) and GOM's Development Plan FY89-92. All three objectives were stated in
order of priority.
7.    The first objective of improving the service life of important road infrastructure was
clear and relevant. Since the roads in Mauritius were initially constructed as agriculture tracks
without proper engineering design, their weak structure and poor geometric standards were not
compatible with the high volume of traffic, ranging from 700 vpd to 3000 vpd at the time of
project preparation. Therefore, the project included the strengthening and upgrading of highly
circulated roads based on a maximum legal single axle load of 10 tons and for an economic life
of 20 years. The second objective of institutional strengthening was very timely to the
improvement of efficiency in the planning and operation of road maintenance.  It also
addressed the key issue of traffic management in order to reduce alarming traffic congestion
and improve riding conditions. The project included: (a) improvement of road intersections;
(b) provision of loop detectors; (c) additional traffic lights; and (e) street lighting.
8.    The third objective of improving vehicle safety and establishing standard procedures for
vehicle emission control formed an integral part in the development of the road transport
system. This objective focused on assessing the scope of air pollution problems with adequate
monitoring of the pollutants. This objective was very demanding, considering a more than
47% increase in the number of vehicles over a period of six years. However, the tasks needed
to review existing road and traffic regulations, and to make recommendations in all aspects of
vehicle registration, certification and fitness, setting standards and effective procedures, and
were too optimistic for the implementing agencies to complete within the time-frame provided
under the project.
9.    With the exception of the objectives relating to traffic management and vehicle
emission control, the project's concept and design were appropriate to meet its development
objectives. The objectives relating to traffic management and vehicle emission control were
too ambitious and put heavy demands on the Borrower in achieving the desired coordination
among all the related institutions involved. MOW did not have enough in-house expertise and
relied upon external assistance. In order to meet these objectives, the Bank sought and reached
agreement with the Borrower at negotiations stage on the following two covenants: (a) MOW
would prepare a date-bound, time-based action program for monitoring ambient air quality
standards for vehicle emissions, not later than December 31, 1991; and (b) MOW would



4
prepare an action program to ensure effective traffic control, not later than December 31,
1991.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The project was successful in achieving its principal objectives.  The objective of
protecting capital investment in roads and improving service life of important road sections
was substantially achieved, although the strengthening of weak road sections require continual
attention. Also, the objective of strengthening MOW's capacity was substantially achieved,
and the technical standards, management of unit costs and performance efficiency of MOW
have improved notably since the time of loan appraisal, judging by the standards that prevailed
at the time of loan approval. Although the project's special objectives relating to traffic
management, vehicle safety and emission control were only partially achieved, the project has
provided a strong foundation in these areas, and the Borrower is taking steps towards
achieving these objectives. An overview on the achievement of objectives is provided below,
based on implementation experience, under five main headings: (i) physical objectives; (ii)
institutional development; (iii) sector policies; (iv) macroeconomic policies; and (v)
environmental concerns.  Other objectives relating to poverty reduction, social welfare,
financial performance, and private sector development were thought to be applicable under this
project at the time of appraisal.
Physical Objectives
11.   Strengthening and Improvement of Main Roads: At loan closing, 43.2 km of road
were strengthened, compared with 46 km agreed at appraisal. These were: (a) Road Riviere
Noire-Port Louis (27.3 kim); and (b) Saint Jean Roundabout-Flic en Flac (15.87 kIn). The
remaining work on about 2.8 km could not be completed due to the very high cost of land
acquisition. The reduced scope of work did not have any negative impact in achieving the
project's objectives and the Borrower's decision to defer this construction was sound. The
initial works description did not include street lighting under this component (para 5a).
However, on recommendation of the Borrower, the Bank agreed to include street lighting at
the time of approving bidding documents.  As a result, the project's accomplishments
exceeded those agreed at appraisal in terms of improvement of road safety and convenience to
the road users. In general, the upgrading works included: (a) strengthening of existing
pavements with additional layers containing bituminous materials and graded crushed stone;
(b) widening of the carriageway; (c) improving horizontal and vertical profiles of existing
alignments with new construction (about 15 km were realigned); (d) rehabilitation and
improvement of the cross-drainage works; (e) constructing retaining walls, footpaths and hard
shoulders; (f) providing road traffic signs, carriageway marking, guardrails, pedestrian
handrails, bus lay-bys, milestones and ramps for disabled persons; (g) auxiliary civil
engineering works for replacement of old water pipelines laid previously under the pavements,
with new pipes laid at the appropriate locations; and (h) construction of crawler lanes for slow



5
moving traffic on steep slopes. All these upgrading works helped improve road safety, ease
traffic congestion, and good riding quality on improved road pavements.
12.   Resurfacing Program: At appraisal, it was agreed to complete resurfacing (periodic
maintenance) of 130 km of main roads. However, at loan closing 46 km were completed
under Bank financing and the remaining 84 km were completed under local funding. During
implementation, detailed investigation showed that severely deteriorated and uneven pavement
surfaces and a poor drainage system required prior reshaping of the pavement and
improvement of side drains. Those unplanned activities were essential in providing good
riding conditions and protecting the investment made. Therefore, with the available Bank
financing, it was not possible to accomplish all the physical targets of resurfacing on account
of additional costs. However, with local funds, MOW succeeded in: (a) reshaping the surface
of pavement; (b) raising side drains wherever necessary; (c) cleaning and repairing drainage
structures; and (d) providing pavement markings and traffic signs.
13.   Routine Maintenance: All agreed equipment, material and supplies provided through
the project for the carrying out of routine maintenance operations, were procured in time.
Routine maintenance for 880 km of main roads and 27 km of motorways was completed,
including, inter alia: (a) clearing of shoulders; (b) cleaning and repairing of ditches and
culverts; (c) filling of potholes; (d) minor repairs and painting of bridges; (e) patching and
resealing; (f) repainting of carriageway markings; and (g) repairing of road signs and traffic
signals.
14.   Traffic Management: Street lighting was completed for 3 km. Although funds for
three traffic lights were covered under the Bank financing, MOW installed these under local
funding. The project also included the improvement of intersections and provision of loop
detectors, which were not completed by loan closing (para 16).
Institutional Development Objectives
15.   Given that at the time of appraisal in mid-1989, GOM reorganized the maintenance
section of MOW and privatized implementation of resurfacing works, a component was added
to strengthen the maintenance section. Accordingly, the project provided a total of 75 man-
months of TA, which included: (a) 30 man-months for a periodic maintenance expert; (b) 24
man-months for a routine maintenance expert; (c) 6 man-months for a traffic management
expert; and (d) 15 man-months for an environmental expert. During project execution, the
Bank and the Borrower agreed to reduce the scope of TA earmarked for road maintenance as it
was found that MOW had the capacity to carry out the services effectively without external
expertise. Furthermore, the following institutional reforms were implemented: (a) creation of
a Road Fund to finance road maintenance; (b) training of supervisory staff responsible for road
maintenance; and (c) gradual increase of budget allocation for maintenance of roads from
MuR40 million in 1989 to MuR10 million in 1995. As a result, TA of 54 man-months



6
earmarked for road maintenance were removed, but other TA were partially used (para. 16
and 17).
16.   The project provided TA (6 person-months) for a traffic management expert to assist
MOW in the preparation of the action program, proposals for a traffic circulation system, and
the upgrading of road intersections. The Borrower hired a consultant for 3 person-months: the
consultant's report was useful in providing a general overview of all the key issues relating to
traffic master plan and road safety in Mauritius. However, the report did not contribute much
to achieving all agreed targets of preparing an action program, proposal for traffic circulation
system, and improvement of road intersections.  In fact the consultant overestimated the
capability of Traffic Management Unit (TMU), and failed to provide any practical assistance
in the planning and implementation of traffic management related works (para 8). The
consultant did not prepare any comprehensive action program based on short-term, medium-
term and long-term needs to improve traffic management, as required in the loan covenant
(para. 9). However, MOW launched several remedial actions, including bus lay-bys, paid
parking and crawler lanes to ease traffic congestion on steep slopes, which were all found to be
very useful.
17.   The project also provided TA (15 person-months) for an environmental expert to assist
in monitoring exhaust pollutants and setting up standards for vehicle emission control. The
Borrower hired an environmental expert for two months and the consultant reviewed existing
Road and Traffic Regulations making recommendations for incorporation into the existing
regulations, which are now awaiting Government approval (Para. 21). Contrary to the loan
covenants (para. 9), no action program was prepared by loan closing.
18.   Development of human resources formed an integral part of the institutional
development component under this project. It included technology transfer at management
level, improved knowledge of the state of the art at the middle level, and on-the-job training at
the technicians' level.  One engineer attended a course in "Highway Construction and
Maintenance", financed by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) during the
period September/November 1993. Two Principal Engineers and two Engineers participated
in courses on "Road Maintenance" in France during June 1994, and September 1994. The
Chief Engineer, Traffic Engineer, and one Civil Engineer attended a course on "Traffic
Management and Road Safety" in France during September 1994. The Chief Engineer and
four Principal Engineers participated in a ten day seminar on "Contracts Law and Contract
Management" in Mauritius in August 1993. Additionally, training courses were conducted for
supervisory staff between July and November 1993 in Mauritius.
19.   Because MOW  retains its personnel and assures continuity in technical careers and
responsibilities, and because experience acquired in management of unit costs (para. 26), the
achievement of institutional objectives was substantial under the road maintenance and
training, and only partial in the specialized areas of traffic management and vehicle emission
control.



7
20.   Macroeconomic Policies. No specific objectives relating to macroeconomic policies
were agreed at appraisal. However, with regard to the completion of upgrading main roads
(para 11) and resurfacing (para 12), the project contributed in meeting the following
macroeconomic policy objectives: (i) more efficient utilization of the existing transport
infrastructure, with emphasis on improving important routes carrying substantial volumes of
goods and passengers; and (ii) maintaining all transport operations in a harmonized manner, in
cooperation with the road users, and making them competitive, cost-effective and energy
efficient.
21.   Sector Policies. Although no specific objectives relating to sector policies were agreed
upon at appraisal, the project largely supported the following policy objectives of the transport
sector: (a) upgrading the road network to correct the structural weaknesses; (b) increasing
support for road maintenance operations in the form of equipment, materials and supplies; (c)
expanding the existing network to relieve congestion where roads have reached their traffic-
bearing capacity; (d) supporting an additional center for vehicle examination facilities to
ensure old vehicles are examined regularly; and (e) minimizing road accidents by improving
riding quality, road alignments, street lighting, and the enforcement of speed limits.
22.   Environmental Concerns. To achieve the objective of monitoring exhaust pollutants
and setting up standards for emission control, a study was carried out by an environmental
expert, who reviewed existing Road and Traffic Regulations, and made recommendations.
The main findings were: (a) the amount of gasoline fuel used has increased by about 51% over
the last five years (1987-91) while diesel fuel increased only 3.9%; (b) the gasoline used is of
the leaded variety with a Research Octane Rating of 95. Before July 1992, the maximum
amount of lead in gasoline was set at 0.84 grams per liter.  Recently, the State Trading
Corporation (STC) changed this specification and established a maximum lead limit of 0.4
gram per liter. The key recommendations were: (a) it would be unlawful to distribute any
diesel fuel that has a sulfur content greater than 0.3%; (b) it would be unlawful to distribute
any gasoline that has a sulfur content greater than 0.1 %, lead content greater than 0.2 grams
per liter, and a benzene content greater than 5%; and (c) after the three-point component
check, vehicles shall be tested with a gas analyzer or opacity meter to determine the exhaust
concentrations or opacity.  Vehicles will pass inspections if exhaust gas concentration or
opacity is less than the pass-fail criteria given in the report. MOW received regulations and
legislation from other countries; however, these documents did not provide detailed and
practical information about enforcement. Therefore the Bank suggested, and MOW agreed, to
establish twinning arrangement with the Ministry of Environment, Singapore. This led to the
signing of a contract for consultant services with SEMES, a firm working for the Ministry of
Environment, Singapore. The study will start in mid-November 1995, and the report will be
submitted by February 1996. This study is likely to prove helpful in establishing the standards
and procedures for vehicle emission control. Although the environmental objectives relating to
pollution control were partially achieved, a strong foundation has been provided and MOW is
now committed to achieving these goals in the near future.



8
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control: (a) Several severe cyclone
conditions, including cyclone Hollanda in 1994 that lasted for about four days, but their effect
on the project was negligible because of MOW's organizational capacity and cyclone
preparation procedures; (b) consultants' ouput partially affected the progress under the
components of traffic management and environmental protection as no comprehensive action
programs were prepared in these specialized areas (para 9); and (c) the Bank also
overestimated MOW's institutional capacity in dealing with the issues of traffic control and
transport related air pollution, and the time-frame provided for drafting regulations and
establishing legal procedures was not adequate (para. 8).
24.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: There were some difficulties in land
acquisition (about 2.8 km in length), which was needed for road strengthening and its cost
went very high. However, its effect on the project was negligible because the Government
decided, and the Bank agreed, to defer road improvement for this small portion (para. 11).
25.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: (a) delays in procurement
for civil works may have resulted in completion of upgrading works slightly behind schedule
(para 25), although resurfacing and routine maintenance works were executed on schedule; (b)
delays in procurement of consulting services resulted in late submission of the reports and
consequently the action programs as covered under loan covenants could not be completed by
loan closing (para. 9).
26.  Implementation Delays. The loan was signed on May 7, 1990, and was declared
effective on June 8, 1990. The civil works for strengthening and improvement were scheduled
to begin in January 1990. The works for Lot 1 and Lot 2 began on November 18, 1991, and
April 4, 1992, respectively, about two years behind schedule. Because of tedious review
process, in particular by the Bank, it took longer than expected to finalize bidding documents,
bid evaluation and award of contract. For Lot 1, bids were invited in December 1990, and
contract was awarded on September 20, 1991, after a period of 9 months. For Lot 2, the bids
were invited in December 1990, and the contract was awarded on January 6, 1992, after a
period of more than one year. The contracts for both Lot 1 and Lot 2 were completed in April
1994, about 4 months behind the schedule set at appraisal. Progress gained momentum after
April 1992, and despite unforeseen construction difficulties, the initial delay of two years
reduced to only four months. The delay was caused by unforeseen difficulties met in the re-
routing of existing electrical poles and drainage system, inclement weather and additional
laying of water pipes. The Borrower requested extension of the scheduled loan closing date of
June 30, 1994, to June 30, 1995, mainly to allow more time for complex issues of examining
regulations and legislation to establish procedures for vehicle safety and emission control.
27.   Cost Changes: At the final cost of US$30.55 million, 43.2 km were strengthened and
upgraded, compared with the target of 46 km at the estimated cost of US$25.3 million (6%



9
less physical progress with 20%  more cost).  The final unit cost for strengthening and
improvement works is US$707,175/km, compared with US$550,000/km (SAR, para 3.20),
28% more than the appraisal estimate. Since bid prices were already 25% higher than the
appraisal estimates, it indicates that the cost of works was also underestimated at appraisal
stage. The reason might be that MOW did not have any system for monitoring unit rates
based on the annual increase in the price break-down of labor, material and equipment.
Despite cost changes in some components of the project, there was no overrun under Bank
financing because: (a) there were savings in the TA component; (b) some works agreed under
Bank financing were completed under local funding (para. 12 and 14).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The benefits derived from road upgrading and resurfacing of main road sections will be
greater than those expected at appraisal (para 36), and thus the project is likely to be
sustainable. The main reasons are: (a) GOM's commitment to providing adequate funding for
road maintenance in the coming years; (b) participation of road users in generating road funds;
(c) increased technical capability of MOW, in the planning and operation of road maintenance,
and (d) continued emphasis on training of supervisory staff.  Based on the information
provided by MOW, sufficient budget allocations have been made in the Ministry's recurrent
estimates for all routine and periodic maintenance activities of the roads, which were recently
strengthened, upgraded and resurfaced under the project. With the institutional reforms MOW
introduced during the project implementation phase (para. 15), MOW  is capable and has
sufficient equipment, workshop facilities and supervisory personal to plan and implement all
the required routine maintenance operations.
29.   To ensure that the benefits from the upgrading and resurfacing of main road will
continue as expected, adequate traffic management, including road safety on the project roads,
needs to gradually increase in the following years. Over the last five years, vehicle fleet size
has risen more than 50%, from 107,513 vehicles in 1989 to 168,158 in 1993, whereas the
length of roads has hardly increased by 4% in the corresponding years, from 1,801 km in 1989
to 1,881 km in 1993. In the absence of remedial measures regarding emission control, the
sustained growth in vehicle fleet is likely to create transport-related environmental problems
(para. 21). However, the Government and MOW are committed to easing traffic congestion,
improving road safety and mitigating environmental concerns by proposing new transportation
projects, and setting up a pollutant control and monitoring system. The Ministry of Finance
(MOF) also provided additional budget for traffic management and environmental protection in
the coming years.
30.   MOW executes road maintenance operations on an ad-hoc, but highly efficient, basis.
This approach might further benefit from the introduction of a pavement management system
based on traffic counts, existing pavement conditions, and climatic situations.



10
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   Identification and Preparation: The project was identified in discussions between
GOM and the Bank. It followed FHP and to fit in well with the Government's development
plan and the Bank's strategy for the country (para. 6). The project, which formed the part of a
highway program, was prepared with the support of consultants.
32.   Appraisal: The Bank thoroughly reviewed the Highway Program of MOW (para. 4),
and correctly selected the most economically viable sub-projects for upgrading and
resurfacing. The need for preparing "Action Programs" for traffic management and vehicle
emission control was correctly addressed during appraisal, and adequately highlighted as major
covenant in the Loan Agreement (para. 9).  However, the contents and methodology of
preparation of these action programs were not clearly spelled out in the project documents. As
a result, no action program could be completed by the loan's closing date. It looks as if the
Appraisal Mission did not include a sufficient skill mix, and no detailed TORs or output of the
consulting services were agreed before negotiations.  In designing excessive TA  for
maintenance experts (54 man-months), the institutional capacity of the implementing agency
was not adequately assessed. As a result, TA remained largely unused (para. 15). The
resurfacing program (130 km) selected at appraisal was not found practicable, and the scope of
work was substantially changed during implementation (para. 12). On balance, the Bank's
performance in this area was mixed, satisfactory in the case of civil works, and marginally
satisfactory in the case of other components.
33.   Supervision: The Loan was declared effective on June 8, 1990. Progress was very
slow at the beginning and no civil works were launched until early-1992, two years behind
appraisal schedule. Both the Borrower and the Bank took a long time to finalize bidding
documents. However, in May 1992, progress gained momentum and works were completed in
April 1994, only 4 months behind appraisal schedule (para. 25). The quality of supervision
was professional, objective and based on a solid understanding of the Borrower's institutional
capabilities and the Bank's policies and procedures.  During implementation, the Bank-
Borrower relationship was beneficial and productive, as measured by the physical results
achieved and the preparation of new Port Louis Ring Road Project. The Bank gave useful
advice on remedial actions to ease traffic congestion (para. 16) and on revising roads and
traffic regulations based on the Singapore experience (para. 21), which were all appreciated
and implemented by the Borrower. All loan covenants were appropriately enforced and the
performance rating given in the supervision forms 590 were fitting. On the whole, the Bank's
performance in supervision was highly satisfactory, in both quality and quantity.



I1
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
34.   Preparation: The project formed part of the Highway Program FY90-93, which was
prepared by MOW. The Borrower's performance in reviewing the highway program and
selection of the priority items for the SHP components was satisfactory. The main roads
selected for upgrading were highly circulated and were designed in accordance with approved
international standards. The economic criteria based on ERR adopted in selection of main
road sections for strengthening and upgrading was acceptable.  However, the resurfacing
program of 130 km selected for the main roads was not based on a maintenance management
system, although it was prepared on the basis of two successive studies conducted by
consultants in 1985 and 1988. It was not found practicable, owing to the weakness of existing
pavement, and substantial changes were made in the scope of work (para. 12).
35.   Implementation Performance: The Borrower's performance in completing the civil
works component was satisfactory. Despite an initial delay of about two years, the Borrower
managed to complete civil works with an over-run of only 4 months, and well ahead of the
extended loan closing date (para. 25).  Outputs of the routine maintenance were highly
satisfactory as compared to other countries in Africa. On resource mobilization, a Road Fund
was established in 1990 to finance road maintenance with revenues derived from a levy on fuel
sales.  The quality of all completed civil works was more than satisfactory.  However,
specialized components relating to traffic management and vehicle emission suffered delays
(para. 16 and 17).
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The project's outcome was satisfactory in that its major objective of protecting capital
investment not only by strengthening of road pavements, but also by placing greater emphasis
on drainage, street lighting, and the realignment of critical sections was achieved.  The
outcome will prove beneficial to road users and other sectors of the economy. All civil works
components were completed as planned, and their ERR were higher than the minimum rate of
12%.  Additionally, with regard to institutional development, the project increased the
availability of local trained staff in MOW (para. 18).
37.   Economic Re-Evaluation: Table 8 summarizes the economic re-evaluation of all sub-
projects.  Based on actual construction costs and on the most probable estimates of
maintenance costs, investment made on road improvement projects produces an ERR ranging
from  21 %  to 46%, compared with 21 %  to 30%  at appraisal.  The computed ERRs
underestimate the full benefits of the project as they do not include benefits due to increased
traffic safety, quality of service, and convenience to travelers on the improved facilities which
are a substantial outcome of the project and which have been upgraded during project
implementation. The economic benefits included savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC),
passenger travel times and road maintenance costs. The existing traffic levels were obtained



12
through traffic count surveys, and the previous growth rates have been taken into account for
the computation of benefits. This is likely to lead to a conservative estimate for the ERR as
VOC and passenger time values have increased significantly during the last years. Despite the
carefully made calculations, the revised ERRs values are greated than the lower values
considered in the sensitivity analysis at appraisal stage. Furthermore, all investments would
now yield first year benefit ratio (FYR) in excess of 16%, as compared to a threshold value of
12% calculated at appraisal stage The ultimate beneficiaries of the completed project would be
road users who, due to the diversity of the traffic using the road network, come from a wide
range of sectors and income groups.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.   Since most of the civil works included strengthening, upgrading and resurfacing of the
existing main roads, no formal plan of operation was established. However, to ensure routine
and periodic maintenance for the improved roads, MOW has made all the necessary
arrangements, including technical planning, budgetary provisions, mechanical workshops and
adequate staff for road maintenance.  Basic performance indicators such as pavement
conditions, traffic volumes, and the number of accidents would be monitored for the following
purposes: (a) reporting on the effectiveness of maintenance management; (b) regular
assessment of the project benefits; and (c) improvement in road safety, easing of congestion,
axle loads and vehicle emission control. Based on MOW's improved institutional capacity and
GOM's priority for maintenance of highly circulated road infrastructures,efficient execution of
road maintenance is no longer a concern. However, the Bank's assistance would still be
required for further upgrading works in order to allow the country to maintain pace with the
ever-growing traffic volume. This would not preclude a follow-up in the field of traffic
management and VEC.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
39.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)   The next resurfacing program for periodic maintenance would benefit from the setting
up of a Pavement Management System, which would monitor and update all relevant
data on condition surveys, pavement strength, rainfall intensity and classified traffic
counts.
(b)   To achieve all physical targets within allocated funding and ensure good financial
control during the implementation of a project, unit rates used in the project cost
estimates for various road activities play an important role. It is essential for a Road
Agency to have a system for updating unit rates annually, based on the fluctuation in
market prices for labor, equipment and materials.



13
(c)    Long-term RSMP, based on a transportation study, should provide a sound basis for a
lending program of future investments and strategy of road development in the
transport sector.  MOW's list of prioritized potential road projects is useful for
planning.
(d)    For capacity building of the road institutions, the possibility of establishing a twinning
arrangement with other countries should be explored in the special areas of traffic
management, transport-related air pollution, and technology transfer to the Borrower's
country.
(e)    The TA component needs careful assessment with regards to the institutional capacity
of the Borrower. For the preparation of action plans in this special area, it is necessary
to include a sufficient skill mix in the project's appraisal team.
(f)    For major civil works contracts, procurement procedures should be achieved as close as
possible to contract award, before the project becomes effective. As a general rule, the
momentum of procurement procedures should over ride any other consideration within
the Bank's guidelines.  As far as possible, it is also recommended to adhere to
decisions taken.
(g)    Objectives relating to sector policies, particularly involving legislation procedures,
should not be too ambitious: their goals should be realistic, and above all, a reasonable
time-frame should be allowed for their achievement.
(h)   In Mauritius, town roads are under the administration of municipal committees, feeder
roads under the administration of District Councils, and main roads under the
administration of the Technical Division of MOW. Although achieving the objective of
decentralization is positive, strong inter-agency coordination is needed for harmonizing
development and maintenance of the country's road network.



14
PART II: SUPPORTING ANNEX AND STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                ()              (ii)              ()                 ()
Sector policies                       ()              (v)               ()                 ()
Financial objectives                  ()               ()               ()                (v)
Institutional development             ()              (v')              ()                ()
Physical objectives                  (/)               ()               ()                 ()
Poverty reduction                     ()               ()               ()                (v)
Gender concerns                       ()               ()               ()
Other social objectives               ()               ()               ()                (v)
Environmental objectives              ()              (ii)              ()                ()
Public sector management              ()               ()               ()                (i)
Private sector development            ()               ()               ()                (i)
Other (specify)                       ( )              ( )              ( )               (v)
B. Proiect Sustainability                Likely                  Unlikely                   Uncertain
(v)                        ()                         ()
C. Bank Performance                   Highly
Satisfactor               Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                           ()                        (i)                         ()
Preparation Assistance                   ( )                       (v)                         (
Appraisal                                ()                        (v)                         ()
Supervision                              (v)                        ()                         ()
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 Deficient
Preparation                               ()                       (I)                         ( )
Implementation                           ()                        (1)                         ()
Covenant Compliance                       ()                       (1)                         ()
Operation (if applicable)                 ( )                       ( )                        (
Highly                                              Highly
E. Assessment of outcome              Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
()             (v')               ()                ()



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title            Purpose            1  Year of   j          Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. 0976      Port Development                  1974             Completed
2. 2229      Water Supply I                    1982             Completed
3. 2337      Highways I                        1983             Completed
4. 2728      Sugar Industry                    1986             Completed
5. 2791      Industrial Sector Adjustment      1987             Completed
6. 2927      Industrial Finance                1988             Completed
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date planned'        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                           June 1988         June 1988
Preparation                              December 1988    December 1988
Appraisal                                April 28, 1989    May 3, 1989
Negotiations                             June, 1989        August 11 - 25, 1989
Board Presentation                       November, 1989   November 7, 1989
Signing                                  May, 1990         May 7, 1990
Effectiveness                            June, 1990        June 8, 1990
Project Completion                       June 30, 1993     June 30, 1994
Loan Closing                             June 30, 1994     June 30, 1995
1. As provided in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
________I FY90   FY91 [FY92    FY93                   FY94  [FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate  1,900   8,500   17,300   25.100    30,000  30,000   30,000
Actual              0     0,290   4,050    13,910    27,000   29,274   29,912
Actual as % of      0       4       23       55        90       97       99
estimate
Date of final       0                                                 Oct. 31,
disbursement                                                            1995



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation Indicators    |  Estimated               Actual
in SAR                                    .
(A) Physical Objectives (Page 20 of SAR)
1. Strengthening and Improvement             46 km                43.2 km
2. Resurfacing Program                       130 km               46 km*
3. Routine Maintenance Program              840 km                 881 km
(B) Traffic Management (Page 41 of
SAR)
1. Street Lighting                           3 km                  3 km
2. Traffic Signals                           3 No.                 3 No.
(C) Institutional Development Objectives
(a) Technical Assistance (Page 43 of SAR)
1. Resurfacing Expert                      30 people-   Not Applicable
months      (In-house capacity increased
with additional staff)
2. Routine Maint. Expert                   24 people-   Not Applicable
months      (In-house capacity increased
with additional staff)
3. Traffic Management Expert                6 people-    3 people-months
months
4. Environmental Expert                    15 people-   2 people-months*
months
*     The remaining 130 - 46 = 84 km of resurfacing program was completed under local funding.
**    Although loan was closed on June 30, 1995, the TA for a remaining environmental expert
continued under local funding. MOW signed a contract in October 1995 with a consulting firm from
Singapore for three people-months effective from mid November 1995.



18
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study       Purpose as Defined     Status              Impact of Study
at Appraisal/
l  _ Redefined        _
1. Vehicle        Monitoring the     Completed    Recommendation were made, but not
Emissions         pollutants and                  yet approved by the Government.
Standards         setting up standards            (Refer to ICR para 21)
2. Traffic        A review of Urban   Preliminary   Provided good base to undertake final
Management        Transport and Road  Studies     study
l________________   Safety            Completed
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  [Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign
Item              costs    costs      Total    costs    costs      Total
1. Strengthening and          8.19     15.50     23.69     10.7    19.85      30.55
2. Resurfacing Program        2.48     4.70      7.18      1.72     3.19       4.91
3. Supply of Equipment        0.39     2.41      2.80      0.51     2.70       3.21
4. Consultants' Services      0.24     2.19      2.43      0.13     1.84       1.97
5. Contingencies (Physical)   1.09     2.48       3.57       -        -         -
6. Contingencies (Price)      1.21     2.72      3.93      0.95     2.10       3.05
7. PPF                         -         -         -         -      0.50       0.50
TOTAL               13.6    30.00      43.60    14.02    29.59      43.61



19
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual/latest Estimate
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _(U S$    MK
Source              Local          Foreign       Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs          Costs                 Costs     Costs
IBRD                                                     30.00    0.00      30.00      30.0
Co-financing institutions    0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Other external sources       0.00            0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Domestic contribution        13.60           0.00        13.60    13.61      0.00      13.6
TOTAL                      13.60           30.00       43.60    13.61      30.00      43.6
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Road/      Length           Appraisal Estimates                  Revised Estimates
Link       (km)
Year   Unit Cost  AADT    ERR    Year   Unit Cost  AADT    ERR
(US$ m)              %              (US$ m)              %
Rivere -    27.9    1989     12.95     2700      21     1995      17.82     3500     21
Noire
Saint Jean    2.1   1989     2.51      19500    30      1995      2.84     25700     46
Palma       8.7     1989      6.30     4100      22     1995      7.84      5200     25
Road
Flic&       6.5     1989      1.95     2200      24     1995      3.05      2900     26
Flac     I        Iompleted 5.0 km.
*Final length completed 5.0 Iam.



N~~~~~~~~~~~ .  .              .......   . ............ .... ........................ .............   . . .... .................  ........ ...................... ........... ........... .    ...... .....  .............  ............. . . ............... . ... ............ ....
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 'ogg 
"~~~~~~~~~~~~ a; .2 .  .. ... ...... ......
.u .. o          Q.      0           .      . o                  0o
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' O                                                w O                                       i
*.M .~0ou                    .                  4.
-    ..~~~~~~~~4
~~~                                          0~~
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                  0                             ~                                            .
IL)  ~ ~ 3 0                                             Ei .3                                 C:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   
*-  0  -              00                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     0   
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o7
Cu                                                                                .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
U  o.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0~                                                                           -     a.   w         -0
0                                                          Ij C1  O. :                                                       -
02             0                          0.-       00
.......... ........ ............ ..a.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                   In     .



21
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Agree-  Sect.   Covenant Present                               Oginal               Revised  IDescription
ment                          Type   Status                 Fulfillment    Fulfill-                                of Covenant                          Comments
Date            ment Date
5.01   10                    C                                                        MOW to maintain road network
I (a)                                                                                  in accordance with appropriate
routine and periodic maintenance
practices
. ..............    .......... ........ ........................   ..................  ........  .....................  ............................I............................................ .................................................... ..
.   5.01   5                  C                                                       .MOW to maintain road network
(b)                                                                                  equipment and workshop in
accordance with appropriate
engineering, administrative and
financial practices
*C         =    covenant complied with
CD   =    completed after delay
CP    =    complied with partially
NC   =    not complied with



22
Table 10: Bank Resources - Staff Inputsl
Stage of              Planned            Revised               Actual
Project Cycle             l
US$ (000)
Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$    Weeks    (including
Travel)
Through appraisal        n/a        n/a     n/a       n/a      27.7     64.50
Appraisal-Board          n/a        n/a     n/a       n/a      25.1     58.40
Board-Effectiveness      n/a        n/a     n/a       n/a      6.85     58.40
Supervision              n/a        n/a     n/a       n/a      56.95    168.39
Completion               14                 14                 5.4      10.1
(08129195)
TOTAL            n/a        n/a     n/a        n/a     122      340.209
Travel costs are partial only as cost-accounting system newly set up could captured only part of person years
travel expenses
10. Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.



23
Table 11: Bank Resources - Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of              Number  Specialized  Implemen  Develop
project    Month!       of      staff skills    -tation    -ment    Types of
cycle       year  I persons   represented      status    impact   problems
Through
appraisal
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Spn. I        10/90    2          FA, HE            1          1         n/a*
Spn. II       8/91
Spn. III      12/91    2          FA. HE            1          1          n/a
Spn. IV      9/92
Spn. V        12/92    1          HE                1          1          n/a
Spn. VI       3/93     1          HE                1          1          n/a
Spn. VII     7/93      1          HE                1          1          n/a
Spn. VIII    4/94      2          HE, RA            1          1          n/a
Spn. IX      7/94      2          HE,RA             1          1          n/a
Spn. X        11/94    2          HE, RA            1          1          n/a
Completion   7/95      1          HE               _                       _      l
Spn  =   Supervision
* n/a =   no specific problem identified
FA   =   Financial Analyst
HE   =   Highway Engineer
RA   =   Research Assistant
Note: A Financial Analyst and Traffic Management Expert from the Bank also participated during separate
supervision missions for which Forms 590 were not recorded.



24
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
1. INTRODUCTION
The conception of the Second Highway Project and its objectives must be viewed against
the economic background of the late nineties. The economy was undergoing a period of
transition. The traditional rural and monocultural economic base was rapidly being
diversified with the emergence of a predominant manufacturing sector and the growth of
trade, tourism and services. The average rate of growth was about 6%. This resulted in
considerable pressure on the existing road network which is the only means of transport in
the country. This network though quite extensive and fairly distributed has mostly
evolved from agricultural tracks and its structure and layout were inadequate to handle the
heavy traffic volumes and loads which it was being subjected to.
Consequently the Government of Mauritius, through its Ministry of Works, had engaged
in an important road rehabilitation and strengthening programme to ensure an efficient
movement of goods and services.and support the economic development.
Some of the physical and institutional objectives of this program had been achieved under
the First Highway Project which was completed in 1989 with part financing from the
Bank. The Second Highway project formed part of the 1990-93 Highway Program and
aimed at consolidating the achievements of the First Highway Project.
2. OBJECTIVES.
The prime objective of the Project was to safeguard the capital investment on roads
estimated in 1989 at about two billion US Dollars and to strengthen the planning and
operations capacity for road maintenance within the MOW. The Project also aimed at
optimising the use of the existing network and improving the safety conditions as well as
the institutional development for effective vehicle emission and traffic control.
3. PROJECT COMPONENTS AND COSTS
The Project financed the priority items of the 1990-93 Program. Its main components and
costs are shown in Table 1 hereunder:



25
TABLE 1: COMPONENTS AND COSTS
ITEM                     COS   (S$)
Strengthening / Improvement ( 45 Km )23.69
-Resurfacing (13 0 Krn)                          7.18
Procurement of road maintenance equipment       1.00
Traffic management                              1.50
Vehicle emission and traffic control.           0.30
Consultancy services /Training.                 2.43
Contingencies                                   7.50
TOTAL                         43.60
The rehabilitation works consisted in the strengthening and improvement of 45 km of
roads servicing the west and the south western coast of the island.
The region has been undergoing a sustained development over the past years, particularly
in the tourism and manufacturing sectors with the construction of a number of resort
facilities and the relocation of certain heavy industrial units ( stone crushers, precast yards,
etc..). The works involved the reconstruction and strengthening of the existing road base/
sub-base improvement of the road geometrics through vertical and horizontal
realignments, construction of drains and footpaths, etc.
The resurfacing operations concerned 130 km of heavily trafficked roads out of a total of
about 400 km which had been identified as requiring an overlay in the short term to avoid
their premature failure whereas the traffic management component aimed at improving the
road safety conditions and optimal use of the existing road capacity.
The acquisition of the road equipment formed part of the modernisation of the
maintenance unit of the MOW to ensure adequate capacity for the proper maintenance of
the infrastructure constructed under the project as well as the road network as a whole.
4. FINANCING
The project was financed upto an amount of US$30 million (69% ) by the Bank. The
Government of Mauritius provided the balance of US$13.6 million (31%).All items of
equipment and the main materials for the construction of the permanent works as well as
the consultancy services were exempted from the payment of taxes and duties. Further,
Government financed the resurfacing of 84 km of roads for an amount of US$5 million.
5. DELAYS.
5.1 Schedule
The initial schedule proposed during appraisal stage, a copy of which is attached at Annex
1, provided for the implementation of certain components of the project to start during the



26
last quarter of 1989. However this was subsequently found to be quite optismistic as the
Loan Agreement was only signed in May 1990. This was mainly due to the delay in the
finalisation of the tender documents for the rehabilitation works which constitured the
main component of the Project.It is to be noted that a first version of the documents had
been modified strictly according to the comments made by the appraisal mission from the
Bank which visited the country in May 1989.A copy of the telex dated 3"d May 1989
giving the Bank's comments is enclosed at Annex 2. The amended documents were
transmitted for the approval of the Bank in June 1989. However in a telex dated 21't
September 1989 the Bank requested fresh amendments to the modified documents besides
raising new issues.
Government amended the documents in line with the new comments with the exception of
one item relating to the removal of subclause 12.2 of the Conditions of Particular
Applications (awareness of site conditions). This resulted in an exchange of a series of
correspondence with the Bank which finally accepted the Government's stand following
discussions with a delegation which visited Washington in May 1990. The Loan became
effective in August 1990.
5.2 Rehabilitation Works
These works were divided into two lots and involved the following contracts:
a) Consultancy services for the supervision of the civil works
b) Construction of Lot I
c) Construction of Lot 2
d) Supply, installation and commissioning of street lighting to the rehabilitated roads.
5.2.2 Appointment of consultants
The appointment of consultants was carried out following the evaluation of technical and
financial proposals from a short list of consulting engineering firms.
Consultancy proposals were received in August 1990. The evaluation report thereof was
sent to the Bank in December 1990 as the analysis of the information given in the technical
submissions and the clearance of the local authorities was an exhaustive and time
consuming exercise. The final clearance from the Bank was received in April 1991 and
the draft contract was only approved on 31 ' May 1991. The contract for the consultancy
services was signed in June 1991, i.e almost ten months after the receipt of the proposals.
This delay had a direct effect on the subsequent implementation of the rehabilitation
works.



27
5.2.3 Contract Awards.
Tenders from prequalified contractors were received in December 1990. In February
1991 Government decided to carry out the bid evaluation using its own resources due to
the delay in the appointment of the Consultants. The Evaluation Report was sent to the
Bank in May 1991 and a reply was received in July 1991.
Following negotiations with the selected Contractors on the basis of the Bank's
comments, clarifications and additional information were transmitted to the Bank in
August/September 1991. Subsequently the Bank approved the award for Lot 1 in
September 1991 and this Contract was signed on 3td October 1991.
As regards Lot 2, the Bank asked for additional information not requested in its reply
dated July 1991. The negotiations with the Contractor and Bank's clearance process
turned out to be a very lengthy procedure particularly as the Bank proposed that the price
adjustment for certain indices be subjected to a maximum limit. This was not in strict
accordance with the Conditions of Contract proposed in the Tender.
Further this restriction had not been mentioned in the Letter of intent issued to the
selected Contractor which had been based on the Bank's initial reply. The Contract for
this Lot was finally signed in February 1992.
The contracts for Lot 1 and Lot 2 were awarded respectively nine months and fourteen
months after the date of receipt of bids whereas the initial validity of the tenders was six
months.
It involved the exchange of six telexes in each case in addition to two office meetings with
the Bank's officials in the case of Lot 2. Details of the correspondence exchanged with
the Bank on this issue are attached at Annex 3.
5.2.4 Service Networks.
Coordination meetings had been held with the various authorities responsible for the
service networks located along the project roads to allow them to carry out any proposed
works well in advance.
Subsequently the rerouting of the water services were included in the main contracts
whereas Mauritius Telecom carried out the improvement works on its network before the
start of the rehabilitation works. As regards the electrical services a provisional sum was
provided in the main contracts for any modifications required.No major problems were
expected as similar arrangements had given satisfactory results in the case of the First
Highway Project. However the provisions did not work out as expected in the case of Lot
1 and this resulted in a delay of about five months in the execution of the works for this
contract. The reasons for the delay in displacing the electric poles were identified and
appropriate measures were taken to avoid similar problems on Lot 2.



?8
5.2.5 Overall Delay.
It should be pointed out that all the works were completed with an overall delay of only
four months on the initial appraisal schedule.  The professional approach of the
supervision missions during which all issues relating to approval of tender documents,
contract awards and other aspects were discussed and a close collaboration between
Government and the Bank were instrumental to the reduction of the accumulated delay.
6. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.
6.1 Rehabilitation works.
The contract for Lot I was awarded for an amount of Rs 287 million (27.37km) to the
joint venture A&J Maurel/Colas. The works started in November 1991 and were
scheduled for completion in November 1993. However, the contractor was given an
extension of time of five months, with costs, on account of the delay in the relocation of
the electric poles and the works were completed in April 1994.
The final cost of the works was Rs 302 million. At the end of the Defects Liability Period
the pavement was found to show signs of apparent bleeding at three locations covering a
total length of about 2 km. Subsequent tests showed that the bleeding was only superficial
and the defect was probably due to the excessive stresses induced in the pavement
structure at two of these locations which were situated in a sharp bend and on a steep
slope respectively. However, the defective surface at the third zone (500 metres) was
found to be directly attributable to a very high bitumen content of the asphaltic concrete
wearing course and the Contractor was instructed to take remedial measures.
The retention money relating to this section was witheld until the completion of the
remedial works in September 1995. The Defects Liability Certificate was issued on
9'h.Octoberl 995.
The contract for Lot 2 was awarded to Transinvest Engineering Co.Ltd for thesum of Rs
227 million (18 km). The works started in April 1992 and werecompleted within schedule
in April 1994 at a total cost of Rs 233 million. The totallength of road rehabilitated under
this contract was reduced to 15.7 Km as a result of land acquisition problems encountered
on the last 2 km of the project road. Thesavings were used for the construction of a
crawler lane on a steep section of the project road on a length of one km.and to provide an
asphaltic concrete wearing course in place of the proposed surface dressing on the last five
kilometres of theproject (Flic en Flac Rd). The contract for Lot 2 also included the
execution oftheworks for Phase I of the Reconstruction of St. Jean Roundabout through
anominated subcontract.Following a tendering exercise the bid submitted by Transinvest
Engineering was found to be the most competitive and the works were carried out as a
variation to the main contract. The works did not show any major shortcomings at the
end of the Defects Liability Period.



29
The average cost of the works per kilometre of road was about Rs 12.5 million (Rsl 1
million in the case of Lot 1 which was located mostly in rural areas and Rs 14.5 million for
Lot 2 which included a heavily built up urban zone). This figure is about 30 % higher than
the expected average of Rs 9.5 million during appraisal stage. It is to be noted that the
variation of prices accounted for less than five percent of this increase and that the bid
prices obtained at tender stage were almost 25 % higher than the appraisal estimates. This
indicates that the cost of the works were probably underestimated at appraisal stage. It is
also likely that the delay in the finalisation of the tender documents (refer Para 5.1)
coupled with the high (two digit) inflation rate over the period from 1988 when the
feasibility study was carried out to 1991 contributed to the increase in the base cost.
6.2 Resurfacing
Only 46 km of roads were resurfaced under the Project out of the scheduled 130
Km.Under the original program it had been proposed to restrict the operations to the
provision of an overlay to the road surface. However subsequent detailed investigations
showed that it was essential to carry out some improvements to the existing drainage
system to protect the investment being made.  Further the need for better driving
conditions through minimal reshaping of the pavement was also found to be necessary to
attract the targeted traffic and hence reduce the congestion on the other heavily trafficked
roads
These measures , coupled with external factors such as inflation, doubled the cost of the
resurfacing works from the appraisal estimate of Rs 0.9 million to almost Rs 1.8 million
per kilometre and hence the reduction in the length resurfaced under the Project. The
outstanding 84 km were resurfaced by Government from its own resources during the
project implementation.
The works were procured through both local and international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the Guidelines of the Bank.
6.2.2 LCB
15 km of roads were resurfaced through seven small contracts under local bidding
procedures for a total amount of about Rs 18 million. The works were completed on
schedule except in the case of St. Paul Rd where a delay was experienced due to the very
poor condition of the existing drainage system.
6.2.3 ICB
The resurfacing of the Motorway (MI ) from Port Louis to Phoenix and the Mon Choisy-
Cap Malheureux Road were carried out following a prequalification of contractors.
However only the locally based contractors submitted bids for the works in each case
despite the fact that foreign firms had been prequalified.



30
The tender for the resurfacing of the Motorway was awarded to the tenderer which had
submitted the second lowest evaluated bid as the tenderer ranked first refused to accept
the award on the terms and conditions stipulated in the Letter of intent and requested for a
negotiation of the contract sum on the grounds that it had not been issued with a full set of
drawings at tender stage and was unaware of the exact extent of the site of works.
Detailed investigations carried out by the Transport Research Laboratory (TRL) of UK
which had been appointed by the Borrower to advise on the job mix formula showed that
the pavement had undergone severe deterioration between the time of initial survey and
the execution of the works. The consultants recommended that those sections that were
severely damaged be reconstructed or repaired prior to the resurfacing to avoid damage to
the resurfaced road through reflective cracking. This resulted in an increase of about Rs 5
million to the intial contract sum.
The resurfacing operations were carried out at night in order to cause minimum disruption
to traffic on this very important link. The repairs were mostly executed during the day but
restricted to off peak hours. The works were completed within the contractual completion
period.
The contract for the resurfacing of Mon Choisy-Cap-Malheureux Road was awarded to
Transinvest Engineering for the amount of Rs 26 million in October 1993 and completed
in May 1994 without any major constraints.
6.3 Street lighting
The provision of street lighting along the Motorway (MI) from Caudan roundabout to
Pailles and along the rehabilitated roads was included in the project to improve the safety
conditions along these roads particularly after the completion of the improvement works.
The street lighting of the rehabilitated roads had been initially included as a provisional
sum in the contracts for Lot I and Lot 2. This item was subsequently removed from these
contracts and the works procured through local competitive bidding with the agreement of
the Bank.
The contracts for the rehabilitated roads and the Motorway were awarded to Messrs.
Metamix and Design 2 limited for the respective amounts of Rs 7.1 million and Rs 7.0
million..
The works on both sites were completed at about the same time in September/October
1994.
6.4 Traffic Management.
This component of the project was not fully completed by the closing date. It included the
implementation of a one way system in the city of Port Louis and the installation of traffic
lights and loop detectors at important junctions as well as the acquisition of speed check



31
equipment. The initial schedule (Refer Annex 1) provided for the evaluation and award of
the contracts for these works during the first six months of the implementation period in
order to reap the maximum benefits from these traffic management measures. On the
other hand the Loan agreement included a covenant for the submission of an action
program for effective traffic control within the first 24 months of the implementation
period. The traffic management measures detailed in the Loan agreement were a
continuation of the traffic control scheme already initiated under the First Highway Project
and had been discussed and agreed with the appraisal mission.
The preparation of the action plan, from the Borrower's point of view, was to provide
Government with the essential tools for policy making and effective planning for traffic
management and the adoption of a global approach and strategy and was complementary
to the execution of the works already identified as mentioned above. However the Bank
insisted that the action plan be submitted before the financing of any traffic management
works under the project. This had seriuos effects on the component.since the Action Plan
could not be submitted by December 1991 as it had to be prepared by a consultant.
Subsequently the Transport Research Laboratory(UK) was appointed as consultant to
carry out a study and prepare the Action Plan. The study started in April 1993 and was
completed in June 1993.
The plan submitted in the consultant's Report recommended the implementation of a
series of measures such as controlled parking, additional traffic signal equipment,
pedestrian facilities, etc. The following measures were implemented later in consultation
with thw Bank:
-Installation of 3 sets of traffic lights
-acquisition of speed check equipment
-Paid parking in Port Louis and the main urban areas.
As it was expected that there would be a shortage of credit under the Loan funds the
works were financed from local funds.
Government has also restructured the Traffic Management Unit of the MOW and doubled
the number of qualified staff (Engineers, Technicians ) attached to the section.
6.5 Vehicle Safety and Emission Control.
An environmental expert was appointed for the preparation of an action plan to monitor
ambient air quality and to establish vehicle ernission standards. The consultant's report
revealed thatthere was an absence of practical measures applicable to the country.
Following consultations with the Bank, Government has engaged the consulting
engineering firm, SEMES, of Singapore to study the vehicle emissions and related
legislation in the country and to develop guidelines and prepare draft legislation for



32
effective implementation of the control measures identified under the study. The study is
expected to start in November 1995 and will involve about four man-months.
6.6 Routine Maintenance
The maintenance section of the MOW has been reorganised into three sections of three
administrative districts each headed by an engineer and under the overall responsibility of a
principal engineer. Qualified technicians with experience in maintenance and rehabilitation
works are attached to each of these sections.
The system of administrative units wherein the engineer in charge was responsible for both
the roads and the buildings within a given geographical area has been discontinued to
encourage specialisation on the part of the staff concerned. Government has also made a
major change in its maintenance policy in that the direct labour is mostly involved in the
routine maintenance aspects whereas periodic maintenance is carried out through force
account. Additional road equipment were acquired under the project to modernize the
maintenance fleet and enhance the capacity of these newly created units.
6.7 Consultancy Services
The project provided for the procurement of consultancy services for the supervision of
the rehabilitation works and for routine maintenance (54 man-months) as well as for traffic
management and emission control.(21 man-months).Consultants were appointed for the
supervision of the works as already pointed out at Para.5.2 above. However, the
provisions for the routine maintenance and resurfacing works were not used as the
reorganisation of the maintenance units and the recruitment of additional qualified staff
increased the capacity of the Implementation Agency in these fields.  The tender
documents for the resurfacing works were p repared and evaluated and the field
operations supervised by the borrower's staff with the agreement of the Bank.
Further the services of the traffic management and environmental experts were reduced to
3 and 2 man-months respectively. It must, however, be noted that an additional four
man-months will be used for the emission control study as explained at Para. 6.5.
6.8 Training.
A time bound training program was submitted to the Bank as per the covenants of the
Loan Agreement. However, the Loan funds were not directly used for this component.
The training of the middle and higher management was mostly carried out through
bilateral aid programs with the Goverments of France and Japan. Special training courses
for the supervisory staff in the field were designed and implemented by the engineering
cadre with the assistance of other relevant Departments (Finance, State Law Office, etc).
It must also be noted that the Government has committed itself to provide adequate
training opportunities at all levels of the Public Sector, including the Highways sector,in an



33
effort to improve its services. The Mauritius Institute of Productivity and Management
(MIPAM) which will cater for these training needs will be operational early next year.
7. KEY LESSONS
The key lessons learnt during the project preparation and implementation are as follows:
(i) The implementation schedule proposed during appraisal should be more realistic. This
schedule should be reviewed prior to the signature of the Loan Agreement in case it is
adversely affected by unforeseen events.
(ii) The procedures for approval of tender documents should be clearly defined at
appraisal stage.
(iii) Technical assistance should be properly assessed and have clear objectives
(iv) Those components of the project involving legislation and input from other Ministries
should be more precisely detailed at the start of the project.
(v) The procedure for contract awards by the Bank should be clearly established in order
to minimize delays.Any queries should be sorted out through direct discussion rather than
protracted correspondence.









rMAG ING
Report No:       15489
Type: I CE



