Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19449
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN HOUSEHOLD ENERGY Project
(Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
June 17, 1999
Energy Team
Infrastructure Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Meticais (MT)
(Annual average)
Year                        US$1.00 = MT.
1989                                794
1990                                932
1991                              1,450
1992                              2,433
1993                              3,723
1994                              5,918
1995                              8,890
1996                             11,294
1997                             11,546
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA               Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BDM                 Banco de Mocambique
BEU                 Biomass Energy Unit
BPD                 Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DNE                 Direccao Nacional de Energia
EDM                 Electricidade de Moanambique
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
GOM                 Government of Mozambique
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
LPG                 Liquefied Petroleum Gas
Mocacor             Distribuidora de Combustiveis, S.A.R.L.
MIE                 Ministry of Industry and Energy
MMRE                Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
NDF                 Nordic Development Fund
PETROMOC            Empresa Nacional de Petroleos de Mocambique
Prolec              Urban Electrification Program
RPTES               Regional Program for Traditional Energy Sector
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President             :     Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director           :     Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager             :     Mr. Mark Tomlinson
Task Manager               :     Ms. Yuriko Sakairi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...................................................................                                   i - Viii
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Sector Context .......................................................1
B. Project Objectives .......................................................2
C. Achievement of Objectives .......................................................3
D. Summary of Project Implementation .......................................................6
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................................             11
F. Project Sustainability ......................................................                          12
G. Bank Performance ......................................................                               13
H. Borrower Performance ......................................................                           15
I. Assessment of Outcome ......................................................                          16
J. Future Operations ......................................................                              17
K. Key Lessons ......................................................                                     17
Annex 1: Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................ 19
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table I    Summary of Assessments .26
Table 2    Related Bank Credits .28
Table 3   Project Timetable .28
Table 4    Credit Disbursements .29
Table 5            Key Indicators for Project Implementation.                                 30-33
Table 6            Key Indicators for Project Operation .34
Table 7            Studies Included in Project.                                                                 35-40
Table 8a  Project Cost .41
Table 8b  Project Financing .42
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .43
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants .44
Table I I          Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .46
Table 12   Bank Resources: Staff Input .46
Table 13   Bank Resources: Missions .47
APPENDICES
A:   ICR Mission Aide-Memoires ..........................                                                                 48-56
B:    Borrower's Contribution ..........................                                                                  57-72
C:   Co-financier's Comments ..........................                                                                      73
Map:  IBRD 29786
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
Preface
1           This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Urban
Household Energy Project, for which a Credit of SDR 17.1 million (US$22 million
equivalent) to the People's Republic of Mozambique was approved on June 8, 1989 and
signed on September 28, 1989. The Credit became effective on April 27, 1990. The
Credit was closed on April 30, 1998 after two extensions of the closing date. Last credit
disbursement took place on September 9, 1998 and US$2.3 million not disbursed was
canceled. Co-financing amnounting to US$16 million equivalent was provided by NDF
and BADEA.
2.          The ICR was prepared by Yuriko Sakairi, Economist, (AFTG1), Eric
Daffern, Principal Economist/Financial Analyst, (EMTOG), and Assefa Telahun, Power
Engineer, (AFTG1). It was reviewed by Messrs. Mark Tomlinson, Sector Manager,
(AFTGI), Boris Utria, Sr. Economist, (AFTG1) and Joel Maweni, Sr. Financial Analyst,
(AFTG1). The report was processed by Lily Wong, Team Assistant, (AFTG1).
3.          The preparation of the ICR began in February 1998 followed by a mission
carried out by Yuriko Sakairi and Sunil Mathrani in April-May 1998 (Appendix A:
Implementation Completion Missions). The ICR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report,
the credit and project agreements, supervision reports, correspondence with the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, and interviews with staff of the Borrower. The Borrower's
contribution on the ICR is attached, along with comments received from the co-financier.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.          The Urban Household Energy Project (UHEP) was prepared during 1987-88
in the midst of an armed conflict that showed little prospect of ending. The main urban
centers were practically 'cut off from the surrounding regions and suffered a massive inflow
of refugees fleeing the fighting. This resulted in increased levels of biomass consumption
and rapid deforestation of the areas closest to the cities because of the difficulty of obtaining
biomass fuels from points further away. Disruption of transport routes made the supply of
coal and petroleum products erratic. Moreover, electricity supply suffered frequent cuts
caused by sabotage of power networks. A peace agreement was reached in 1992 and during
1993 it became clear that peace would prevail. Accordingly, the attention of the Government
of Mozambique (GOM) and the Bank slowly shifted from ensuring survival to reforming the
sector (paras. 2-3).
Project Objectives and Components
ii.         The physical objective of the project was to bring low-cost commercial fuels
to a large number of households in urban areas in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The
institutional development objective was to strengthen the government agencies and energy
supply companies, managerially, operationally and financially. The broader project
objectives were to slow down deforestation around urban areas, to improve air quality, to
alleviate poverty through lowering the cost of fuel, to provide for testing of improved energy
efficiency and management measures, to develop the use of indigenous natural resources, to
encourage development of local institutions and provide opportunities for local industries
(para 4).
iii.        To achieve the physical objectives the project consisted of: (a) power
distribution system rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension in Maputo and eight other
important cities; (b) commercial loans for house wiring and connection of 40,000 urban
households to the power distribution system (Prolec program); (c) provision of households
with about 50,000 electric stoves, 60,000 kerosene stoves, 80,000 kerosene lamps, 200,000
electric bulbs and a number of electric fans and solar panels for public buildings, as part of an
energy efficiency program; (d) provision of coal stoves to about 50,000 households in
Maputo, Beira and Tete and other areas with access to coal; (e) reinforcement of kerosene
and LPG storage and distribution facilities in Maputo and five other cities; (f) rehabilitation
of the cable factory; and (g) improvements in efficiency of woodfuel utilization through



- ii -
development of improved charcoal production methods, improved wood stoves and charcoal
stoves, and a woodfuel program for maintenance of plantations and forest inventory. The
project also included commodity aid finance of fuels required to be imported during the 5-6
years duration of the project (about 47,000 tons of coal, 75,000 tons of kerosene and 40,000
tons of LPG), (paras. 5 and 7).
iv.         To achieve the institutional development objective the project included the
establishing of a biomass energy unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, and technical assistance
to Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM), Empresa Nacional de Petroleos de Mocambique
(PETROMOC) and Distribuidora de Combustiveis, S.A.R.L. (Mocacor) and to DNE to
support project coordination and implementation, and woodfuel and coal programs.
Additionally, standard IDA covenants in the credit and project agreements were intended to
introduce financial discipline in the energy sector (para. 6).
v.          The project was restructured in 1994 following a project mid-term review
carried out in late 1992 at about the same time as the peace accord was signed. It also
included a component to repair the damage inflicted to the northern power system by a
cyclone in 1994 (paras. 8 and 9).
vi.         The project objectives were relevant to the conditions prevailing in
Mozambique at the time of appraisal and during the early years of project implementation
and were congruent with both the GOM objectives and IDA's policy for the energy sector.
However, support of individual household connections through a loan program was probably
ill-conceived because of its administrative complexity. With the coming of peace in 1992,
the policy and reform agenda of Mozambique developed far beyond that envisaged at
appraisal, and at the same time IDA policy for the energy/power sector began to shift towards
a new paradigm -- enhanced private sector participation and less involvement of the
government in the commercial functions of the energy/power sector, and government in
charge of policy making and regulation functions. In view of this, the restructured project
also supported energy sector reforms (para. 10).
Implementation Experience and Results
vii.        The physical objectives of the project were partially achieved. The Prolec
program was to provide commercial loans to households for house-wiring and connection to
the distribution network, but did not perform as originally expected. Only about 500
households benefited from loans, 2,500 new customers were connected and 1,300 existing
customers were switched over to the grid extended under the Credit. The Prolec target had to
be reduced from 40,000 to 4,000 connections during the mid-term review. However, the
rehabilitation and reinforcement of the power distribution system helped EDM deliver a large
number of connections (about 60,000) that made up for the meager achievements of the
Prolec program. Under the off-grid electrification project, 400 households were electrified
and another 400 households will be electrified shortly. Also, about 5,000 prepayment
electricity meters were installed under the project and another 15,000 meters are under



- 111 -
installation. Kerosene supply increased by 80 percent since 1993 and is now sufficient to
supply 250,000 additional households. LPG usage for households fell in the early 1 990s but
has now recovered, surpassed the earlier usage level, and it is projected to increase sharply in
the short-tern. Cost of imported LPG by rail from Johannesburg fell by 20 percent as a
result of competition in imports (para. 11).
viii.       The institutional objectives of the project were substantially achieved. The
project laid the foundations for broader reforms in the energy sector to the point that the
achievements in the electric and petroleum sub-sectors have placed the Mozambican energy
sector among the most reformed and open sectors in Africa (para. 12).
ix.         EDM, PETROMOC and Mocacor are now in a more sustainable financial
position than they were in the past ten years, and none of them can rely anymore on
monopoly status. EDM showed its strongest ever financial position in 1998. Its three-year
performance contract, agreed with GOM in 1997, is an important step towards achieving
better operational and financial performance. Results can be judged by the reduced number
of black outs compared to ten years ago. PETROMOC is now profitable, and is competing
with major companies. Mocacor has diversified its business, and its non-LPG business is
growing strongly. It is already succeeding as a gasoline marketer and as a retailer of
appliances and LPG bottles (paras. 13-16).
x.          The reforms in the energy sector have been satisfactory. The technical
assistance provided by the project (paras. 31-33) succeeded in designing and implementing
sector reforms. Legislation was enacted reforming both the power and petroleum sub-
sectors. The elimination of EDM's monopoly over nationwide power supply was a major
breakthrough and it has provided the basis for new decentralized initiatives to electrify small
towns. EDM still has national electricity tariffs but the Government now realizes that tariffs
based on cost recovery are essential for increasing access to electricity in Mozambique. Oil
procurement has been made more cost-effective and transparent and the financing of imports
has been rationalized. Specifications of petroleum products have been made compatible with
the competitive supply sources and have resulted in lower costs. The deregulation of
petroleum products distribution has attracted new distributors and made existing distributors
invest in the upgrading of their facilities (para. 17). Also the first step towards privatization
of PETROMOC, its conversion into a limited liability company governed by commercial
law, was undertaken under the project.
xi.         The broader project objectives were achieved, partly because of the project,
but also as a result of the return to peace conditions. Significant progress can be seen in
terms of better air quality, low prices of commercial energy, improved energy efficiency and
other factors. For example, the significant increase in the use of commercial fuels has
replaced the use of large quantities of polluting woodfuels. Commercial energy prices for
kerosene and for woodfuels have fallen in real terms. Electricity prices have risen. Pressure
on the woodlands around the major cities has ceased as large numbers of people have
returned to the rural areas after the ending of the armed conflict. Also, local industry is being



- iv -
reinvigorated. For example, the cable factory was restored with help from the project and
began to operate in a competitive manner (para. 19).
xii.        Implementation organization. Overall project co-ordination was in the hands
of the Direccao Nacional de Energia (DNE) with support from the Ministry of Mineral
Resources and Energy (MMRE). Project execution was spread among many institutions.
For the power sub-sector components: EDM, Prolec unit, DNE, Interelectra, with support
from Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD); for the petroleum sub-sector components:
PETROMOC, DNE, Mo,acor (mainly LPG); for the biomass components: Ministry of
Agriculture; and other components: DNE. The complex project implementation
arrangements and the diffusion of responsibilities made it very hard for DNE to exercise
authority to ensure timely implementation of the project (para. 20).
xiii.       Implementation time. Project implementation took nine years from June
1989 (Board approval date) to April 1998 (project completion date), i.e. 22 months longer
than appraisal estimate. The physical components of the project financed by IDA were
completed by April 1998, and the components financed by the Nordic Development Fund
(NDF) and Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) were to be completed
only by end-1998 (see para. 50). BADEA funded the power system strengthening in Maputo,
Beira and a number of other towns, and NDF financed the power system strengthening and
the rehabilitation of the cable factory (paras. 22-30).
xiv.        Credit disbursement and closing date. Credit disbursement was very slow
during the early years of project implementation. Only US$6.6 million (44.6 percent of
appraisal estimate) was disbursed until 1993, four years after credit approval. This was
caused by long delays in compliance with conditions of effectiveness and credit
disbursement. Later, weak banking sector and cumbersome and lengthy Government review
and approval of procurement of goods and recruitment of consultants delayed credit
disbursement further. In addition to the 6 months allowed between estimated completion
date and Credit closing date, IDA had to extend the closing date twice for a total of 16
months to allow for completion of the project. Thus, the project required 22 more months to
complete than originally estimated at appraisal. Last credit disbursement took place on
September 9, 1998 and US$2.3 million was canceled (para. 35).
xv.         Project cost andfinancing. The actual project cost is estimated to be
US$41.9 million or 16 percent less than the US$49.3 million estimated at appraisal,
excluding interest during construction and fuel imports. IDA financed US$20.4 million and
catalyzed co-financing from BADEA (US$8.0 million), NDF (US$5.4 million) and
Mozambican companies (US$2.9 million). The GOM financed US$5.3 million. No
information is available about the actual cost of imported fuel financed by parallel financing
by SIDA, NORAD and IDA. A co-financing pledge of US$3.0 million by the Government
of Denmark did not materialize (paras. 36-37).



- v -
xvi.        Project economic performance. It was not possible to obtain actual data to
make an ex-post recalculation of the project ERR. However, based on very conservative
assumptions this ICR has calculated an ex-post ERR of 11 percent on the investment in the
small town electrification program (para. 38), a small, but important component in terms of
introducing cost-based tariffs and piloting an alternative mechanism for increasing access to
electricity. Further, it is important to note that in the re-estimation of the ERR, the benefits
are based on the current tariff and not the willingness to pay which, if used, could yield a
significantly higher ERR.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
xvii.       Factors Outside Government Control. The armed conflict was the major
factor affecting project implementation during years 1989-92. Later, project implementation
was affected by the peace settlement in 1992, because the project had to be restructured to
adapt it to a peace scenario. Also, the 1994 cyclone in northern Mozambique required
making changes in the project (para. 39).
xviii.      Factors subject to Government Control. For many years GOM failed to meet
its obligations related to the financial position of EDM and PETROMOC. The GOM was
tepid in timely approving electricity tariff increases to keep pace with inflation and foreign
exchange variations and frequently deferred tariff increases for political reasons. This
affected the finances of EDM negatively. Further, the GOM (Ministry of Finance) limited
the financial autonomy of EDM in the three-year performance contract agreed in 1997.
Regarding PETROMOC, the GOM has never compensated it for the foreign exchange losses
on oil imports caused by the initial pricing system imposed by GOM, and delayed proposals
for the commercialization and restructuring of PETROMOC (para. 41).
xix.        Factors subject to control by the implementing agencies. EDM did not
demonstrate commitment to the main project goal of increasing urban household
electrification through Prolec. Until early 1997 it did not pay attention to financial
management and production of meaningful and reliable financial data, despite the ample
support given by resident experts and consulting firms. Only towards the end of the project,
the performance contract agreed in 1997 with the GOM moved EDM to prepare a medium-
term investment plan and assess its financial feasibility. Mocacor made little effort to
promote the use of LPG, even after adequate bulk supplies were assured, because price
controls left small profitability margins (paras. 43-45).
Project Sustainability
xx.         Sustainability of the project is uncertain. Significant achievements have
been made in terms of designing and implementing reforms for sustainable sector operations
and in terms of institutionalizing financial and operational performance standards for the key
sector entities (EDM, PETROMOC and Mocacor). With regard to reforms, the legal
framework for a competitive electricity market has been created, need for cost-based tariffs



- vi -
and for private sector participation has been recognized through the small scale rural
electrification program, and the initial steps have been taken towards creating a modem
regulatory system. In the petroleum sub-sector, PETROMOC is now operating in a
commercial and competitive manner' and Mocacor is competing successfully in the retail
market. With respect to financial and operational performance standards, EDM is
maintaining its power stations in accordance with accepted utility standards. The electricity
prepayment meters, financed under the project, have proved to be a good and reliable option
for reducing billing, collection costs and accounts receivable. EDM is conducting its
operations so as to meet the requirements of its performance contract and reduced its
operating losses substantially in 1998. However, because the institutional and sector reforms
came only towards the end of the project's life and their implementation remain to be
completed, the environment for viable sector operations can only be considered fragile, hence
the "uncertain" rating for sustainability2.
Bank Performance
xxi.          Project design, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory 3. The project
design proved to be too complex. Many components (power, petroleum, coal, biomass,
technical assistance), entities (EDM, Prolec, PETROMOC, Mocacor, BEU, DNE), and two
co-financiers (NDF, BADEA) were involved in project implementation. The conditionality
included in the IDA credit was not realistic. IDA did not realize that the poor quality and
quantity of critical financial information available in EDM, compounded with the low
commitment of GOM to increase electricity tariffs, could not help EDM prepare the financial
viability plan that was a condition of credit disbursement (paras. 47-49).
xxii.          Overall, supervision was unsatisfactory4, although it was satisfactory during
the first and last few years of implementation. In the period 1993-1995 supervision was lax
and the project drifted because two task managers lasted very short periods and the skill mix
was not appropriate. But since 1995 supervision improved significantly with continuity in
task management and an appropriate staff skill mix (paras. 50-52).
Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The reforms introduced in the petroleum sector, mainly the removal
of PETROMOC's import monopoly and price setting mechanism eased PETROMOC from a heavy financial
burden with product imports and allowed a sustainable improvement of its financial results."
(See section 5 of Appendix B).
2 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The policy measures and market reforms introduced in the
petroleum and electricity sectors are sustainable and will develop further in line with the objectives of
increasing access to modem forms of energy, in a safe and efficient manner to increased parts of the
country." (See section 5 of Appendix B).
Borrower's input to the ICR states that "Performance by the Bank has been satisfactory but the supervision
during the initial years of project implementation was not satisfactory." (See section 4 of Appendix B).
4 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "Performance by the Bank has been satisfactory but the supervision
during the initial years of project implementation was not satisfactory." (See section 4 of Appendix B).



- vii -
Borrower Performance
xxiii.       Overall borrower performance can be considered unsatisfactory, although
several important accomplishments were made. On the positive side, the GOM supported
energy sector reforms. BEU implemented the biomass components in a highly satisfactory
manner. It made judicious use of limited expatriate technical assistance and did not become
over-dependent on IDA funding for local operational expenses. PETROMOC executed the
kerosene distribution component satisfactorily, but after a long delay. PETROMOC focused
primarily on oil supply and oil procurement issues rather than on product marketing and
distribution. PETROMOC is now operating well in a competitive environment without input
from foreign experts. On the negative side, the Ministry of Finance was not proactive on
matters affecting financial viability of the entities involved in this IDA project. DNE did not
play a dynamic role in reorienting the project to respond to changing priorities. Mocacor did
not succeed in promoting LPG sales and expanding the market timely. EDM did not pay
much attention to the UHEP project. It was understandably preoccupied with day to day
operations, dealing with sabotage on its power system and trying to keep the power service
on. Financial viability was an unfamiliar concept for EDM. Only towards the end of the
project did EDM's performance improve (paras. 53-59).
Assessment of Outcome
xxiv.        Overall project outcome is considered unsatisfactory5. This is because its
physical objectives were only partially achieved, institutional and policy reform objectives
were substantially achieved only toward the end of the project, and sustainability of the gains
remains uncertain. Further, while the original project objective of bringing low-cost
commercial fuels to a large number of urban households was broadly achieved, this was
partly because of the project, but also because of the return to peace conditions which
resulted in an increased supply of these fuels. The outcome of the project's physical
components was mixed and the failure to implement the Prolec component and the dropping
of the coal pilot component tend to overshadow other achievements. On the positive side
impressive gains were made in sector reforms for both the electricity and petroleum sub-
sectors and in institutionalizing financial and operational performance standards for the key
sector entities. A follow-up electrification project will continue to support the sector reform.
Nevertheless, because the reforms came only towards the end of the project life and their
sustainability remains uncertain, the overall project outcome is considered unsatisfactory.
Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The general outcome of the project is satisfactory although some
targets set initially were not achieved." .(See section 5 of Appendix B).
Co-financier's comments state that "If the outcome is compared to the restructured project (as of 1994),
the project, in our opinion, should be regarded as 'satisfactory'." (See Appendix C).



- viii -
Future Operation
xxv.        Although the GOM has not submitted to IDA, a formal plan for future
operation of the project, experience with this project suggests that the GOM has the capacity
to develop and sustain a focussed energy sector strategy to meet the challenges of providing
wider access to energy needs to rural and suburban population, including efficient utilization
of biomass fuels (paras. 61-62). Further, both EDM and PETROMOC have developed and
are implementing utility operational standards which should help to reduce uncertainty about
the sustainability of the investments made under the project.
Key Lessons Learned
xxvi.       The following lessons can be offered (para. 63):
* Projects should be designed with a simple institutional organization and few components.
A complex multi component project implemented through many agencies risks to spread
responsibilities, dilutes 'ownership' of the project among agencies, and makes project
coordination very difficult.
* When the macroeconomic and political scenario in which a project was appraised
experiences profound changes during project execution, a radical project redesign/re-
appraisal may be required proactively as soon as it is clear that the changes are
permanent. A mere piecemeal modification of the project components should be avoided.
+ Standard financial performance covenants in Loan/Credit Agreements are meaningless if
the underlying performance data is unavailable. Rather than requiring compliance with
rate of return or other complex financial covenants difficult to monitor and sometimes
unfamiliar for the incumbent entity, it is preferable to require compliance with simpler
and less ambitious indicators, easy to monitor but necessary to achieve basic financial
survival of the entity.
* By implementing natural resource management including cash generating activities to the
community, villagers get incentives to protect natural resources and to utilize the
resources in a cost effective and sustainable manner.
* With timely and flexible intervention, it is possible to achieve some measure of success,
even if initially the project has been poorly designed and managed.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN HOUSEHOLD ENERGY PROJECT
(Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background and Sector Context
1.          Mozambique has a population of about 16.9 million with a per capita income
of US$210, i.e. one of the poorest countries of the world. It is well endowed with primary
energy resources, particularly hydroelectricity, natural gas and coal. Yet, total commercial
energy consumption is extremely low, 40 kgoe per capita, and hardly 20% of the urban
population and virtually none of the rural population have access to electricity.
2.          The Urban Household Energy Project (UHEP) was the second lending
operation of IDA in the energy sector of Mozambique. It was prepared during 1987-88 in the
midst of an armed conflict that showed little prospect of ending. The main urban centers
were practically 'cut off' from their surrounding regions and suffered a massive inflow of
refugees fleeing the fighting. This resulted in increased levels of biomass consumption and
rapid deforestation of the areas closest to the cities because of the difficulty of obtaining
biomass fuels from points further away. Disruption of transport routes made the supply of
coal and petroleum products erratic. Moreover, electricity supply suffered frequent cuts
caused by sabotage of power networks. The combined supply scarcity and demand pressure
had doubled the economic cost of fuelwood, charcoal, kerosene, LPG and electricity.
Consequently, the project was intended to diminish constraints on the urban residents' energy
supply and to reduce the impact of war on the low income population.
3.          A peace agreement was reached in 1992 and during 1993 it became clear that
peace would prevail. Accordingly, the attention of the Government of Mozambique (GOM)
and the Bank slowly shifted from ensuring survival to reform: policy, institutional, economic
and financial. The project sought to respond to these evolving needs of the country.



-2 -
B. Project Objectives
Statement of Objectives
4.          According to the Staff Appraisal Report, the main development objective of
the project was to bring low-cost commercial fuels to a large number of households in urban
areas in an efficient and cost-effective manner. A second major objective was to strengthen
the government agencies and energy supply companies, managerially, operationally and
financially. The broader project objectives were to slow down deforestation around urban
areas, to improve air quality, to alleviate poverty through lowering the cost of fuel, to provide
for testing of improved energy efficiency and management measures, to develop the use of
indigenous natural resources, to encourage development of local institutions and provide
opportunities for local industries, and to reduce demand on the limited transport capacity.
Project Description
5.          The original physical components of the project consisted of: (a) power
distribution system rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension in Maputo and eight other
important cities; (b) commercial loans for house wiring and connection of 40,000 urban
houses to the power distribution system; (c) provision of households with about 50,000
electric stoves, 60,000 kerosene stoves, 80,000 kerosene lamps, 200,000 electric bulbs and a
number of electric fans and solar panels for public buildings, as part of an energy efficiency
program; (d) provision of coal stoves to about 50,000 households in Maputo, Beira and Tete
and other areas with access to coal; (e) reinforcement of kerosene and LPG storage and
distribution facilities in Maputo and five other cities; (f) rehabilitation of the cable factory;
and (g) improvements in efficiency of woodfuel utilization through development of improved
charcoal production methods, improved wood and charcoal stoves, and a woodfuel program
for maintenance of plantations and forest inventory.
6.          The institutional development component of the project included the
establishing of a biomass energy unit in the Ministry of Agriculture, and technical assistance
to Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM), Empresa Nacional de Petroleos de Mocambique
(PETROMOC) and Distribuidora de Combustiveis, S.A.R.L. (Mocacor) and to DNE to
support the project coordination and implementation and the woodfuel and coal programs.
Additionally, IDA covenants contained in the credit and project agreements were intended to
introduce financial discipline in the energy sector.
7.          The project also included commodity aid finance of fuels required to be
imported during the 5-6 years duration of the project (about 47,000 tons of coal, 75,000 tons
of kerosene and 40,000 tons of LPG).
8.          The project was restructured in 1994. The project restructuring was done
following a project mid-term review carried out in late 1992 when the armed conflict was
resolved. The original project objectives did not change but priorities changed and the
project components were modified (para. 24).



- 3 -
9.          The project was to be coordinated by the Ministry of Industry and Energy
(MIE) and executed by EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor and a number of small Mozambique
enterprises. In 1994, the energy functions -- and overall project coordination -- were
transferred to the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MMRE).
Evaluation of Objectives
10.        The project objectives were relevant to the conditions prevailing in
Mozambique at the time of project appraisal, although support for individual household
connections through a loan program was probably ill-conceived. They were also congruent
with the GOM objectives and the IDA policy for the energy sector valid at time of appraisal
and during the early years of project implementation (OMS 3.72 and OMS 3.78 of 1978
fostered a vertically integrated, centrally planned, state-owned power sub-sector, and private
participation in the petroleum and gas sub-sector). With the coming of peace in 1992, the
policy and reform agenda of Mozambique developed far beyond that envisaged at appraisal.
Major changes in the Mozambican macroeconomic and political environment took place
mid-way through the project. At the same time IDA policy for the energy/power sector
shifted towards a new paradigm placing emphasis on enhanced private sector participation
and less involvement of governments in the commercial functions of the energy/power
sector, and reserving for governments the policy making and regulation functions.
C. Achievement of Objectives
11.         The physical objectives of the project were partially achieved. The target of
40,000 new connections set to the Prolec household electrification program was not met. The
Prolec program provided commercial loans to the households for house-wiring and
connection, but did not perform as expected. About 4,300 households were connected to the
grid extended under the Prolec program: About 500 households benefited from loans, 2,500
new customers were connected and 1,300 existing customers were switched over to the
Prolec grid. Under the off-grid electrification project, 400 households were electrified and
another 400 households will be electrified shortly. However, the rehabilitation and
reinforcement of the power distribution system helped EDM deliver a large number of
connections that made up for the meager achievements of the Prolec program. As a result,
over the past decade EDM increased access to electricity to about 60,000 new residential
consumers in the power sub-sector as a whole. This was a 50 percent increase in the number
of connections made over the previous decade and one of the highest connection rates in
Africa. Also, about 5,000 prepayment electricity meters were installed under the project and
another 15,000 meters are under installation. Regarding fuels, kerosene usage increased by
80 percent since 1993 due to better procurement methods, better cooperation on imports, and
additional fuel distribution equipment supplied under the project. The higher availability of
kerosene is now sufficient to supply 250,000 additional households. LPG usage for
households fell in the early 1990s but has now recovered, surpassed the earlier usage level,
and it is projected to increase sharply in the short-term. Cost of imported LPG by rail from
Johannesburg fell by 20 percent as a result of competition in imports. New long-term
contracts have locked in this lower price.



- 4 -
12.         The institutional objectives of the project were substantially achieved. The
project laid the foundations for broader reforms in the energy sector to the point that the
achievements in the electric and petroleum sub-sectors have placed the Mozambican energy
sector among the most reformed and open sectors in Africa. The project achievement in this
front are highlighted below.
(a)   In the power sub-sector:
* The Electricity Law passed by Parliament in 1997 eliminated monopoly of EDM in
generation transmission and distribution. Private companies can now compete with
EDM.
*  The electricity tariffs were changed to a simpler system.
*  Cost recovery based tariffs have been set for off-grid electricity systems.
a  The assets and liabilities of EDM have been defined. EDM has started to operate as a
commercial entity.
•  The accounting, billing and collection systems of the sector were decentralized and
reformed.
*  The pilot program testing prepayment electricity meter proved to be cost effective, to
reduce non-technical losses substantially and to justify further investment in this type of
meters.
• The basic house wiring designs and structural standards were redefined to accommodate
typical African shanty town and adobe houses.
(b)   In the petroleum sub-sector:
*  The petroleum market is largely liberalized. Following a 1997 Petroleum Decree the
GOM and the oil marketing companies agreed to set up a jointly owned, private non-
profit, oil import company to relieve PETROMOC of the financial burden and risk of
being the sole importer. Once the depth of the petroleum market has increased
sufficiently (at least twice its present size), petroleum imports would be fully liberalized.
*  PETROMOC was converted to a limited liability company ruled by the commercial law.
* PETROMOC and Mo,acor are competing with international companies and surviving
without subsidies.



-5 -
13.         EDM, PETROMOC and Mocacor are now in a more sustainable financial
position than they were in the past ten years, and none of them can rely anymore on a
monopoly position. EDM recorded its strongest ever financial position in 1998. Its
performance contract is an important step towards achieving better operational and financial
performance. Results can be judged by the reduced black outs compared to those of ten years
ago. PETROMOC is profitable, and is competing against major companies. The survival of
PETROMOC in a competitive enterprise environment can be related to its management
improvements. Mocacor has diversified its business, and its non-LPG business is growing
strongly. It is already succeeding as a gasoline marketer and as a retailer of appliances and
LPG bottles.
14.         EDMperformance contract has been successful. EDM is now operating
under a three-year performance contract agreed in 1997, aimed at making it financially
viable. EDM had consistently made losses over the past decade because of GOM's
reluctance to authorize tariff increases to compensate in a timely manner for high inflation
and a rapidly depreciating currency. Until 1997, EDM did not service any of its debt and its
unbilled energy had decreased slightly to a still high and unacceptable 30 percent. Billing
and collection accounts had been unreliable for auditing by external auditors, thus making
financial performance monitoring very difficult. However, over the past two years EDM has
undertaken a positive campaign to improve accounting, collections and cut non-technical
energy losses. The prepayment electricity meters financed under the project are also
contributing to this effort. Also, EDM should be able to meet its debt service obligations and
clear the backlog of overdue debt service, provided the present weighted average retail tariff
of US¢7.5/kWh is maintained in real terms.
15.         PETROMOC performance was mixed. Its finances have deteriorated from
1992, mainly because of delays by GOM in authorizing increases in domestic petroleum
product prices to compensate for currency devaluation. Consequently, PETROMOC made
losses from 1993-95 and its internal cash generation was negative. However, sectoral
reforms introduced under the project (and supported also by structural adjustment funding)
have started to have a positive impact on PETROMOC's operational and financial
performance since 1997. A more responsive pricing mechanism and a more equitable
distribution of import costs and exchange risks amongst the oil distributors have helped to
raise its gross margins and profitability. PETROMOC distribution is now operating in a
competitive market on a financially sustainable basis.
16.         Mo!acor performance has improved. Operations of Mocacor are
significantly smaller than those of the other energy companies. It remains small and sensitive
to the fortunes of the LPG business. It has diversified well its scope of activities by adding to
it the supply of equipment, maintenance services and gasoline marketing through a sister
company, and expanded its supply outlets.
17.         Reforms in the energy sector have been satisfactory. The technical
assistance provided by the project has been successful in designing and implementing sector
reforms. Sector policies have improved considerably by enacting legislation reforming both



- 6 -
the petroleum and the power sub-sectors. Oil procurement has been made more cost-
effective and transparent and the financing of imports has been rationalized. Specifications
of petroleum products have been made compatible with the competitive supply sources and
have resulted in lower costs. The deregulation of petroleum products distribution has
attracted new distributors and made existing distributors invest in the upgrading of their
facilities. This investment, among the highest in the African continent, has been achieved
with some of the lowest prices and low profit margins. The elimination of EDM's monopoly
over nationwide power supply was a major breakthrough and it has provided the basis for
new decentralized initiatives to electrify small towns. EDM still has national electricity
tariffs, but the Government now realizes that tariffs based on cost recovery and private sector
involvement in the sub-sector are essential for increasing access to electricity.
18.         The community-managed woodfuels supply pilot project was successfuL
The biomass components of the project met project objectives fully as demonstrated by the
successful and significant development in institutional capacity in both the Biomass Energy
Unit (BEU, the project implementing agency) and the University. Community participation
in cash generation activities has demonstrated to be a cost effective and sustainable way of
doing natural resource management instead of plantation. It has also proved that community
participation is of paramount importance for rural development. Moreover, the capacity of
the National Directorate of Energy (DNE) for doing energy policy and planning was
strengthened by carrying out a staff training program, providing technical assistance, and
setting up a household energy data base.
19.         The broader project objectives were met, partly because of the project, but
also, because of the return to peace conditions. Although comprehensive data is not
available to support this judgement fully, significant progress can be seen in terms of better
air quality, low prices of commercial energy, improved energy efficiency and other factors.
For example, the significant increase in the use of commercial fuels has replaced the use of
large quantities of polluting woodfuels. Commercial energy prices for kerosene and for
woodfuels have fallen in real terms. Electricity prices have risen. Pressure on the woodlands
around the major cities has ceased as large number of people have returned to the rural areas
after the ending of the armed conflict. Also, local industry is being reinvigorated. For
example, the cable factory was restored with help from the project and began to operate in a
competitive manner.
D. Summary of Project Implementation
Implementation Organization
20.         Overall co-ordination was in the hands of DNE with political support from the
MMRE. The responsibilities for implementing the project components were assigned as
indicated below. In particular, the responsibility for implementing the power sub-sector
components was spread among several entities because EDM claimed to be unable to
implement all components.



- 7 -
(a) Power sub-sector components: EDM, Prolec unit, DNE, Interelectra, with support from
BPD and UCPI;
(b) Petroleum sub-sector components: PETROMOC, DNE, Mocacor (mainly LPG);
(c) Biomass sub-sector components: BEU (Ministry of Agriculture); and
(d) Other components: DNE.
21.         The complex project implementation arrangements and the diffusion of
responsibility made it very hard for DNE to ensure timely implementation, even though these
arrangements had been devised by DNE itself. Since DNE could not exercise authority over
the implementing agencies like EDM, DNE played only a monitoring and coordination role
in project implementation.
Implementation Record (Supported by Annex 1)
22.         Project implementation took nine years from June 1989 (Board approval date)
to April 1998 (project completion date), i.e. 22 months longer than appraisal estimate.
Meeting the effectiveness conditions took ten months because of the then slow
bureaucratic/legal processing of credit approval in Mozambique. Moreover, meeting the
conditions of credit disbursement was significantly delayed by EDM and PETROMOC.
EDM had to implement a satisfactory tariff increase in the second half of 1989 and submit to
IDA a satisfactory financial restructuring plan, and a satisfactory action plan for recovering
arrears and accounts receivable. Similarly, PETROMOC and Mocacor had to also submit to
IDA a satisfactory action plan for recovering arrears and accounts receivable. In fact EDM
was able to present a plan for achieving financial viability only after the cessation of
hostilities permitted a valuation of its assets. This meant a prolonged delay in meeting the
condition for disbursement.
23.         Project mid-term review. The project was restructured in 1994 following a
project mid-term review carried out in late 1992 at about the same time as the peace accord
was signed. The review was conducted jointly with other donors. This mid-term review did
not lead to a fundamental reevaluation of the project design. The reasons for the poor
performance of the Prolec household electrification component -- which was to be supported
by commercial loans for house-wiring and connection -- were examined, but the mid-term
review mission failed to identify that EDM had no intention to support the implementation of
the Prolec component Instead the mid-term review mission accepted EDM and DNE
assurances that they would do their part. EDM was to implement a wider connections
program using mostly the same system reinforcement program that IDA and other donors
were financing. Also, with strong support by EDM, agreements were reached (but not kept)
on inter-donor cooperation, and on the initiative of investigating the possibilities offered by
the use of modern pre-payment electricity meters.



- 8 -
24.         Project restructuring. By mid-1993 a supervision mission recommended to
restructure the project due to the slow pace of implementation and to the new conditions
created in the country by the peace settlement. Consequently, GOM and IDA agreed
formally to introduce changes in the project as follows:
*  The target for urban household electric connections under the Prolec program was
reduced from 40,000 to about 4,000 connections, but EDM's connection program was
expanded through the power distribution system reinforcement.
*  The financing of the import of 200,000 electric bulbs was eliminated from the project and
the financing of imported energy-using goods of the energy efficiency program such as
stoves, lamps, and solar panels, was reduced by 50 percent because these goods could be
obtained commercially.
*  The coal program and provision of 50,000 coal stoves to households in Maputo, Beira
and Tete were eliminated from the project because after the peace agreement coal was no
longer brought to the Maputo area after the closing of the coal-fired plant near Maputo.
X  The decentralized off-grid electrification of small towns was added as a pilot.
*  The financing of prepayment electricity meters was added to the project.
*  A one million dollar pilot community-managed, natural woodland resource management
program was included in 1995 to produce biofuel efficiently.
25.         The 1994 cyclone. Soon after the agreement to amend the Credit and Project
Agreements was reached, northern Mozambique was hit by a cyclone in March 1994 which
extensively damaged power system facilities of EDM in Nampula and Nacala districts.
Consequently, the Credit and Project Agreements were amended in 1994 to also include in
the project a component to cover the rehabilitation needs of that part of the northern power
system. The original project objectives were broad enough to accommodate the amendment.
26.         The physical components of the project (supported by Annex 1). The physical
components of the project financed by IDA were completed by April 1998, and the components
financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) and Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA) were to be completed only by end-1998. BADEA funded the power
system strengthening in Maputo, Beira and a number of other towns, and NDF financed the
power system strengthening and the rehabilitation of the cable factory.
27.         The extension of EDM' s distribution network to which the new consumers
under the Prolec program were to be connected, was delayed until 1992 (Phase I) and 1995
(Phase II) because: (i) funds from the co-financier (BADEA) did not become available to
EDM till late 1994, due to EDM's failure to meet the effectiveness conditions of the
BADEA credit; and (ii) funds from the IDA Credit did not become available to EDM until
meeting disbursement conditions of the credit requiring submittal of its financial viability



-9 -
plan. This plan depended on financial analysis for which EDM hired reputable consultants
under bilateral aid. The consultants did not perform the assignment satisfactorily, thereby
contributing to further implementation delays. Also, the armed conflict delayed the
preparation of an updated asset valuation, which the Government demanded as a precondition
for reviewing EDM's finances. In parallel, the pilot off-grid electrification with the private
management has been implemented.
28.         The petroleum components were implemented satisfactorily within the
original project schedule. For example, PETROMOC's kerosene component, although
delayed because of the unexpected reduction in its skilled staff, was completed before credit
closing date. Mocacor chose to defer capital investments and adopted a wait-and-see strategy
on how demand and prices evolved to decide on the timing and magnitude of investments.
29.         Originally, the major woodfuel component was to rehabilitate the plantations
near the main cities. This approach was reexamined when it became evident that this
component would not be justified economically even at the high prevailing prices of
woodfuel. Instead, in view of the peace conditions prevailing in 1993, a new approach was
chosen, which focused on the resource management and development of a 70,000 ha. rural
area. This pilot project was originally designed for a 24 month implementation period.
Although the implementation period was reduced to only ten months due to delays in the
starting-up of the project, the pilot successfully demonstrated the enormous potential for
communities to effectively and sustainably manage woodfuel resources when provided with
proper guidance.
30.         The coal pilot program was developed on the assumption that by adding
incremental amounts of coal to the shipments for the coal-fired power plant existing near
Maputo, the coal merchants could supply coal to households. After the peace settlement the
expensive power plant was closed, and consequently coal shipments stopped. Since the
quantities of coal demanded by the households was too small to justify coal shipments to
Maputo for household use only, this component was dropped from the project.
31.         The non-physical component of the project (supported by Tables 7 and 7a).
Under this component 20 studies were completed, of which 4 studies were for EDM on
accounting, finances, auditing, and assets valuation; 3 studies were for PETROMOC on
auditing, cathodic protection, and assets valuation; one study for Mocacor on auditing; 3
studies for BEU on biomass inventory through satellite imagery, improved woodfuel stoves,
and planning and policy formulation; and 10 studies for the DNE on household
electrification, petroleum sector restructuring and related legislation, energy strategy plan,
integrated energy planning, reform and regulation of the power sub-sector, review of a draft
of the new electricity law, review of the finances of EDM, PETROMOC, and Mocacor;
rehabilitation of the geology building; and LPG supply.
32.         Technical assistance. Experts on many disciplines provided technical
assistance to EDM, PETROMOC, BEU and DNE. Two experts assisted EDM in power
distribution maintenance, tariffs and billing for isolated systems, and 3 training courses were



- 10-
given to distribution engineers. One expert assisted BEU in biomass energy planning. A law
firm assisted DNE in the drafting of the proposed new electricity law; an energy planner and
an economist assisted DNE in energy planning, pricing policies, fiscal policies and financial
monitoring. A management consulting firm assisted DNE in establishing routines for stock
control, invoicing and billing.
33.         Since 1996, most of the attention of the GOM and IDA has been focused on the
implementation of the recommendations on policy, institutional changes, and sector reforms
derived from the studies and technical assistance, which are placing the energy sector of
Mozambique among the most modem energy sector legal frameworks in Africa. The studies
and technical assistance to improve the operations and finances of EDM had a late impact and
only began to show positive results in 1997 and 1998.
34.         As an example of progress made in bringing private participation into the
power sub-sector operations, it is worth mentioning the on-going negotiations of a
management contract to operate the electricity supply systems in Vilankulo, Inhassoro, and
Montepuez. This management contract is expected to be signed with a private operator and
become effective in 1999.
35.         Credit disbursement and closing date (Table 4). Credit disbursement was
very slow during the early years of project implementation. Only US$6.6 million
(44.6 percent of the appraisal estimate) was disbursed by 1993, four years after credit
approval. This slow disbursement was caused by irrecoverable delays in project
effectiveness and compliance with conditions of credit disbursement. Also, the
implementation capacity was very limited in the early years of the project because efforts
were concentrated on the execution of the previous IDA project6 that was being implemented
concurrently, as well as on projects funded by others. Factors external to the energy sector
contributed to the slow pace of project implementation and credit disbursement such as the
weak banking sector, the cumbersome and lengthy Government review and approval
procedures for procurement of goods and recruitment of consultants. All these factors moved
IDA to extend the credit closing date, first by 12 months to end-1997, and a second time by
four additional months to April 1998 to allow completion of all physical works. The last
credit disbursement took place on September 9, 1998. A total of US$2.3 million not
disbursed was canceled from the credit.
36.         Project cost (Table 8a). The actual project cost is estimated to be US$41.9
million or 16 percent less than the US$49.3 million estimated at appraisal, excluding interest
during construction and the US$30 million in fuel imports. The major savings were made in
the EDM components for distribution rehabilitation and reinforcement, and institutional
strengthening.
6 Energy TA and Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1806-MZ), approved in mid-1987 and closed in December 1994.



- 11 -
37.         Projectfinancing (Table 8b). IDA financed US$20.4 million and catalyzed
cofinancing from BADEA (US$8.0 million), NDF (US$5.4 million) and Mozambican
companies (US$2.9 million). The GOM financed US$5.3 million. Additionally, an
aggregate of US$30 million in parallel financing was pledged by SIDA, NORAD and IDA to
pay for fuel imports, but information on the actual amount financed is not known. A pledge
of US$3.0 million by the Government of Denmark did not materialize.
38.         Project economic performance. For the project as a whole, the SAR
calculated an economic rate of return (ERR) of 50 percent, assuming that the net economic
benefits of the project would be the savings to consumers arising from a replacement of
expensive fuelwood by electricity, kerosene, LPG and coal. Because of the substantial
change in project components, it has not been possible to calculate an ex-post ERR on the
project as a whole. The same comments apply to an ex-post recalculation of the ERR for the
electrification, LPG and Kerosene programs. However, based on very conservative
assumptions (Annex 1, para. 7) this ICR has calculated an ex-post ERR of 11 percent on the
investment in the small-town electrification program, a small but important component in
terms of introducing cost-based tariffs and piloting an alternative mechanism for increasing
access to electricity. Further, it is important to note that in the re-estimation of the ERR, the
benefits are based on the current tariff and not the willingness to pay which, if used, could
yield a significantly higher ERR.
E. Major Factors Affecting the Project
39.         Factors Outside Government Control. During the first three years of the
project (1989-92), Mozambique was torn by the armed conflict. Although the project was
designed for this scenario and sought to alleviate some of the adverse effects of the armed
conflict on the urban population, its implementation suffered from the turnoil. The
transmission lines were frequently sabotaged and EDM struggled to maintain continuity in
the power supply to Maputo. Understandably, the main daily preoccupation of EDM was to
keep the electricity flowing to its existing consumers, not to add new ones. The import of
LPG by rail from South Africa was also hazardous. The acute scarcity of foreign exchange
constrained the procurement of adequate supplies of other petroleum products. BEU staff
were unable to undertake fields visits for many of the biomass components until recently.
40.         After the peace settlement in 1992, the energy supply situation in the cities
improved substantially both because the peace opened up the supply routes, and foreign
assistance began to flow into the country. While increased access to electrification remained
a valid project objective, the project merited a full review to assess how to adapt it to the new
political and economic context. However, this was not carried out.
41.         Factors subject to Government Control. For many years GOM failed to meet
its obligations related to the financial position of EDM and PETROMOC. The GOM was
tepid in timely approving electricity tariff increases to keep pace with inflation and foreign
exchange variations and frequently deferred tariff increases for political reasons.
Consequently the level of tariffs always lagged considerably behind inflation and foreign



- 12-
exchange variations. Also, GOM did not recognize depreciation cost to be part of the tariffs.
Irregular settlements of cross-debts between GOM and state enterprises mainly resulted in
temporary improvements. The credit would have been declared effective and disbursement
started sooner if GOM had helped EDM and PETROMOC comply with credit conditions
The GOM (Ministry of Finance) had limited the financial autonomy of EDM in the three-
year performance contract agreed with GOM in 1997. Regarding PETROMOC, the GOM
has never compensated it for the foreign exchange losses on oil imports caused by the initial
pricing system imposed by GOM. The GOM repeatedly delayed proposals for the
commercialization and restructuring of PETROMOC.
42.         The situation has, however, improved enormously. Power tariffs are at about
the right average level of US¢7.5 per kWh. Petroleum prices are being adjusted efficiently.
Payment issues are being settled during the privatization process.
43.         Factors subject to control by the implementing agencies. Even after the
armed conflict ended, EDM did not demonstrate commitment to the main project goal of
increasing household electrification through Prolec. EDM gave priority to large projects,
particularly related to power transmission, and extended its distribution system regardless of
its commitment to support the Prolec program. Until early 1997, EDM did not give adequate
importance to financial management and could not regularize underlying accounting records
in order to produce meaningful and reliable financial data, despite receiving ample support
from resident experts and consulting firms. EDM played off one donor against another, spent
at a high rate, and could never afford to repay its borrowings. Only towards the end of the
project EDM was willing to prepare a medium-term investment plan and assess its financial
feasibility. These problems were recently overcome through the EDM/GOM performance
contract agreed in 1997.
44.         BPD, the provider of commercial loans to households for electrification, did
not have adequate capacity for credit assessment and monitoring. Although lending and
customer relations mechanisms were established with assistance of consultants to speed up
the processing of loans, the delays in grid extension by EDM, with BADEA financing, forced
many households to wait for a long time until connections to electricity materialized. This
discouraged potential customers to apply for electrification loans. Only about 500
households received loans and paid for home wiring/connections. The repayment rate of
loans exceeded 95% initially, declined significantly as customers had to wait long for the
connection, but has now improved substantially after customers were connected to the grid.
45.         Mocacor diversified strongly but always remained a minor player. It made
little effort to promote the use of LPG, even after adequate bulk supplies were assured,
because price controls left small profitability margins.
F. Project Sustainability
46.         Sustainability of the project is uncertain. Significant achievements have
been made in terms of designing and implementing reforms for sustainable sector operations



- 13 -
and in terms of institutionalizing financial and operational performance standards for the key
sector entities (EDM, PETROMOC and Mocacor). With regard to reforms, the legal
framework for a competitive electricity market has been created, need for cost-based tariffs
and for private sector participation has been recognized through the small scale rural
electrification program, and the initial steps have been taken towards creating a modem
regulatory system. In the petroleum sub-sector, PETROMOC is now operating in a
commercial and competitive manner7 and Mo9acor is competing successfully in the retail
market. With respect to financial and operational performance standards, EDM is
maintaining its power stations in accordance with accepted utility standards. The electricity
prepayment meters, financed under the project, have proved to be a good and reliable option
for reducing billing, collection costs and accounts receivable. EDM is conducting its
operations so as to meet the requirements of its performance contract and is operating a
profitable service. However, because the institutional and sector reforms came only towards
the end of the project's life and their implementation remain to be completed, the
environment for viable sector operations can only be considered fragile, hence the
"uncertain" rating for sustainability8.
G. Bank Performance
47.          Project design, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory.9  The project
design proved to be too complex. Many components (power, petroleum, coal, biomass,
technical assistance), entities (EDM, Prolec, PETROMOC, Mocacor, BEU, DNE), and two
co-financiers (NDF, BADEA) were involved in project implementation. Project 'ownership'
of project components was diffused across too many agencies. For example the success of
the Prolec household electrification program depended critically on support by EDM, which
did not appear to have fully subscribed to Prolec objectives. Both the implementation
capacity and the absorptive capacity of the Mozambican energy sector were dependent on a
limited number of key individuals. Project preparation and appraisal took nine months.
48.           The fact that EDM was not given a central role as the key implementing
agency appears to have handicapped the Prolec household electrification program from the
start. The Bank did not have close involvement in all aspects of EDM's operations as it
usually has in traditional power projects.
7 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The reforms introduced in the petroleum sector mainly the removal
of PETROMOC's import monopoly and price setting mechanism eased PETROMOC from a heavy financial
burden with product imports and allowed a sustainable improvement of its financial results." (See section 5
of Appendix B).
8 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The policy measures and market reforms introduced in the
petroleum and electricity sectors are sustainable and will develop further in line with the objectives of
increasing access to modem forms of energy, in a safe and efficient manner to increased parts of the
country." (See section 5 of Appendix B).
9 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "Performance by the Bank has been satisfactory but the supervision
during the initial years of project implementation was not satisfactory." (See section 4 of Appendix B).



- 14-
49.          Regarding the design of the conditionality included in the IDA credit, it
appears that, when narrowly interpreted, the disbursement condition (EDM's financial
viability plan) was not realistic because the country conditions made it too difficult to obtain
the critical financial information needed by EDM to prepare such a plan. IDA staff should
have realized that this factor (later compounded with requests by the GOM to increase the
level of detail of the projections) would impede EDM's ability to formulate a timely and
credible plan for restoring its financial viability. The condition of disbursement was only met
in mid-1995 after a new tariff study was agreed. For the same reasons, monitoring
compliance with financial covenants was based on unreliable information.
50.         Supervision was unsatisfactory"'. The project was supervised regularly and
concurrently with another project. This is reflected in less than 40 SW in project supervision
cost. The co-financier, NDF, delegated supervision responsibility to IDA until the NDF
financed portion of the project is completed (expected in December 1999) (see para. 5 of
Annex 1).
51.          There was continuity of task management from project preparation and
appraisal through the first four years of implementation. Unfortunately, in the period 1993-
1995 supervision was lax and the project drifted because two task managers lasted very short
periods and the staff skill mix supervising the project was not appropriate. Initially, the
project issues were financial and IDA supervision missions gave emphasis to this aspect.
However, the project might have benefited from a better skill mix of supervision staff. For
example, there was no participation by a biomass energy specialist in supervision missions
between late 1990 and mid-1995. No power engineer/power specialist visited Mozambique
from late 1992 to mid-1995 though extending electrification was a key project component.
The overall performance rating of the project was correctly downgraded to '3' in mid-1 991,
but a supervision mission upgraded it to '2' in early 1993, when GOM adopted a power tariff
formula to adjust tariffs for exchange rate movements. Only since 1995, did supervision
improve significantly with a stable task manager and an appropriate staff skill mix.
52.          Once peace was restored in Mozarnbique and the isolation of the cities from
the countryside ended, the urban woodfuels scarcity was substantially alleviated. This
scenario, being completely different from the one existing at time of project appraisal should
have elicited a far-reaching reevaluation of the project design and justification. Instead, IDA
conducted inadequate project supervision and exercised flexibility by modifying project
components only when circumstances changed.
lO Borrower's input to the ICR states that "Performance by the Bank has been satisfactory but the supervision
during the initial years of project implementation was not satisfactory." (See section 4 of Appendix B).



- 15 -
H. Borrower Performance
53.         Given the multiplicity of entities involved in the project and the long
implementation period, borrower performance has to be assessed on a one-by-one basis
because performance varied from entity to entity and also over time within each entity. For
example, all the entities had frequent turnover of key personnel, and the project objectives
were not necessarily "owned" by every management change in the entities. Overall
borrower performance can be considered unsatisfactory.
54.         Ministry of Finance performance was unsatisfactory. The Ministry of
Finance was not proactive on matters affecting financial viability of EDM and PETROMOC
and its slow decisions on procurement contributed to delays in project execution.
55.         Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy and DNE. Overall project
implementation and coordination was entrusted to DNE, but it was not empowered to obtain
full collaboration from autonomous bodies such as EDM, BPD and BDM. Consequently,
DNE could not play a more dynamic role in reorienting the project to respond to changed
priorities at an earlier stage in project implementation. Monitoring and reporting by DNE
was patchy during the period of low supervision by the Bank, but improved towards the end
of the project. Overall performance of DNE is rated as marginally satisfactory because
factors beyond its control impeded a better performance.
56.         EDMperformance was unsatisfactory. During the early years of project
implementation, EDM did not pay much attention to the UHEP project. EDM was
understandably preoccupied with day to day operations, dealing with sabotage on its
transmission lines and major projects in generation and transmission and trying to keep the
power service on. Also, financial viability was an unfamiliar concept for EDM. In 1992,
IDA amended the Credit Agreement in order to release 20 percent of EDM's share to help
implementation of the Prolec program, but this action did not create EDM commitment to the
project, even though there was a waiting list of several thousand households seeking to be
connected outside the Prolec program. In addition, during most of the project
implementation period EDM was unwilling to prepare and share information with IDA on
such an important matter as its multi-year investment program. Only towards the end of
project implementation, did EDM's performance and cooperation with IDA improve,
particularly on the occasion of the Nacala rehabilitation and the prepayment electricity meters
program.
57.         BEU performance was highly satisfactory. Considering the circumstances
prevailing in Mozambique during the early 1990s, BEU implemented the initial biomass
components in a satisfactory manner. Furthermore, it made judicious use of limited
expatriate technical assistance and did not become dependent on only IDA funding for local
operational expenses. It is remarkable that BEU developed and implemented a useful
program of studies and prepared the Santaca community-managed pilot project.



- 16-
58.         PETROMOC performance was marginally satisfactory. The kerosene
distribution component was executed satisfactorily, but after a long delay. PETROMOC
explored promoting the use of LPG through improved import arrangements and several
initiatives in this area were rightly abandoned as this is an area where distributors can make
their own arrangements. Until recently, PETROMOC focused primarily on oil supply and oil
procurement issues rather than on product marketing and distribution, which were more
central to the objectives of the UHEP. This focus was appropriate at the time when supplies
were constrained overall. Financial performance was unsatisfactory until recently due to
reasons outside its control, but has become satisfactory in recent years. PETROMOC is now
operating well in a competitive environment.
59.         Mo(!acor performance was marginally satisfactory. The company did not
succeed in promoting LPG sales and expanding the market, which were the central objectives
of the project. The funds under the UHEP were not fully utilized. Instead Mocacor focused
on supply diversification and its financial well-being. Because of price-resistance in its LPG
market, continued risks from price controls and threats of competition, Mocacor proceeded
cautiously on priorities other than the project, and recently has become more energetically
commercial. This behavior was appropriate.
1. Assessment of Outcome
60.          Overall project outcome is considered unsatisfactory."1 This is because its
physical objectives were only partially achieved, institutional and policy reform objectives
were substantially achieved only toward the end of the project, and sustainability of the gains
remains uncertain. Further, while the original project objective of bringing low-cost
commercial fuels to a large number of urban households was broadly achieved, this was
partly because of the project, but also because of the return to peace conditions which
resulted in an increased supply of these fuels. The record on the project's physical
components shows that EDM failed to implement the important Prolec household
electrification program and the coal pilot component was dropped. The failure of the Prolec
component overshadows a wide range of other achievements. On the institutional side,
financial and operational performance of EDM, PETROMOC and Mo,acor remained low
throughout most of the project implementation period due to the GOM non-approval of
adequate prices and operational inefficiencies. Performance standards have since been
adopted by all three and improvements have been recorded in the last few years. The
project's outcome on energy sector efficiency and policy development was almost fully
satisfactory. The project was instrumental in bringing about important reforms in the
petroleum sub-sector that improved its efficiency, reduced the country's oil import bill and
thus had a positive impact on the balance of payments. The legal status of PETROMOC
distribution has changed from a state enterprise to a limited liability company ruled by the
" Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The general outcome of the project is satisfactory although some
targets set initially were not achieved." (See section 5 of Appendix B).
Co-financier's comments state that "If the outcome is compared to the restructured project (as of 1994),
the project, in our opinion, should be regarded as "satisfactory". (See Appendix C).



- 17-
commercial law. Analytical work carried out under the project provided a framework for the
institutional reform of the power sub-sector which has begun to be implemented.
Significantly, the project also laid the basis for the first privately-run electricity supply
concession in Mozambique, which could prove to be the precursor of numerous other such
schemes. The project put Mozambique in the forefront of sector reforms. The successful
community-based biomass program, including cash generation activities, provided valuable
experience for the design of future rural development schemes that are now at the planning
stage. At present it may be premature to assess the long-term effects of the energy sector
reform, and the sustainability of the performance standards adopted by the key sector entities.
A follow-up electrification project will continue to support the sector reform. Also a
proposed follow-up electrification project would consist of a policy component and
investments to expand electricity access. Because of these uncertainties and the mixed
outcome of the physical components, the overall project outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
J. Future Operations
61.         Although the GOM has not submitted to IDA a formal plan for future
operation of the project, experience with this project suggests that the GOM has the capacity
to develop and sustain a focussed energy sector strategy to meet the challenges of providing
wider access to energy needs by the rural and suburban population, including efficient
utilization of biomass fuels. In doing this, appropriate consideration should be given by the
GOM to the abundance of Mozambique's energy resources which, while potentially
important for the export market, should also assist in a wider and faster access to commercial
energy by the Mozambican people.
62.         The Bank's Regional Program for the Traditional Energy Sector (RPTES) is
providing limited technical assistance to a biomass pilot project in the local community of
Santaca. Several donors have already indicated a willingness to finance the continuation of
technical assistance to the local community during the commercial phase of the project. The
RPTES will also assist with the preparation of a national-level investment based on the
Santaca experience. Also a proposed follow-up electrification project would consist of a
policy component and investments to expand electricity access.
K. Key Lessons
63.         The following lessons can be offered:
* Projects should be designed with a simple institutional organization and few components.
A complex multi component project implemented through many agencies risks spreading
responsibilities, diluting 'ownership' of the project among agencies, and making project
coordination very difficult.



- 18-
* When the macroeconomic and political conditions in which a project was appraised
changes profoundly during project execution, a radical project redesign/re-appraisal may
be required proactively as soon as it is clear that the changes are permanent. A mere
piecemeal modification of the project components should be avoided.
*  Standard financial performance covenants in Loan/Credit Agreements are meaningless if
the underlying performance data is unavailable. Rather than requiring compliance with
rate of return or other complex financial covenants difficult to monitor and sometimes
unfamiliar for the incumbent entity, it is preferable to require compliance with simpler
and less ambitious indicators, easy to monitor but necessary to achieve basic financial
survival of the incumbent entity.
* By implementing natural resource management including cash generating activities to the
community, villagers get incentives to protect natural resources and utilize the resources
in a cost effective and sustainable manner.
* With timely and flexible intervention, it is possible to achieve some measure of success,
even if initially the project had been poorly designed and managed.



- 19 -
Annex 1
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Household Electrification Program (Prolec)
1.          The US$10 million Prolec household electrification program was a response
to the scarcity and high-cost of biomass fuels in urban areas, the burden of which fell
disproportionately on lower-income families. It sought to massively increase access to
electricity by providing funds for the import of equipment required for service connections,
house wiring and electrical fixtures. Concessionary loans (repayable in four years with only
a 10% interest rate), averaging US$300-400 were provided by a local bank (BPD) to low-
income households seeking an electrical connection.
2.          IDA funds were used for the purchase of materials and appliances and the
consulting and management costs of the program, while NDF and BADEA funds were
available for extension of EDM's distribution network. In the initial three years,
implementation was severely delayed because: (i) donor funding remained blocked due to
the failure by GOM/EDM to meet the condition of effectiveness/disbursement, and (ii) the
difficulty in finalizing the financial arrangements between BPD and BDM for accessing the
counterpart funds and the interest rate subsidy. But even when these issues were resolved,
the program did not proceed satisfactorily.
3.          With hindsight it is clear that Prolec was administratively too complex and
suffered from coordination problems between EDM, BPD, Ministry of Finance/BDM,
Interelectra (the equipment and materials procurement agency) and DNE. Responsibility for
its implementation was diffused and even though the target was cut from 40,000 to 4,000
households when the project was restructured, it did not meet the lower figure. This was
partly due to lack of commitment to it from EDM, which did not give the program adequate
priority in expanding its distribution network. Consequently the pace of implementation was
very slow and in some cases Prolec loan beneficiaries who had completed the necessary
works within their homes had to wait lengthy periods for EDM to hook them up. In total,
about 500 households have directly benefited from loans granted under the program.
However, a further 2,500 households were connected to the grid extended under the Prolec
program.
4.          Nevertheless, in overall terms during the 1988-97 period, EDM increased the
total number of residential electricity consumers in Mozambique by nearly 60,000 from
about 98,000 to 156,000. This has raised the access to electricity from under 4% of the
population in the late 1980s to about 6% today, based on a 6-person average household.



- 20 -
Off-grid Electrification of Small Towns
5.          Given the availability of natural gas from the Pande field the towns of
Vilankulo and Inhassoro as a result of a prior investment in a gas pipeline by ENH, it was
decided to give priority to electrification of these towns. The construction of the electricity
distribution network and installation of gas-fired power generators was completed in April
1998 at a total cost of about US$1.6 million. Service connections were initially made to
about 200 consurners in Vilankulo and 40 in Inhassoro. The number of consumers increased
by 66% from 240 to 400 over the nine months of operation. Electricity demand has been
strong. The growth in demand exceeded 50% despite the initial projection at 10% p.a. NDF
agreed to support electrification of two more towns (Montepuez and Nova Mambone) and
TA to DNE after the closure of the project until the end of 1999. NDF delegated supervision
responsibilities to IDA until the electrification project is completed. NDF/GOM expects all
the work to be completed by the end of 1999. Electricity will be generated based on diesel in
Montepuez and based on natural gas in Nova Mambone. DANIDA will finance the
pipeline/supervision at the cost of US$500,000. The grid construction in Montepuez was
completed and the generators have been installed. Initially about 400 households will be
connected to the grid and the average tariff would be set at about USc 20/kWh. Work in
Nova Mambone is expected to be started shortly.
6.         Institutional Arrangements: A key objective of the electrification component
was to facilitate sector strengthening and reforms, and as the project progressed these
focussed on elimination of EDM monopoly, private sector involvement, cost recovery tariffs,
and on introduction of competition. In order to implement this project, a set of new
laws/regulations had to be prepared to allow the new approach with the private sector. The
electricity law was drafted by consultants financed under the project and was approved in
1997. The draft management contract for the operation of the power supply systems by the
private sector and tender documents for bidding were prepared under the project. The decree
to authorize a three-year 'concession' arrangement to manage the power supply in the two
towns as a combined operation was approved by the Council of Ministers. The tender was
issued in early June 1999. GOM plans to remunerate the private operator by means of a
management fee which would represent about a 17% annual post-tax return on the initial
outlay of funds by the private operator. However, the proposed fee will be one of the
selection criteria of the operator.
7.          Pricing: To ensure the sustainability, the Government agreed to introduce cost
recovery tariffs for these isolated non-EDM systems. The average electricity tariff to
consumers is estimated at MT 1,800 (US¢ 15.0)/kWh, which would generate revenues
adequate to cover all costs including the management fee and a financial return to the
Government of about 8% on its capital investment. The ex-post economic rate of return of
this electrification project was estimated at least at 11%, and a positive NPV of $50,000. The
economic rate of return was calculated conservatively based on the prevailing tariffs. It is
difficult to capture associated benefits in the rate of return calculation. However, improved
water supply, new local small businesses, better school/hospital environment and improved



- 21 -
safety due to street lighting have been observed after electrification. The principles
determining gas prices were agreed and approved by the Council of Ministers. ENH receives
US$2.00/GJ for gas sales for power generation, which allows it to recover the cost of the gas
pipeline from Pande and earn a reasonable return on this investment.
Biomass Components
8.          A Biomass Energy Unit (BEU) was set up in 1989 under the National Forestry
and Wildlife Department to implement a US$3.5 million woodfuels program. This program
was designed to address the urban woodfuels supply problem through the
rehabilitation/extension of three existing FAO-supported fuelwood plantations, improved
carbonization techniques and stoves, carry out a biomass resource inventory through remote
sensing and mapping and help build up the institutional capacity for biomass energy policy
and planning.
9.          Fire protection equipment for the plantations was procured and about
2,000 ha. of new plantation was implemented out of the SAR target of 6,000 ha. This
component was correctly scaled back due to the high cost (US$500/ha.), compared to the
expected revenue from woodfuel sales, the unpopularity of eucalyptus charcoal among users,
and the difficulty of putting in place a satisfactory commnercialization system, given the
security constraints due to the armed conflict. Experience elsewhere has also confinned the
unsuitability and high cost of plantations as a response to fuelwood problems.
10.         The remote sensing was carried out in 1992 and forest and biomass cover
maps were produced and disseminated in 1993. However, given the rapid changes in land-
use patterns and vegetation cover since the end of the armed conflict, it is now necessary to
update this exercise through the purchase of new satellite images.
11.         During the 1990-95 period, BEU successfully carried out a number of studies,
research and capacity development activities to improve understanding of the traditional
energy sector with minimal expatriate assistance and without IDA financing for operational
expenses, for which it relied on GOM's budgetary allocations. Out of this research program,
BEU prepared a pilot project for the sustainable management by local communities of
existing forests for charcoal production. Following a rapid rural appraisal of the selected area
in 1996, the Bank agreed to include the pilot within the scope of UHEP.
Community-Managed Woodfuel Supply Pilot Project
12.         A US$1 million, community-based biomass pilot project covering 70,000 ha
in the Matutuine District of Maputo province (about 60 km south-west of the capital), was
implemented in 1997. The original design of the pilot project was to be completed in 24
months. However, due to the start-..up and implementation delays, the project period was
shortened to 10 months. It principally sought to introduce sustainable forest management
practices by the rural population for woodfuel production. However, the project was multi-
sectoral and in addition to introducing a natural resource management plan for sustainable



- 22 -
charcoal production it set up diversified cash generating activities such as brick making,
sunflower oil extraction and a tree nursery. Technology to improve efficiency and
productivity of charcoal production was also introduced to the community. As a result, the
efficiency improved by 100%. (The output doubled and the carbonization efficiency also
doubled.) Individuals selected by the local community were trained as forest/wildlife
inspectors to monitor illegal logging and poaching. Five associations of charcoal producers
and a system of production licenses were set up to 'empower' producers and enhance their
negotiating power with buyers.
13.         This pilot project went beyond the confines of a conventional forestry and/or
energy sector activity. The pilot was designed as a rural development and sustainable natural
resource management project. The cost per hectare of this pilot was much lower than in
similar pilot projects in West Africa. R & D expenditures dominated the overall costs and
these will not have to be incurred to the same extent in future projects of this kind. BEU and
the University consultants who designed and implemented the pilot are confident that the
Santaca pilot can be replicated in other regions of Mozambique at a unit cost of well under
half of that incurred in the pilot project. Becauise of the success, two bilateral donors have
pledged the follow-up funding.
14.         The pilot project was designed and implemented entirely without foreign TA.
The staff employed by the project team gained useful operational experience which can be
utilized elsewhere. This component has had a strong institutional development impact. BEU
has been integrated under the Forestry Departrnent of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fishery, when UHEP was closed. The Government has agreed to continue support the
Licuati initiative through the Provincial Government and NDER is concluding necessary
arrangements with Maputo Province.
Power Sector Reforms
15.         An Electricity law eliminating EDM's monopoly, providing the basis for
granting concessions to private operators and setting up a regulator, a quasi-independent
electricity council (CNELEC), was drafted by GOM and passed by Parliament in 1997. The
Bank assisted in drafting and a review of the draft law by legal experts funded from the
Credit. This was an important step in opening up the power sector to supply options that do
not require an EDM participation, such as off-grid systems financed by the project in
Inhassoro and Vilankulo (paras. 5-7). Detailed regulations for the application of the Law are
now under preparation.
16.         Performance targets were to be adopted by EDM under the project
(para. 4.11 (d) of the DCA). EDM first prepared a business plan under its own initiative and
then negotiated a three-year Performance Contract with GOM, which was signed in early
1997. However this is only a modest first step, because there are no incentive/penalties to
promote achievement and no profits target. The removal of key financial clauses by the
Ministry of Finance that committed GOM to grant EDM tariff increases etc. considerably
diluted the value of this document.



- 23 -
17.         Following passage of the Electricity Law, UHEP further promoted sector
refonns by financing a study of the institutional arrangements. The consultants
recommended unbundling EDM and the steps for setting up an independent industry
regulator. These proposals now require further consideration amongst the interested parties
in Mozambique to reach a decision on their implementation.
EDM's Finances
18.         Although tariff adjustment mechanisms were introduced early in the project,
permitted electricity tariff increases did not keep up with the rapid inflation and currency
depreciation experienced in Mozambique during most of the project period. For several
years prior the peace settlement, sabotage of power lines cut EDM's sales and it could not
pay PETROMOC for its oil use. Arrears for oil were persistently in the US$8-lOm range in
the early/mid 1990s. For the mid-term review in late 1992, GOM carried out a cross-debts
clear-up that reduced about half of the arrears to PETROMOC, but they soon built up again.
In late-1996 PETROMOC was owed US$24 million, of which US$16 million was accounted
for by parastatals and GOM. EDM's receivables, mainly from the water companies and
government bodies rose to over US$4 million in 1995. Excessive accounts receivable
continued to burden both EDM and PETROMOC's finances throughout most of the
remainder of the project implementation period.
19.         Until 1998 EDM consistently made losses over the decade. Auditors have
always qualified the accounts. EDM was poorly served by the financial consultants recruited
under the project in 1990-92. The performance of consultants to assist with accounting
improvements, financial analysis and the valuation of assets was unsatisfactory. This
hindered EDM's ability to meet the IDA disbursement condition. By the time of the mid-
term review in late 1992, a complete and coherent picture of EDM's finances was not
available. Ministry of Finance demanded a detailed asset valuation and this was somewhat
unrealistic prior to the peace. A study of its financial viability was finally submitted to the
Bank in 1994 and only since 1995 has there been a realistic assessment of its financial
position. In part, this is the result of an ESMAP funded tariff study that entailed the
preparation of the first long-tern investment plan for EDM.
20.         EDM itself was unwilling to analyze the impact on its finances of its
investment program, which in the early years of the project merely consisted of a shopping
list of proposals to be presented to potential donors for financing. It was also unwilling to
provide the Bank with technical and economic feasibility studies of its investment program,
even though at negotiations GOM had agreed to a prior review by the Bank of all new
projects in the sector with a value exceeding US$10 million.



- 24 -
21.         Procurement of prepayment meters was first mooted at the mid-term review,
but was slow to be put into practice as the meters needed further technical development.
After a successful pilot experience, 15,000 meters were finally procured in 1997-98 at a cost
of US$1.6 million and are being installed in Nampula and Nacala with assistance from KfW.
Experience to date has shown them to be reliable, with a high degree of consumer satisfaction
compared to the old billing system which was mistrusted. EDM has gained through a
dramatic improvement in collections in those pilot areas where these meters have been
installed. It is planning to purchase and install more prepayment meters using its own
resources, given their short payback period.
Petroleum Policy Reforms
22.         Even though the project initially did not contain an explicit policy reform
agenda, it turned out to be instrumental in bringing about important sectoral reforms. It
financed the studies and consulting services for deregulating and restructuring the sector.
Oil Procurement
23.         In parallel with politically-arranged supplies from the Soviet Union,
Mozambique's other foreign aid donors (including IDA) were financing a major portion of
the country's oil imports during the late 1980s and early 1990s, but in an uncoordinated
manner. The scarcity of foreign exchange was such that GOM contracted for oil in very
small parcels which pushed up the delivered cost by 20%. Initially donors were unwilling to
pool financial resources, but the Bank succeeded in obtaining the agreement of GOM and
donors to the setting up of a Joint Oil Procurement Committee to launch competitive bids
covering six months requirements. This committee became fully operational in 1994 and has
helped to ensure transparency, standardization of procedures as well as bring down oil
procurement costs substantially.
24.         Since PETROMOC was the only importer, the Bank argued for the separation
of oil importing from its marketing activities to introduce a 'level playing field' among oil
product distributors. Following ratification of a Petroleum Decree in early 1997, which the
project assisted in drafting, it has been agreed by GOM and the oil marketing companies to
set up a jointly-owned, private non-profit, oil import company to relieve PETROMOC of the
financial burden and risk of being the sole importer. This also removes the conflict of
interest with its marketing operations. This arrangement is considered as an interim. Once
the market becomes big (at least twice its present size) and the access to the foreign exchange
is improved, the petroleum imports should be liberalized.



- 25 -
Pricing Decontrol
25.         Following a study undertaken as part of the project, a petroleum product
pricing formula was introduced in 1997 to ensure automaticity in the adjustment of pump
prices in line with movement in CIF costs. Today GOM only sets a maximum ceiling price
in the three major cities, which ensures adequate distribution margins and leaves the
distributors free to set their own pump prices. New firms have entered the petroleum
distribution business and there has been a marked increase in investment in service station
facilities by the existing distributors as well. PETROMOC's market share has dropped from
about 75% ten years ago to under 50% of a substantially larger market. Price decontrol
currently applies to the aviation fuels, and there is scope in the short-term for decontrolling
for some of the other fuels that do not directly impact the poor.
PETROMOC Restructuring
26.         The project also financed consultants to assist with PETROMOC's asset
valuation prior to a program of disposal, internal reorganization, asset sale and staff
redeployment necessitated by its reduced role in the sector. The legal status of PETROMOC,
distribution, has changed from a state enterprise to that of an SARL (a limited liability
company), which has brought it under normal commercial law. Asset disposal and right-
sizing are expected to start in mid-1999.



- 26 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
V/               / )                                (V)
Macro Policies                       El                                                  E  ll
Sector Policies                                       El               E                  El
Financial Objectives                  0l                               E                  El
Institutional Development            [2                                El 0 
Physical Objectives                    l              X                E                  E
Poverty Reduction                      l             I3                E                  El
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives              E                E                El
Environmental Objectives             El               X                E                  2
Public Sector Management             E                  )              E                  1
Private Sector Development           XE                                El                 E
Positive Balance of Payments         E                  )              E                  E
Imnpact                                                                E
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(1)                       (1)                         0)
El OEl2



- 27 -
Higl
C. Bank Performancel                   Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                    (V)                        (/)
Identification                                             1x                        I]
Preparation Assistance             I                        D                        i
Appraisal                                                   LD
Supervision                        El                                                [mJ
Higl
D. Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(")            (/)             (/)
Preparation                                   l             E              E
Implementation                                              [              El
Covenant Compliance                                         E              m 
Operation (if applicable)                                   El ai
E. Assessment of Outcome 2           Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Borrower's input to the ICR states that "Performance by the Bank has been satisfactory but the supervision
during the initial years of project implementation was not satisfactory." (See section 4 of Appendix B).
2 Borrower's input to the ICR states that "The general outcome is satisfactory although some targets set initially
were not achieved." (See section 5 of Appendix B).
Co-financier's comments state that "If the outcome is compared to the restructured project (as of 1994), the
project, in our opinion, should be regarded as "satisfactory." (See Appendix C).



- 28 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose                Year of approval       Status
Preceding operations
Energy Technical    Improve the supply and           1987              Closed
Assistance and      distribution of electricity and
Rehabilitation Project  petroleum products in the
(Cr.1806-MOZ)       main urban areas.
Following operations
Pande Gas           Undertake work necessary to      1994             Ongoing
Engineering Project   enable the government, ENH
(Cr. 2629-MOZ)      and the private sector
investors to make a finn
decision to develop the
Pande gas reserves for
export and domestic use.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                       December 1987
Preparation                                                      Jan. - Oct. 1988
Project Preparation Facility                                     May 1988
Final Executive Project Summary                                   September 1988
Appraisal                                     December 1988      October 1988
Negotiations                                  February 1989      April 1989
Board Presentation                            March 1989         June 1989
Signing                                       June 1989          September 1989
Effectiveness                                 December 1989      April 1990
Mid-terrn Review                                                 November 1992
Project Completion                            June 30, 1996      April 30, 1998
Loan Closing                                  December 31, 1996  April 30, 1998



- 29 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY     FY     FY      FY      FY      FY      FY     FY     FY      FY
1990   1991   1992   1993    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Appraisal    3.8    5.9   10.8   14.8    18.3   20.6   21.8   22.0    --          --
estimate                                                         _ 
Revised     3.2    3.2    5.2    6.6       8.8    10.7   13.0   16.9   22.0    --
Actual      3.2    3.2    5.2    6.6       8.8    10.7   13.0   15.0   20.5   21.3
Actual as %    84      54     48     45       48     52      60     68      --     --
of estimate



-30-
Table 5a: Financial and Operational Indicators
EDM - Electricidade de Mocambiqu, E.P.
.______________________ _______           1989      1990      1991 -1992         1993      1994      1995       1996      1997       1998
FINANCIAL                                                                                                                       (forecast)
Working ratio                                                           87%_      92%       95%       79%        76%       68%       61%
Operating ratio                                                        107%_    108%       110%      129%       121%      106%/o     95%
Debt service coverage (times):               . _                  _                             i
Excl interest during construction                       |                          1.9       0.6       1.2       3.9        4.8       1 .9
Exci interest financed during grace period                           ___           1.0       0.8       4.9      26.7        9.6       2.2
Internal cash generation:    I
Exci interest during construction     __                                         20%       20%       -16%       42%        11%       27%
Exci interest financed during grace period_                                       15%      22%        -8%       49%        17%       32%
Return on assets:
Revalued basis                                          i                                           -5.0%     -5.5%      -2.0%       1.8%
Historical basis                                  .                    -2.2%    -3.7%     -4.9%      8.7%      18.0%     35.2%~  23.3%
Days' billing                                                            159      222       173       174        198       179        170
Current ratio (times)                                                    1.9      1.6       0.9       2.o        1.4       1.4        1.6
Debt/equity ratio            _               .  _                        14%i    25%        39%       28%1       35%       35%|       39%
Capital investment (USS million)       _                         |   .   1         15.2     17.1      25.4       49.2      19.3       38.8
OPERATIONAL                 |           _         _          _       _         _         _         _         _
Sources and distribution of power (GWh) _        _                          2
Production from Cahora Bassa:I |                         _         _         _        i         _          ____ i_
-Delivered to RSA                            0        0 °_l     °i        ° 0       0         0         0         0          0      5065
- Transmission losses
-Taken by EDM              i        |                    _        i     95       118       140       138        186       206       617
Production from EDM's stations:      l         lI                           II__
-Maputo power station                          _                         531       171 1__Oj 0                    0          00
-Hydro stations                      _        j  j_j         _ 1    114 1    141           199       178        205       190       210
-Isolated stations         j        j         j_I _               i__      !       311       -1        29        30         31         -1
Imports by EDM:                                                                       I |  i  i  i  i  i  j   j     i        _
-From RSA                  l                   _        I_l  _ l_       530       511st     559       600       597        683       385
-from other countries      j           j       j         _                I        I         I         2         3          3 j
-from private generators   j        j         j_j _               j       0         0         0         0    0          0              0
Total supply to EDM systems |                                           831       818      899        947      1,020     1,113      1,211
I_            I_        I_                 II        I                      _   _    [ ._            _I
Distributed to:62                                                                 60        66        59         64  ___
- Southern region          j_I ___j__625_                                         602j     666j       593_      654j_j               -
- Central region                    2                                   115       154       166       241       242           j
- Central-Northern (Tete) region                                         91        61        67       114       124
- Isolated load centers    I        I         I                    _         _        _        I   _____
Electricity consumption of supply to EDM systems (GWh)                                 ____li_
Sales:                      _         2 _                                                                  _  _    _ _
Industry                                       _______                  158       122       211       238       249        334
Commercial                                                               131      133       125        147       129        139
Domestic                   l          l        I_  l_l_252                        285       259       272       269        306
Exports                     _         j        j___|_9                              1         0         0         2          0
Total sales                _         |         |__    ____              551      542       596       656        649       778        843
Transmission & distribution losses    _         j         j              279      268       296       263        340       301        333
Own consumption                      .                .                  n/a       n/a       n/a        10         it        13        13
Public lighting                       _         _         _____            2         8        7         18        191       20         22
Total energy supply to EDM systems   _         |         __| __         831       818       899       947       10207     1113      1211



- 31 -
Table 5a: Financial and Operational Indicators (continued)
EDM - Electricidade de Mocambiqu, E.P.
______________________  _______ 1989  1990  1991  1992     1993    1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Transmission & distribution losses (Y)                            33.6%    32.7%    32.9%     27.8%     33.4%     27.1%    27.5%
Maximum demand (MW):
Northern system                                                      20       22       24        24      24.8       26
Central system                                                       31      32.9      31        43        48       39
Southern system                                                      98       86       98     103.5    111.9       125
Load factor (O/o)
Northern system                                                    0.52     0.64      0.67     0.72      0.64      0.64
Central system                                                     0.44     0.48      0.62     0.47      0.37      0.40
Southern system                                                    0.63     0.65      0.66     0.66      0.61      0.66
Power outages
Numbers of consumers                                            132,236  136,328  151,480   159,169   171,066   177,793   182,042
New connections (net)                                             5,075    4,092   15,152     7,689    11,897     6,727    4,249
Nos of new pre-paid meters installed in year                                                    282       218      1000      3500
Nos of full time employees                                                                    3,200     3,028     2,736     2,642
Nos of consumers per employee                                                                    50        56        65        69
Consumption per capita (KWh)              44                         54        55       52       52        52
Population having access to electricity  4.2%    4.2%     4.4%     4.5%     4.6%      5.0%     5.1%      5.5%      5.8%
Performance standards (as agreed):  _         _        _____
Numbers of new connections  target   |        _                                                                   7,000     7,000
actual    _        _        _          5,075    4,092   15,152     7,689    11,897     6,727    4,249
Collection rate of elec bills   target    _   _        _ _   _______                                      88%      90%       91%
actual                                                                         89%      93%
Time cycle for meter reading,  target                           ___  _                                     45        45        45
billing & collection (max days actual
Accounts receivable (days)   target                             _        _                                107       103       101
actual                                                                         198      179       170
Operation costs (Usc/kWh)    target   |______                                                              4.1       3.3      3.1
actual                               _______ I_____|                            6.8      5.9       5.3
Clean audit report        target                       _        _______ _______                                     yes       yes
actual                                    no        no       no       no        no        no        no
Numbers of employees-full time target   |                       _        _______| 2,917                 2,816     2,719     2,615
actual   |                           _                             3,200     3,028     2,736    2,642
Annual investments (max US$) target                    _        _                               20.0      20.0     20.0
_actual                     _         _                               25.4     49.2      19.3      38.



-32 -
Table 5b: Financial and Operational Indicators
____PETROMO-C - Empresa Nacional de Petroleos Mocambique, E.E.
_______________________      1989    ~~~~~1990!    1991   1992     1993     19941    19951    1996       1997     1998
_________        _________                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(forecast) (forecast)
FINANCIAL
Working ratio                              90%      82%j    79%~  92%           102%      95%.     94%1    90%.       87%       85%/
Operating ratio                            9%       83%1.    80%       94%      105%      97%      95%       95%      95%       94%
Debt service coverage (times) ____                   13.0     31.1-    10.5      -8.7   -0.4         0.61     2.2        .
Internal cash generation   ____150%                           58%     122%    -955%      -18%j  -596%~  771%    -330%,.
Return on assets:          _    _-1_                                                                          _ _      _1_
Revalued basis             ____-_______    ___                                                              7.4%     5.1%
Historical basis          ____          208.8%   627.9%~  738.9%    95.9%I  -98.3%!   -9.2%    -16.5%    172.7%____
Days'billing                               121~   134         143      1601      199      125       1101      83       115 -__
Current ratio (timnes)   11.4                         13       1.       13        10        .1       10       1.        11
Bebtieuity rtio                         3        4% 3     11%~    380                                                  -______10~
Debt/equity rato                            49/61    11%      38%      92%      126%~   301%1    24%         20%j ___
Capital investment (USS million)                      13       08       6.4       1.6      1.71      1.9      1.6   1 .41  ___4__
OPERATIONAL
Petroleum products sold in Mozambique (m3):____ 
Gas oil                  I ___~_________222,317  218,551  226,750  253,079 1272,037  278,649  272,859-___
Gasolene                                      I41,716   42,381   43,054   48,228   52,932'  54,580 1 58,898
Kerosene                                                   15,626   13,967- 1-5,104   16,111   19,725   22,222   26,719    __
Jetfuel                                                    45,286   34,503   43,633   54,208   22,820   26,780   31,652   ___
Fuel oil                  _______-17,423   16,391   14,1I07   12,344   12,063    8,471    10,615    __
All other                                                   5,697    6,447    3,879    2,911    1,713    1,437    1,246   ___
Total petroleum products excl LPG               399,251  348,065  332,240  346,527  386,881  381,290  392,139  401,989  465,000
LPG (sold entirely by Mocacor) (tonnes             4,726    4,859    3,574    3,9        3,772    3,668    4,066    5,002   ___
Petroleum products sold by Petromoc (m3):       ________                                                                  I
Gas oil                   ___          ___'208,878   171,296  157,787  137,355  140,407  158,135  152,626  144,294 ___
Gasolene                  ____37,660   28,081 125,220   24,384   21,388   21,714   18,546    17,917   ___
Kerosene                           _____ 12,581   11,382    11,457    11,718   10,517   12,857   13,098   14,936
Jetfuel                             _____ 14,669   12,128             ,3       ,54   7,991    6,973    6,415    6,204   ___
Fuel oil                           ._____         7,038   10,865    9,583 !8,330    8,890    7,105    4,642    4,774   ___
All other                                     -     646        0       623      54         97      189       146      206
Total petroleum products          L3721{281,472  233,752  21,0               8,9       8,90  206,973  195,473  188,331  204,000
Petromoc's share of the market:      _      ______                                                            _
Gas oil                   ____    ____77.1%    72.2%.   60.6%W    55.5%    58.1% 0/   54.8%1o  52.9%j ____
Gasolene                   _________67.3%    59.5%    56.6%    44.3%    41.0%    34.0%4.   30.4%1  __
Kerosene                            _____72.8%    82.0%    77.60/o   65.3%    65.2%    58.9%1  55.9%.4
Jetfuel                   ____                 .2.%                  21.8%    15.5%~  14.7%    30.6%    24.0%    19.6%
Fuel oil                                                    62_______ 4____  58.5%    59.0%    72.0%    58.9%    54.8%    45.0% ____
All other                                                    0.%      9.7%j   14.2%.    6.8%      11.1%    10.2%    16.5
All Petromoc             I7.%                    70.5%    67.2%/i   63.9%1  54.6%~ 49.0%.   543           49.8%    46.8%1  43.9%
Share of the market of other companies:;____    ___ 4               ___                ___
BP                                3     26.0%    29.5% 4.32.8%    31.9%1  38.3%    40.5%f   32            34.1%1  36.7%+/
Mobil                            -r      0.0%~  0.0%l    0.0%        4.2%~  6.8%        9.1%    11.0%    11.6%~  11.7%.
Total                         ~~~~~ ~~~~~        ~~~0.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0. 0%a    0.3%  1.4%  1.5%  4.5% 4. 4.8%
_____________________        ~~~~~100.0%   100.0%   100.0%    10.   %   100.0%1'0~     Iwo.%    l00.0%f  100.0%   ___
1             ..                                              I ___~~~~92  43    _89_  853     838
Numbers of employees                       95~ 92             981      96         18      928{    ~     ~    82         5        3
Performance standards (as agreed):                                         [t____________
Provide no product to any client with outsanding arrears in excess of 90 days, after mid-98,  4 ___   ___    ___    ___
Throughput tobe noless than 4times by mid-98 and 6times by mid-99 storage capacity atall termninals &depots.  3___  ____7___
Product losses to be no more than 0.5% wt of product delivered to each terminal & depot (by end 98).  ___    ___     1.49%4
Achieve product sales peremnployeeof303b202                  3        229     206        204      220    219    221~ 
Achieve minimnum annual average of 40,000 revenue km (80,000 km return) per road tank wagon.-__
Achive atverage monithly throughputs of 1 00 m3 at all outlets in Maputo & Beira, by mid-98.
Achieve average receivable ratio of no more than 45das
Pension reserves to be fully funded to meet obligations.
Bad debts not to exceed 3% of annual sales revenue.



- 33 -
Table 5c: Financial and Operational Indicators
Mocacor - Distribuidora de Combustiveis, S.A.R.l.
!1989l    19901    19911      1992       1993      1994      19956                1997     1998
1989  90  1992           _______                   1996~~~~~~~~~191~   19
________________________        19                        r__ _ _         94                       (est actual   (forecast)
FINANCIAL
Working ratio                                                            97%
Operating ratio                                                         100%            _
Debt service coverage (times)                                      Ratios would be misleading as no interest accounted for
Internal cash generation                       _Ratios would be_misleading as no interest accounted for.
Return on assets (historical basis)           .                      -227.1%      83.9%     39.9%     68.1%      18.2%     12.3%
Days' billing               _                                              2         3         7          3         2         17
Current ratio (times)       _         -      [                    [       0.9        1.2       1.1       1.1       0.7        1.4
Debt/equity ratio          I         I_ I___1                            47%       28%       25%        53%       41%         8%
Capital investment (US$ million)            -             _             0.00       0.01      0.15      0.47      0.33       0.52
OPERATIONAL                         -                                                             _          1 _      i  |_|
LPG sold                                                                                                   I
In Maputo                 Itonnes;                4,407 | 4,641      3,390 | 3,578 | 3452      3337             3,690     458
Elsewhere                 tonnes                    319       218        184       215       320       331        376       485
Total                     tonnes                  4,726     4,859     3,574      3,793     3,772     3,668     4,066      5,002
I_       _    II_                                      I                           ._   I       I_
Numbers of employees        ______166,                         1691       165]      1491      140        1331      139       134       139
Performance standards:
In view of the disinvestiture of govemment shareholding (as envisaged at the time), IDA agreed to waive the setting of agreed performance standards.
The target date of September 30, 1994, as set out in the DCA (Section 4.11 (d)), for the setting of performance standards was not met.



- 34 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No indicators were included in the SAR nor agreed with Borrower by the ICR mission.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 35 -
Table 7: Studies included in the Project
Table 7 (page 1 of 6)
Study          Purpose as defined       Status                 Impact of Study
at Appraisal
EDM
1. Accounting       * To provide accounting   Completed    Financial statements, which could be subject
assistance.          assistance to enable                 to external audit, were produced for the first
EDM to prepare reliable              time in 1992. The quality of accounting data
financial statements.                has improved steadily ever since. However,
the underlying records and accounting data
are still regarded as unreliable for the auditors
to continue to express any opinion on the
annual financial statements. EDM has agreed
to strengthen the finance department by
appointment of experienced full-time staff at
head office and in the area offices. A new
billing system will be installed to overcome
considerable accounting and management
reporting difficulties.
2. Financial viability   * To assess current  Completed   Study concluded that average retail electricity
study.               financial status and                 tariffs should be gradually increased to reach
recommend measures to                9.5 USc/kWh. Current average retail tariff is
secure future financial              7.5 USc/kWh; this level is now regarded as
l __________________    viability.                         adequate.
3. External audit.   To engage independent   Completed    External audits were financed for five years
external auditors.                   (1992 to 1996). EDM now finances audit
expenses frQm its own resources.
4. Valuation of fixed   To define EDM       Completed     Financed by NDF. The valuation was
assets.              patrimony.                           incorporated in the 1995 fnancial statements.
The underlying equity and profitability is now
more accurately measured.
PETROMOC                                                                                           l
1. External audit.  To engage external      Completed     External audits were financed for five years
auditors.                            (1989 to 1993). PETROMOC now finances
audit expenses from own resources.
2. Cathodic         Not included at         Completed     Assistance provided in preparing tender
protection study.    appraisal.                           documents for the design, installation and
rehabilitation of the cathodic protection
l__________________  ______________   system s.
3. Valuation of fixed   To define PETROMOC    Completed   The valuation was incorporated in the 1996
assets.             patrimnony.                           financial statements. The underlying equity
and profitability is now more accurately
measured.
Mo,acor
1. External audit.  To engage independent   Completed     External audits were financed for three years
external auditors.                   (1991 to 1993). Mocacor now finances audit
____________________l_______________________ J_____________ expenses from its own resources.



-36 -
Table 7 (page 2 of 6)
Biomass Energy Unit (BEU)
1. Satellite imagery    To acquire and interpret   Completed  BEU purchased two sets of satellite images
and biomass         an estimated 48 satellite             covering the whole country at a cost of
inventory.          images, to produce the                US$58,870. These were used subsequently for
base data on the forest              the production of forestry maps.
cover and biomass                    The following studies were undertaken:
inventory for the                     - time series of biomass stocks in the area
country; undertake field               around Maputo, Sofala, Manica and
verification work in                   Nampula;
critical areas; and                   - inventory of mangrove species in Maputo,
preparation of maps                    Sofala and Nampula.
containing the forest
cover and biomass
inventory information.
2. Improved wood     Identify simple        Completed     Consumer surveys undertaken. The following
stoves.              improved wood and      partially.    study was produced:
charcoal stoves relevant  Abandoned in  - assessment of existing woodfuel
to the Mozambican      the 1994        consumption data and information (1993).
resources.             amendment
in favor of
community
based
resource
management.                                           l
3. General studies.    Not defined at appraisal.  Completed  The following studies were undertaken:
The purpose was to                    - on support activities in peri-urban land-use
identify design and                    and possible woodfuels cultivation options
undertake research                     (1992);
activities to improve the             - woodfuels market structure (1993);
overall understanding of              - commercial and industrial use of biomass
the traditional energy                 fuels (1994);
sector in order to                    - overview of strategies and policies of
enhance the                            biomass (1994);
Government's                          - model for commercialization and financing
capabilities in energy                 systems for Licuati forest products (1998);
policy formulation.                   - managing plan for sustainable exploitation
of forest and non-forest products from
Licuati forest (1998);
- on land potential for different activities and
introduction of cash crops in Licuati forest
region (1998);
- on land use and different options for Licuati
forest community interventions (1998);
- on improved technology for charcoal
production and brick making in the Licuati
forest (1998).



- 37 -
Table 7 (page 3 of 6)
DOE and Others
1. Electrification &  The electrification of  Completed    The studies led to a redefinition of house
distribution studies.   40,000 new households.           structural standards for house wiring and to
The scope was reduced               new design of internal wiring. Methodology
to 4,000 in the Sept.               was developed for targeting profitable
1994 amendment to                   connections.
DCA.
2. Industrial studies.   The objective was to  Not executed
promote the country's
industrial capabilities in
the energy sector.
3. Restructuring of    Not included at     Completed    The Government issued in 1997 a new decree
Petroleum sector.   appraisal. Re: AD Little             on petroleum products, which establishes a
Study. The purpose was              level playing field for all distributors and an
to introduce reforms in             import parity pricing structure with more
the petroleum sector to             effective price adjustments.
increase its efficiency.            Subsidies between products and for certain
geographic areas were removed.
PETROMOC is undergoing incorporation
under private law, with state (80%)-workers
(20%) ownership initially with a plan to invite
a strategic partner.
4. Energy strategy  Not included at        Completed    The study provided the Government with a
plan.               appraisal. The purpose               reference document to guide investment
of the study was to                 decisions and introduction of institutional and
provide the govt. with a            regulatory reforms in the sector.
clearly defined long-
term strategy for the
energy sector.
5. Integrated energy    The purpose was to  Completed.   Mozambican investigators at the University
planning.           develop the capacity of   The local  and other energy related institutions
energy planning and   University    completed several sub-sector reports and a
management in          worked with   database on household energy supply and
Mozambican institutions. technical  consumption. A synthesis report provides the
assistance   characterization of supply and consumption
from         and identifies problems and- strategies for
University of  household energy.
Cape Town,
Energy and
Development
Research
Center.



-38 -
Table 7 (page 4 of 6)
Not included at        Completed     The government is considering the
6. Reform and       appraisal. The purpose                recommendations of the study.
regulation of the    of the study was to
power sector.       advise the govt. on (a)               A program for granting management contracts
the reform & regulation              for operation of small scale distribution
of the power sector, and             installations with the involvement of the
(b) the future structure             private sector is under way.
and levels of electricity
tariffs and mechanisms
for their adjustment.
7. Review of the new   Not included at      Completed     The report highlighted changes/additions that
draft Electricity Law.  appraisal. The purpose            were needed in the proposed law whose aim
of the study was to                  was to establish a regulated, independent and
advise the govt. on the              commercially oriented power sector.
contents of the proposed
law.
8. Financial review of  Not included at     Completed     The govt. is informed of the present fimancial
EDM, PETROMOC    appraisal. The purpose                   position and the financial outlook of the three
& Mocacor.          of the study was to                   enterprises and their ability to service govt.
appraise the govt. on the            debt and provide returns to stakeholders in the
financial outlook of the             future.
three enterprises.
9. Rehabilitation of    Not included at     Completed     Order of magnitude costs for rehabilitation of
the geology building.  appraisal. The purpose             the building are known. The available budget
was to provide the                   for DNE is inadequate for the works required.
concept design and order             DNE is considering either to go ahead with
of magnitude costs for               the rehabilitation or the construction of a new
new installations to                 building after proper funds are secured.
DNE, as part of
institutional
strengthening following
admission of new staff.
10. LPG supply      Not included at         Completed     The potential market is appraised, the present
study.               appraisal. The purpose               supply route by rail tank cars from South
was to investigate the               Africa is selected as the least cost supply
potential market for LPG             option for the time being and PETROMOC is
in Mozambique, evaluate              considering the rehabilitation of the LPG tank
the least cost supply                farm.
options and provide
specifications for
rehabilitation of the LPG
l__________________ storage tanks in Matola.
| Not included at appraisal, but added in September 1994 amendment to DCA.



- 39 -
Table 7b: Technical Assistance included in the Project
Table 7 (page 5 of 6)
Technical        Purpose as defined        Status        Impact of Technical Assistance
Assistance           at Appraisal
EDM
1. Senior distribution   (a) Support & coordinate  Completed  Manuals for the distribution maintenance and
engineer (36 man-    the household                        for inspection were formulated.
months) & 3 Area     electrification program,             EDM has been following the manuals and has
distribution engineers  (b) advise on daily               updated them periodically.
(108 man-months).    systems procedures &
practices, plan &
propose distribution
reinforcement &
electrification projects.
2. Financial        Not provided at         Completed      I financial consultant (36 man-months)
consultant.         appraisal. The purpose                worked closely with Finance Director of
of the appointment was               EDM. Provided advice & assisted in changes
to generally assist the              in structure & levels of tariffs, and instituted
Finance Director of                  stand-alone billing systems for isolated areas.
EDM.
3. Staff training (3  To provide standard   Completed     Standard training courses were formulated.
courses for         EDM courses for EDM's                 Courses are given to the distribution
distribution        distribution engineers.               engineers.
engineers).
PETROMOC
1. Distribution     Work in close           Completed     Better control system for stock of parts for
engineer (24 man-   cooperation with                      fleet was introduced. Operating manuals for
months) & 3 sales    PETROMOC's sales                     maintenance of petroleum installation,
engineers (48 man-    manager to: (a) design              equipment, transportation, depots, and
months).            market strategies,                    loading/unloading were formulated.
prepare systems for cost             Transport control for distribution and tanker
control, and (b) provide             utilization have been substantially improved.
supervision & advice on
quality control, legal
matters, pricing systems,
retail network, market
surveys, business
promotion.
Mo,acor
1. Operational      Provide operational     No assistance
technical assistance.   technical assistance.  was provided.
Precise details were not
defined at appraisal.



- 40 -
Table 7 (page 6 of 6)
Biomass Energy Unit (BEU)
1. Senior energy    Actively support all   Started in    The energy planner provided his advisory and
planner (60 man-   tasks assigned to BEU in  1991 and was  team leadership functions to full satisfaction,
months) and         design, planning &     completed in   making substantive contributions to the
woodfuel specialist   implementation of    January 1994. establishment of BEU. Today BEU has been
(36 man-months).    annual programs, data    Only the    working without expatriate staff.
banks, studies &       senior energy
surveys, and training.    planner was
Work closely with local  recruited.
staff & provide general
technical assistance to
woodfuel/charcoal
marketing & production
units.
DOE and Others
1. Law Firm.        Drafted an electricity  Completed.   The electricity law was ratified in 1997.
law and related
regulations, including
setting-up a regulator,
and concession
agreements.
2. Energy planner (20  (a) Assist in energy  Completed.    New legislation introduced for electricity,
man-months) &       planning at national   National and   pricing policy for petroleum products
economist (20 man-   level. (b) Assist in  foreign       reformulated. DNE today administers with
months).            pricing policies,      consultants    own local staff margin adjustments for
investment plans,     recruited.    petroleum products.
monitoring of economic
& financial performance
of energy agencies,
fiscal policies relevant to
the energy sector.
3. Project          Establishment of project  Completed.    The project coordination unit was established.
coordination &      coordination &         National and   Routines for monitoring disbursements and
irnplementation.    implementation unit to   foreign     compliance with procurement guidelines have
oversee the successful    consultants    been introduced.
completion of the     recruited.
project.
4. Inter Electra -  Assist Inter Electra on    Completed.   Inter Electra established routines for stock
engagement of       the design &           Partex was    control, invoicing and billing systems.
managing consulting   implementation of    recruited.
firm (40 man-       required systems to
months).            enable the company to
meet their obligations
under the project.      _____
5. UCPI -           Extension of ongoing   Canceled in    UCPI was a procurement agency. After
engagement of       assistance to UCPI     Sept. 1994    GOM's decision to decentralize procurement,
managing consulting   sponsored by IDA, EEC.  amendment   this TA became no longer valid.
firm.                                      to DCA.



-41 -
Table 8a: Project Costs (in million US dollars)
Appraisal estimate          Actual cost (est) at completion
Component                                                                   Local   Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign       Total
A( I) Distribution rehabilitation, reinforcement & extension:
Phase -I                                                                                                0.20       4.48       4.68
Phase II                                                                                                0.33       7.44       7.77
Total A(l)                                                             2.49       14.98      17.48      0.53       11.91      12.45
A(2) Institutional strengthening:II
Co'nsultants'services                                                  0.00       0.25       0.25       0.02       4.24       4.26
Vehicles, office equip, materials & supplies                           0.37       2.50       2.87       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total A(2)                                                             0.37       2.75       3.12       0.02       4.24       4.26
sub-total (Part A)                                                     2.87       17.73     20.60       0.55      16.16      16.71
B  PETROMOC                                                                         ..
B(l) Reinforcement of kerosene distribution & storage facilities            0.12        1.50       1.62      2.26       3.28       5.54
B(3) Institutional strengthening                                            0.12       0.75       0.87       0.02       0.69       0.71
sub-total (Part B)                                                     0.25       2.25       2.50       2.28       3.97       6.24
C MOCACOR
C(l) Reinforcement of LPG distribution & storage facilities                 0.12       0.56       0.69                  0.28       0.28
C(2) Institutional strengthening                                            0.00       0.19       0.19                  0.05       0.05
sub-total (Part C)                                                     0.12       0.75       0.87       0.00       0.33       0.33
D DOE
D(l) Woodfuels program                                                       0.62       3.37       3.99       1.92      2.82        4.74
Coal program                                                            1.25       1.12      2.37       0.00       0.00       0.00
D(2) Strengthening of DOE projectmanagement & coordination capabilities      0.12       1.12       1.25       3.42      2.05        5.47
D(3) Strengthening of MOI, MOE & DOEs capabilities                                                           0.00       0.00       0.00
D(4) Studies to promote GOM industrial capabilities in energy sector        0.12        1.62       1.75      0.00       2.01       2.01
D(5) Rehabilitation & reinforcement of cable manufacturing                      I_0.001                                 0.91       0.91
sub-total (Part D)                                                     2.12       7.24       9.36       5.341      7.80      13.14
E  PROLEC
E(l) Electrification of urban households
E(2) Provision of electric materials & electric stoves & pans                  _
E(3) Credit facilities to households for electrification
sub-total (Parts El-3)                                                                                  0.05       0.92       0.97
E(4) Institutional strengthening                                                                             0.00       2.60       2.60
E(5) Rehab of small-scale district power systems                                                             0.00        1.62       1.62
sub-total (Part E)                                                      2.74       8.86      11.61       0.05      5.14       5.20
F COMMERCIAL ENERGY PROGRAM
F(l) Provision of electric stoves & spare parts to households not included in PROI E                         0.00       0.10       0.10
F(2) |Provision ofkerosene stoves & spare parts              I                                               0.00       0.21       0.21
F(3) |Experimental energy efficiency program                 I                                               0.00       0.00       0.00
F(4) Electrical equipment for rehabilitation of consumers' electrical systems   ,                            0.00|      0.00       0.00
sub-total (Part F)                                                      0.501     3.87'       4.3        0.00      0.30       0.30
ITotal, excluding interest                                              8.60      40.70      49.30       8.22      33.70      41.92
Interest during implementation                                          1.00       0.50       1.50      0.69          0       0.69
Total Project excluding fuel imports                S60                          4120        50.80       8.91     33.70       42.61
B(2) lFuel imports                                                           °'0      30.009      30.00       0.00      °_0.00
Total Project including fuel imports                    l9.60I                    71.20      80.80       8.91     33.70      42.61
In percentage terms excluding fuel imports                            100%       100°       100%       104%1       82%        84%1



- 42 -
Table 8b: Project Financing (in million US$)
_________________ _______________   Appraisal estimate  Actual cost (est) at completion
Local   Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign      Total
IDA                                          0.00      22.00     22.00       0.00      20.35      20.35
Government of Denmark                        0.00       3.00      3.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Badea                                        0.00      10.00     10.00       0.00       7.99       7.99
Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                0.00       5.70      5.70       0.00       5.35       5.35
Mozambican companies                         8.40       0.50      8.90       2.88       0.o-       2.88
Government of Mozambique                     1.20       0.00      1.20       5.34       0.00       5.34
Total project finance                        9.60      41.20     50.80       8.22      33.70      41.92
Parallel finance:
Commodity aid funds (SIDA, Norad & IDA)      0.00      30.00     30.00      information not available
Total fmancing                               9.60      71.20     80.80                      i      =



Table 9: Economic Analysis                                           _
MOZAMBIQUE: VILANKULO + INHASSORO ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT                               __        _
1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006       2007      2008      2009      2010       2011      2012      2013
COSTS (in 000s USS)                                  _ __
Investinent alt________  _____
5X160 kVA Genrator                       546 ___   _  _
Distribution Network b/                  834
Supervision                               30 _ __          ==_=__
Total Investment                        1410
Fixed Op.& Maintenance c/                 77     130.0      130.0     130.0     130.0     130.0     130.0     130.0     130.0      130.0     130.0     130.0     130.0      130.0     130.0     130.0
Fuel dt            1                    27.4      61.2      67.3       74.0      79.2      84.0      R8.2      92.6      92.6       92.6      92.6      92.6      92.6      92.6       92.6      92.6
TOTAL COSTS                           1514.4     191.2      197.3    204.0      209.2     214.0     218.2  _222.6       222.6     222.6      222.6     222.6     222.6     222.6      222.6     222.6
BENEFITS
Energy Consumed (060-s - kWlh) e/        850    2000.0    2200.0    2420.0    2589.4    2744.8    2882.0    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1    3026.1
Total Revenues (in S 000s)U            127.5     300.0     330.0      363.0     388.4     411.7     432.3     453.9     453.9     453.9      453.9     453.9     453.9     453.9      453.9     453.9
Net Revenues                         -1386.9     108.8     132.7      159.0     179.2     197.8     214.1     231.3     231.3     231.3      231.3     231.3     231.3     231.3      231.3     231.3
Ub.)
IRR            11%  ===_ _ __   __ ____==__  
Notes:              ___
Figures for 1998 are actual.
at excluding taxes.             _                      __        _
b/ includes public lighting.    _                      _        |                               _
c/ including personnel. I                                                                                                                         I 
d/ based on a gas price of US$ 2.00/GJ and 14MJi'kWh in 1a
el netof1l0%systemlossesand5%stelighting. Demandpjected to rise y 25%p.a.in199,10% in20 -, 7%in 02, 6%in2 03,5%in204-5,andconstantthereafter.
f/ net of public lighting (5% of total conupto)



- 44 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present   Original   Revised          Description of              Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfill-         covenant
date    ment date
DCA         4.01       1        C                          Audited Project accounts.
DCA         4.02       13       C                          EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor
to fulfill obligations under PA.
DCA         4.03       2       CD       12190              Asset valuation of EDM &    PETROMOC completed asset
PETROMOC.                  valuation in 1996 and EDM in
1997.
DCA         4.04       13       C                          Submit studies on biomass
component.
DCA         4.05       5        C                          Adequate staff for project
coordination.
| DCA       4.06       5        C                          Assign qualified staff
| DCA       4.07       9       CP    from 9/90             Annual review of            All covenants met except
implementation.            annual revaluation of assets.
DCA         4.08       10      CD        9/90              Agree household energy
strategy.
DCA         4.09       11       C     continuous           Review by IDA of all sector    Did not prevent EDM from
investments exceeding $10 m.  undertaking uneconomic
investments.
DCA         4.10       13       C       12/91              Purchase insurance.
PA          2.06       2        C        9/90              PETROMOC to review its      Financial performance
financial position with IDA.    deteriorated when
Govermment took over the
setting of prices.
PA          4.01       1        C                          EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor
to submit annual audited accts.
within 9 months of year-end.
PA          4.02       2       CP       FY90               EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor EDM met this only in 1996 &
to contribute 30% of its capex  1997; PETROMOC had a
program from intemal sources. minimal capital expenditure
program.
PA          4.03       2       CP                          EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor EDM met this only from 1995
net revenue to be at least 1.5   onwards. PETROMOC's
times max. debt service.   long-term debt was IDA only.
PA          4.04       2       CP                          EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor Public sector overdues remain
to take measures to recover    too high but improving and
overdues.                  issue being resolved.
PA          4.05       2       CD        5/90      6/95    EDM to submit satisfactory    EDM's delay in meeting this
plan to resolve its financial    covenant badly delayed
situation.                 physical works.



-45 -
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from     8. = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                               11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy! regulatory/institutional action
agency                                          13. = Other
6. =  Enviromnental covenants
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



-46 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
None                                 No significant lack of compliance noted.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                                                         I
Weeks               US$000
Preparation and Appraisal                     41                   90
Appraisal to Board                            6                    14
Board to Effectiveness                        12                  34*/
Supervision                                  158                  518
Completion                                   229                  799
TOTAL                                      446                 1455
*/ Due to the long delay in declaring the Credit effective; this could also have been
classified as regular supervision.



-47 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Supervision Missions
Performiance Rating
Number        Specialized       Implementation    Development
Stage of         Month/           of          Staff Skills          Status         Objectives       Types of
Project Cyc]e       Year          Persons       Represented                                           Problems
Supervision I             11/89           2       FA                        S                 S        -
Supervision ll             5/90           3       FA, PE, RE                S                 S
Supervision III           11/90           3       FA, EC, RE                S                 S
Supervision IV             3/91           1       FA                        S                 S
Supervision V             10/91           3       FA, PtE, EC               US                S         Financial
Supervision VI             8/92           1       FA                        US                S         Financial
Supervision Vll           11/92           2       FA, EC                    US                S         Financial
Supervision VIII           3/93          2        FA                        S                 S         Financial,
Institutional
Supervision IX             7193           I       FA                         S                S         Financial
Supervision X             12193           I       FA                        S                 S         Financial
Supervision Xl             4194           I       FA                        S                 S
Supervision Xn            12/94          2        FA, EC                    S                 S         Financial
Supervision XIII           6/95           4       FA, EC, PtE, PE           S                 S         Financial
Supervision XIV           11/95           4       FA, EC, PE, RE                              S         Financial
Supervision XV             3/96           3       FA, EC, PE                S                 S
Supervision XVI           10/96           3       FA, EC, PE                S                 S         Financial
Supervision XVII           6/97           3       FA, EC, RE                S                 S         Financial
Supervision XVmI           2/98           2       EC, RE                    S                 S         Institutional
Completion                 5/98           3       FA, EC, RE                 S                S         Institutional
FA = Financial Analyst
EC = Economist
PE = Power Engineer
PtE = Petroleum Engineer
RE  =  Renewable Energy specialist



- 48 -
APPENDIX A-1
Mozambique
Urban Household Energy Project (Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
Implementation Completion Mission (February 16-20, 1998)
Aide Memoire
1.   Introduction
1.1         A World Bank mission visited Mozambique from February 16 to 20, 1998 to
supervise the ongoing activities under the Urban Household Energy Project (UHEP) and
explain the completion procedures to the borrower and the implementing agencies. The
mission consisted of Yuriko Sakairi and Boris Utria. The mission conducted field trips to
Santaka, Vilankulo and Inhassoro. The mission met with the officials of several government
institutions, including Direccao Nacional de Energia (DNE) of the Ministry of Mineral
Resources and Energy, PETROMOC, Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM), Mocacor, the
Biomass Energy Unit (BEU) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery, and Instituto
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Rural (INDER). The mission expresses its sincere
appreciation for the cooperation and hospitality extended by the Mozambican authorities. A
list of persons met is attached as Annex 1. The mission coordinated closely with other
energy missions and the Resident Mission and liaised with the financial consultant with
DNE.
2.    Project Implementation Completion
2.1         The mission explained the Credit closing procedure to the borrower and the
implementing entities and provided support to the borrower for preparing its own
contribution to the implementation completion report (ICR). The mission requested the
borrower to complete the evaluation of project implementation and transmit it to the Bank by
May 31, 1998.
3.    Status of the Project Implementation
3.1         Revised Closing Date Most of the Project components were closed on
December 31, 1997. The closing date for Categories 1 and 5 was extended to March 31 and
that for Category 4 was extended to April 30, 1998. Physical activities under implementation
are Nacala network rehabilitation (Category 1), acquisition of prepayment meters (Category
1), and rehabilitation of the small scale power supply systems (Category 5), which are
expected to be completed by the end of March 1998. Training and policy related programs
conducted by DNE (Category 4) are expected to be completed by April 30, 1998.



- 49 -
3.2         Nacala Network Rehabilitation The network rehabilitation work has been
proceeding according to the schedule and is expected to be completed by the end of March
1998.
3.3         Pre-payment Meters The tender to acquire 15,000 pre-payment meters was
issued in September 1997. The Bank issued its no objection to the evaluated bidder on
December 21, 1997. The necessary documents were submitted late December 1997 to CREE
for review and approval for signing the contract. The documents are expected to be
considered by the Executive Committee of CREE. The mission pointed out that the Credit
could be disbursed only for goods and services rendered by the closing date. Due to the lack
of time, the Credit cannot support the installation of meters. In late 1997, EDM approached
KfW for financing the installation/testing of the pre-payment meters and KfW has agreed to
support this activity.
3.4         Small Scale Power Supply Systems The rehabilitation and construction of the
network and power generations in two towns, where natural gas is available, are almost
completed. The service connection to 200 consumers in Vilankulo and 70 in Inhassoro is
expected to be completed in six weeks. Commissioning and testing are expected to be done
during the last week of March. DNE is now finalizing the contract agreement for the
operation of the system and tender documents for bidding. However, an interim management
arrangement is urgently needed to supply electricity until the operator is in place.
3.5         The mission reviewed the economic and financial analysis for the
electrification program for Montepuez. IDA has previously agreed to finance the gas based
pilots at Inhassoro and Vilankulo, but the closure of the Urban Household Energy Credit
makes it impossible for IDA to support further towns under the existing funding. The
forecasts for Montepuez show a likelihood of commercial viability for the operator and
economic viability for the state, and as it is the first non-gas pilot project, it is worth
proceeding with this scheme as a means of opening up Mozambique's options for electrifying
small towns. The next steps involve firming up investor interest and it would be worthwhile
going through a bid process for selecting an operator, based on the plans to date. This would
enable the operator to be involved in the system design before the procurement bid
documents go out.
3.6         Policy Related Issues DNE is preparing with the consultants an energy sector
strategy to formulate a framework for the sector development. The Government intends to
hold a workshop to discuss the draft strategy with stakeholders in mid April. Under the
Credit, DNE is also conducting a comprehensive review of the financial status of
implementing agencies. The review is expected to be completed by the end of April. DNE is
currently finalizing draft regulations governing the establishment and operation of an
industry regulator. External assistance may be required in establishing and making the
regulator functional. The petroleum sector restructuring is under way. PETROMOC is
expected to be converted to SARL shortly. The oil marketing companies have hired a
consultant to finalize the legal procedures to establish a petroleum products import entity.
The entity is expected to be established under the existing company law by the end of April.



- 50 -
4.    Traditional Energy Program
4.1         A pilot community participatory biomass program was completed by the end
of December 1997. Upon the Government's request, the Bank has agreed to provide further
assistance in the biomass sector through the Regional Program for Traditional Energy Sector
(RPTES). A proposal for an RPTES program will be formulated based on the results of the
pilot program. The mission noted that, in order to maintain the experience and knowledge of
the BEU, the unit should be urgently integrated under the national budget.
February 20, 1998



- 51 -
Mozambique
Urban Household Energy Project
List of Persons Met (Annex 1)
Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
Castigo J.C. Langa, Deputy Minister
DNE
Casimiro Francisco, National Director for Energy
Armando Rodrigues, Project Coordinator
Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento Rural
Joao Z. Carrilho, President
PETROMOC
L. King, Commercial Director
EDM
Vincente Veloso, Chairman
Fatima Boene Mondjana, Board Member
Emesto Max Tonela, Finance Director
Carlos Alberto Yum, Commercial Director
City Council, Vilandulo
Pinto, Administrator
BEU
Osvaldo Manso, Forest Engineer
UEM
Lidia A. Brito, Forest Engineer, Pilot Project Coordination team member
Aviation
Keith Baws, Director
Ernst Young
Ibraimo Ibraimo, Managing Partner
Neil Durie, Partner



- 52 -
APPENDIX A-2
Mozambique
Urban Household Energy Project (Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
Implementation Completion Mission (April 20 - May 6, 1998)
2nd Phase
Aide Memoire
1.   Introduction
1.1         A World Bank mission visited Mozambique from April 20 to May 6, 1998 to
supervise the remaining ongoing activities under the Urban Household Energy Project
(UHEP) and to undertake a second phase of project implementation completion activities.
The mission consisted of Yuriko Sakairi and Sunil Mathrani (consultant). The mission
conducted field trips to Santaca, Vilankulo and Inhassoro. The coverage of this aide
memoire is limited to those project components which were still under implementation
during the last supervision mission and those where outstanding issues still require action on
the part of the implementing agencies.
1.2         The mission met with the officials of several government institutions,
including Direccao Nacional de Energia (DNE) of the Ministry of Mineral Resources and
Energy, PETROMOC, Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM), Mocacor, the Biomass Energy
Unit (BEU) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, and Instituto Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Rural (INDER). The mission expresses its sincere appreciation for the
cooperation and hospitality extended by the Mozambican authorities. A list of persons met is
attached as Annex 2. The mission coordinated closely with other energy missions visiting
Mozambique, with the Resident Mission and also liaised with DNE's financial consultant
who was assisting in the preparation of the Borrower's ICR.
2.    Project Completion
2.1         The SDR 17.1 million Credit, which was approved in June 1989 and declared
effective in April 1990 closed on April 30, 1998. About US$3 million is expected to be
canceled from the Credit after the final disbursement has been made. The mission discussed
with the implementing agencies the completion procedures to ensure prompt payment of the
outstanding invoices and their reporting requirements. The mission reminded the borrower to
complete its own evaluation of project implementation and transmit it to the Bank by
June 30, 1998.



- 53 -
Electricidade de Mocambique Components
2.2         Nacala 33/1 lkV Network Rehabilitation The distribution network
rehabilitation was completed as scheduled in late April. The mission requested EDM to
provide a completion report on this component.
2.3         Pre-payment Meters The pre-payment meters for Nacala and Nampula have
been received. EDM has started training staff in Nacala and Nampula to install these meters.
The installation of 15,000 meters and the setting up of vending stations for the pre-payment
of electricity are expected to be completed within six months. The high level of non-
technical losses in these towns is expected to be sharply reduced as a result. This activity
will be supported by KfW at a cost of about US$0.2 million. The mission encourages EDM
to use its improving cash flow for the purchase of additional pre-payment meters in the
future, given the short payback period on such investments through the reduction of losses.
Nordic Development Fund Financed Components
2.4         NDF is financing the consultancy services to supervise the EDM network
rehabilitation in Quelimane financed by BADEA. The work is expected to be completed by
the end of 1998. IDA has agreed to supervise the NDF financing component after the closure
of Credit 2033. The mission expects DNE/EDM to provide quarterly progress reports on this
component until physical completion.
2.5         GOM has requested NDF to agree to the use of about US$0.7 million from the
unallocated portion of their Credit to finance the electrification of the town of Montepuez and
for assistance to DNE for the private management contracting process for the small-scale
power supply systems (see below).
Small Scale Power Supply Systems (DNE)
2.6         Physical Works: Pande natural gas is to be used commercially to generate
power in Vilankulo and Inhassoro. The construction of the distribution network and
installation of gas-fired power generators in these towns has been completed at a cost of
about US$1.6 million. Service connection have been made to about 200 consumers in
Vilankulo and 40 in Inhassoro. Commissioning/testing of the systems has been successful.
The physical components have thus been completed by the closing date.
2.7         Institutional Arrangements: The draft management contract for the operation
of the power supply systems by the private sector and tender documents for bidding have
already been prepared. The tender will be issued as soon as the decree to authorize a three-
year 'concession' arrangement to manage the power supply in the two towns as a combined
operation is approved by the Council of Ministers. This is expected in late May/early June.
GOM plans to remunerate the private operator by means of a management fee which would
represent about a 15% annual post-tax return on the initial outlay of funds by the private
operator.



- 54 -
2.8         Transitional Period: Negotiating and signing the management contract and
mobilization of personnel may take five to six months. Thus an interim arrangement is
essential to provide electricity supply until the private operator is in place. It has been agreed
that the construction contractor will retain staff for maintenance/operation of the facilities.
DNE will provide through its budget personnel including a supervisor and an accountant to
take care of billing/collection. These costs are expected to be covered by revenues collected
after the start of commercial operations.
2.9         Pricing: The principles determining gas prices have been agreed between
DNE and ENH and a decree formalizing these principles is to be presented to the Council of
Ministers shortly. ENH will receive about US$2.50/GJ for gas sales for power generation,
which will allow it to recover the cost of the gas pipeline from Pande and earn a reasonable
return on this investment. The electricity tariff to consumers is expected to be about
2000 MT (IJS¢16.7)/kWh, which would generate revenues adequate to cover all costs
including the management fee and a return to GOM of about 8% on its capital investment.
2.10        Technical Assistance: DNE needs external support to carry out the tendering
process for the selection of a private operator and for negotiation of a management contract.
This is essential to ensure the success of this innovative pilot project that will bring private
management into the power sector for the first time. The mission urged DNE to approach
other donors with a funding request for this urgent, short-term support in the event that NDF
is unable to provide the necessary financing.
Policy Reform
2.11        Energy Sector Strategy DNE is preparing (with assistance from consultants)
an energy sector strategy for sector development as well as a sector policy statement. The
Government held a workshop to discuss the draft strategy with stakeholders on April 23. The
final draft is expected to be ready by mid May 1998.
2.12        Electricity Sector Reforms DNE is currently finalizing detailed regulations
for the application of the Electricity Act. DNE needs continuing outside assistance to better
assess the implications of the ongoing reforms, take appropriate steps to avoid pitfalls and
accelerate their implementation.
2.13        Establishment and Operation of an Industry Regulator DNE is trying to
obtain donor support in designing an appropriate regulator. In the short-term, DNE's
capacity to deal with regulatory issues needs to be strengthened.
2.14        Petroleum Sector Restructuring The restructuring is proceeding, although
more slowly than expected. PETROMOC is expected to be converted to a SARL shortly. A
private oil import entity is expected to be established within the next few months. The
mission expressed its concerns about the slow pace of implementation and encouraged DNE
to accelerate the restructuring process. It also reiterated the importance of divesting
PETROMOC's shares in Mocacor, a recommendation that the Bank has repeatedly made
since late-1994.



- 55 -
Community-based Biomass Pilot Project (BEU)
2.15        Project Outcome: A completion report on the comnmunity-based biomass pilot
project was submitted to the mission. This US$1 million, multi-sector project successfully
introduced to the Santaca community a natural resource management plan for sustainable
charcoal production and new diversified cash generating activities such as brick making,
sunflower oil extraction and a tree nursery. Technology to improve efficiency and
productivity of charcoal production was also introduced to the community. This pilot project
went beyond the confines of the energy sector in its approach and the results are pertinent for
rural development projects in general. However, given that the pilot project has just been
completed, the commercialization of the project's 'outputs' is only just commencing. The
local community will require close support during the commercial phase to ensure that the
benefits from these activities are reaped.
2.16        Sustainability: An arrangement to provide continuous support to the
community (estimated at about $25,000 per month) from the project personnel over the next
6-12 months is critical to ensure its sustainability, but cannot be financed by IDA due to the
closing of the project. For example, the local association to run the tree nursery is not yet
operational and the charcoal producers association has encountered some marketing
difficulties. DANIDA has expressed interest in financing the necessary technical assistance
to the local community from the University.
2.17        Replicability: The knowledge and experience gained from the Santaca pilot
project have a broader applicability in Mozambique. The project staff believe that similar
initiatives can now be attempted in other regions at a substantially lower cost, because the
investment requirements are modest and the bulk of the costs of the Santaca pilot were for
studies and consulting services, which will not have to be repeated on the same scale in
future. Upon the Government's request, the Bank has agreed to provide further assistance in
the biomass sector through the Regional Program for Traditional Energy Sector (RPTES). A
proposal for RPTES support was formulated by BEU/UEM based on the experience/results
of the Santaca pilot program.
Prolec Household Electrification Program
2.18        A substantial quantity (over US$400,000) of unused household wiring
materials and domestic appliances (e.g. more than 3000 electric stoves) funded by the Credit
and imported by Interelectra prior to the cutback in the size of the Prolec program have been
in storage for the past several years. Interelectra is the legal owner of these items, although it
has not been servicing the debt to GOM incurred when these items were procured. Some of
these materials such as cables, sockets etc. could be used in future district electrification
projects. However, the excess stocks, particularly the electric stoves need to be disposed of
in the local market, possibly by means of an auction.
May 6, 1998



- 56 -
Mozambique
Urban Household Energy Project
List of Persons Met (Annex 2)
Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy
Castigo J.C. Langa, Deputy Minister
DNE
Casimiro Francisco, National Director for Energy
Armando Rodrigues, Project Coordinator
Manuel Retagi, Electrification Adviser
Instituto Nacional de Desenvolvimento Rural
Joao Z. Carrilho, President
PETROMOC
Manuel Viola, Managing Director
Teresa Morreila, Financial Director
Aires Viola, Technical Director
EDM
Vicente Veloso, Chairman
Emesto Fernandes, Member of Board
Emesto Max Tonela, Finance Director
Carlos Alberto Yum, Commercial Director
Manuel Cuamba, Technical Director
BEU
Osvaldo Manso, Forest Engineer
UEM
Lidia A. Brito, Forest Engineer, Pilot Project Coordination team member
Interelectra
P. Cuche, Director General
Mocacor
A. Cereja, General Manager
Danish Embassy
Esther Lonstrup, Advisor
Norwegian Embassy
Johan Olav Bjerke, Second Secretary



- 57 -
APPENDIX B
Mozambique
Urban Household Energy Project (Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
BORROWER'S PROJECT EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.1   This report reflects the views of the Government of Mozambique (GOM) on the
project achievements and implementation. It concentrates on a qualitative evaluation
of the project.
1.2  In accordance with the Development Credit Agreement for Credit IDA 2033-MOZ,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its costs and benefits derived and to be driven
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
obligations and the accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit.
1.3   This report is prepared as the Government's contribution to the Bank's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Borrower cooperated with the Bank
in the preparation of data and information needed for the ICR.
2.    PROJECT EXECUTION AND INITIAL OPERATION
2.1  In 1988 the Government of Mozambique agreed on the need to promote an energy
program aiming at alleviating the burden of energy costs faced by low-income
population and, to the possible extent, improve their living standards. At the time of
project preparation the country was subject to widespread war destabilization, the
economy was collapsing, foreign currency was scarce and the macro economic
restructuring program, on its inception, was likely to cause social aggravation.
2.2   The main Project objective was to bring low cost commercial fuels to a large number
of households in urban areas, in an efficient and cost effective manner, through,
among other measures, acceleration of electricity connections, improved supply of a
range of fuels and appliances, improved end-use fuel efficiency in households,
establishment of small-scale credit facilities for electricity connections, fittings and
appliances and provision of choice in fuel use. A second main objective was to
strengthen the operational, management, financial and planning capabilities of the
agencies and energy supply companies, through, among other measures, extensive
technical assistance and reform of pricing and financial policies.



- 58 -
2.3  In parallel the Project aimed at some en-route objectives such as: (i) slowing down
deforestation around urban areas; (ii) alleviating poverty by reducing the cost of fuels;
(iii) testing of improved energy efficiency and management measures; (iv) developing
the use of indigenous natural resources; and (v) encouraging the development of local
institutions and provide opportunities for local industries.
2.4   The Project consisted of the following components:
a) Power distribution system rehabilitation, reinforcement and extension primarily in
Maputo, Beira Nampula and Nacala, and also in other cities. (EDM Component).
b) Reinforcement of kerosene and LPG storage and distribution facilities,
particularly in Maputo, Xai-Xai, Inhambane, Manica, Mocuba and Lichinga and
provision of kerosene and LPG. (PETROMOC and Mo9acor Components).
c) Improve efficiency of woodfuel utilization through development of improved
woodfuel plantations, charcoaling methods and commercialization systems,
improved wood and charcoal stoves, improved maintenance and management of
plantations, forest inventory, etc.. (Woodfuels program - Ministry of Agriculture
Component).
d) Provision of coal stoves and coal to about 50,000 households, subject to
evaluation of a coal testing program (coal program - Ministry of Mineral
Resources Component).
e) Connection of 40,000 urban houses to the power network, through provision of
materials for house wiring, stoves, bulbs, etc., provision of credit to house wiring
contractors and to households. (PROLEC - DNE/EDM/Interelectra/BPD
Component).
f) Provision of about 10,000 electric stoves, 60,000 kerosene stoves, 80,000
kerosene lamps, spares and electrical equipment for rehabilitation of consumers'
installations, provision of capacitors, electric fans and solar panels for public
buildings as part of an experimental energy efficiency program. Rehabilitation of
cable manufacturing plant and related industrial studies. (Commercial Energy
Program - DNE Component).
g) Institutional support for project coordination and implementation within the
Ministry of Industry and Energy, establishment of the Biomass Energy Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture, technical assistance to EDM, PETROMOC, Mocacor,
etc.
h) Policy measures to facilitate financial soundness of energy suppliers, and to
provide incentives, encourage affordability, ensure safety, and ensure fuel and
appliance availability and freedom of choice.
2.4.1    Revised Project: In 1994 an amendment to the Project was made to take into
account the prevailing conditions in the country, resulting from the Peace Accord, the
new economic situation and implementation experience. The major changes covered by
this amendment were:



- 59 -
(i) The number of households to be wired under PROLEC reduced from 40,000 to
4,000 in recognition of the over ambitious target set initially (an increase of 50%
of EDM's residential customers - at the time of project preparation only about
90,000 residential customers were connected by EDM).
(ii) The coal program has been eliminated because evaluation of a coal testing
program in Maputo evidenced the difficulties in maintaining an effective
commercial retailing operation of coal, concerns on aggravation of air pollution
and difficulties to construct adequate stoves from indigenous materials.
(iii) The commercial energy program has been reduced to about half of its original
size because of the improved availability of foreign exchange for imports of the
goods.
(iv) A program of electrification/rehabilitation of district level small-scale power
systems was introduced; and
(v) The woodfuels program changed emphasis from plantation and management of
woodland by government departments into building a Mozambican experience
on community based biomass supply management.
2.5   Overall coordination of the project was done at the Department of Energy (DOE) of
the Ministry of Industry and Energy that in 1995 evolved into the National Directorate
of Energy (DNE) of the Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy.
2.6   The UHEP closing date for the IDA Credit 2033-MOZ (SDR 17.1 million) was on
April 30, 1998. The co-financing by the Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa (BADEA) (US$ 10 million) and the Nordic Development Fund (NDF)
(SDR 4.4 million) was extended to December 31, 1999. The Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA) contributed with a Grant of SEK 1,354,500 fully
disbursed in 1997. The three Credit Agreements were signed in 1989/90, and the
project was originally designed for completion by December 31, 1996. However, the
subsidiary loan between the Government and EDM with respect to BADEA financing
was not signed until 1994 and EDM's disbursements from IDA Credit were
conditioned to the presentation by EDM of a plan to solve its financial problems.
This resulted in significant delays in the implementation of a major part of EDM's
rehabilitation program. The slow start-up of the project, weak institutional capacity,
together with various other external factors such as the disruptions caused by the
cyclone in 1994, delays brought about by inefficient and ineffective bureaucratic
procedures, financing constraints from the State budget and the general weakness of
the national economy contributed to delays in project implementation.
2.7   Under the project, EDM, PETROMOC, DNE and the Biomass Energy Unit (BEU)
have benefited considerably both in terms of operations and/or institutional capability.
Mocacor, on the other hand; did not derive the full benefits as envisaged under the
project, as it did not avail itself to more than 60% the privileged financing under the
Credit. The technical, operational and financial performance of EDM, PETROMOC
and Mocacor have improved considerably although not matched the targets set under
the project.



- 60 -
2.8  In the biomass sector, operations have improved and new concepts tested in
community managed supply of biomass fuels. In addition to its sector coordination,
advisory and policy formulation functions BEU executed two specific studies:
"Biomass Resource Inventory" and "Improved fuelwood and charcoal kilns". BEU
identified, designed and undertook additional research activities aiming at improving
the overall understanding of the traditional energy sector and enhancing the
Government's energy policy formulation capabilities. BEU was integrated in the
Forestry Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries.
2.9   DNE benefited in terms of training, technical assistance for coordination planning and
implementation of specific programs, studies in the commercial energy sector etc.
aiming at improving its knowledge of the issues facing the energy sector and
introduction of policy measures, improved regulation and legal environment.
However continued assistance is required for DNE mainly to develop the reforms in
the electricity and natural gas sectors.
3.    PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
The total external cost of the project is US$36 million from: Credit IDA 2033-MOZ
(US$22 million), Credit NDF 1/89 (US$5.9 million), BADEA Loan (US$8 million), and
SIDA Grant (US$200,000).
In addition funds from several agencies were used for petroleum imports, including from
IDA, DFID (ex-ODA), Government of Japan, USAID, Government of Holland, European
Union.
The GOM and state companies contributed an amount estimated at about US$5 million.
3.1   EDM's components
Reinforcement/rehabilitation of distribution networks:
Pilot Project Matola: EDM and DNE undertook a pilot project in Matola in 1992 to test the
mechanisms involving Prolec. About 150 customers were connected (included in the 500
PROLEC clients mentioned in the following paragraph.). The cable and accessories for this
project and for rehabilitation of other distribution facilities amounted to US$990,000
financed by credit IDA 2033-MOZ.
EDM concluded in the beginning of 1997 the extension of the distribution networks in
Maputo, Matola, Beira and Chimoio with the main objective of the connection of PROLEC
customers, and also other direct EDM clients. The works started in early 1995 by SPIE
(French company) that subcontracted a local contractor, Electrobeira. The contract price was
US$3,491,500 financed by the BADEA Loan. This work allowed the connection of about
3,000 new customers (about 500 via PROLEC). EDM transferred to the new network about
1,300 existing customers that increased the total number of connections to the new network
to about 4,300.



- 61 -
EDM completed the Nacala 33/11 kV network rehabilitation works in late April 1998 with
IDA financing. The contractor was the French company ETDE. The contract was signed in
May 1997 and the works started in the 3rd quarter of 1997. The total amount of this contract
was about US$1,900,000. This represented about 40% of the works planned for Nacala. The
rehabilitation/extension activities will continue under KfW financing.
The works for rehabilitation of the MT Quelimane network started in January 1998. The
total amount of the adjudicated contract to Siemens South Africa is about US$4,500,000 and
is financed by BADEA. There was a delay in the Quelimane network rehabilitation works
that are expect to be concluded by the end of 1999.
The NDF credit covered technical assistance and supervision needed for the works in Nacala
and Quelimane. The total amount of the contract signed with SwedPower for this purpose is
about US$1,000,000 and their assistance will continue until August 1999 for supervision of
the Quelimane rehabilitation works.
EDM is proceeding with acquisition of miscellaneous distribution equipment in 1999 to
reinforce and rehabilitate its networks, using about US$580,000 from the NDF Credit. This
equipment will be installed during the year 2000 using own fimds.
* Introduction of prepayment meters giving domestic consumers access to electricity
according to their financial means:
EDM acquired 15,000 pre-payment meters to be installed in Nampula and Nacala. The
objective is to reduce non-technical losses of the company in the northern region of the
country that represents the biggest amount in losses in the EDM accounts. The contract with
ABB/Conglog (South Africa) was signed in February 1998 in the total amount of
US$1,590,000 and the meters were delivered to EDM Nacala by end April 1998. The
installation will be done during 1999/2000 with financing of KfW (Germany).
* Support in the financial area, particularly in accounting systems:
Under the Credit IDA 2033-MOZ, EDM paid the following activities:
-  Audit Reports (1992, 1993/94/95 and 1996) by Ernest & Young in the total
amount of US$512,000.
- Participation in the ESAMI training of two disbursement officers (US$18,000).
- Study of EDM Financial restructuring by Coopers & Lybrand (US$60,000).
-  Financial assistance to EDM management by Coopers & Lybrand (US$310,000).
NDF financed technical assistance contracts for the evaluation of fixed assets with
Norconsult (US$480,000) and for institutional assistance focusing on marketing and financial
systems with SwedPower (US$560,000).



- 62 -
EDM's operational and financial performance improved considerably. The project allowed
EDM to concentrate in the urgent needs for rehabilitation of the distribution power systems
destroyed during the war and helped to mobilize additional funds from international
development agencies to rehabilitate and expand its transmission and distribution systems.
The financial auditor's reports have reduced the number of limitations to express an opinion
on the accounts over the years. Today EDM is better prepared to connect new customers.
The number of EDM's residential customers increased by over 60%, from 99,928 in 1990 to
160,938 at the end of 1998. The total losses on the energy available reduced from 40% in
1995 to 30% in 1998 and the collection rate versus invoiced energy increased from 84% in
1995 to 92% in 1998. Future prospects are encouraging and EDM is proceeding with the
following initiatives:
* Reduce the high non-technical losses through expansion of the on-going loss reduction
program ("Projecto Nova Imagem") and extension of prepayment metering program
(partially financed by the UHEP) from own resources.
* Further improve the collection performance by provision of incentives and installation of
a reliable and efficient billing system.
D Rehabilitate and strengthen the system network in urban areas to enable the expansion of
the consumer base.
* Introduction of a simplified tariff system in 1999 for the small consumers in low voltage
by eliminating the capacity charge (in line with recommendations from tariff studies
undertaken under the UHEP).
The 1998 average retail tariff was USc7.5/kWh, which is considered adequate to make EDM
financially viable with a strong and healthy cash flow. EDM should be in a position to meet
its debt service obligations and clear the past backlog of overdue and unpaid debt service
over the next three years. The expected improvement in financial performance is partly due
to the availability of cheaper recall power from HCB starting July 1998, and the receipt of
wheeling charges from Zimbabwe since late 1997.
3.2    PETROMOC's components
This component closed in December 1997:
* LPG tank rehabilitation: SIDA financed an independent security/safety survey of the
tanks in Matola undertaken by SGS. PETROMOC proceeded with partial rehabilitation
of the storage facility using equipment and materials acquired under the SIDA trust fund.
The total amount disbursed from the SIDA grant was about US$200,000. Following the
revision of Thompson & Van Eck's LPG supply study and draft tender document for
rehabilitation of the 3 LPG storage tanks, (US$36,000 financed by IDA), PETROMOC
decided to hire an independent surveyor to define the new scope of rehabilitation and
pursue the LPG storage facilities rehabilitation work using own funds.



- 63 -
*  Storage and Distribution of kerosene: PETROMOC used IDA funds to acquire
equipment for depot rehabilitation and increasing the kerosene availability in
Mozambique at a total cost of US$3,00,000. Fire fighting systems, pumps and
miscellaneous storage rehabilitation equipment was purchased and installed at a cost of
about US$1,800,000. In 1996, PETROMOC purchased 5,000 drums, 500 manual pumps,
50 tank trailers with 1,500 liters each, 3 pick-ups, 10 tank-trucks, 17 centrifugal pumps
and 18 meters for distribution under contract to traders or resellers operating in various
towns and villages. PETROMOC continue with distribution of this equipment in order to
increase the number of resellers. This program is being very successful where traders
have participated. However, until 1998 a part of the equipment was not in use because of
difficulties PETROMOC has to find traders with capital to pay the down payment.
Commercialization of kerosene by PETROMOC increased 36% since implementation of
this component, from 13,000 tons in 1996 to 17,800 tons in 1998.
* PETROMOC's capacity building: the company benefited from the following activities
in the total amount of US$686,000 from IDA Credit:
- Consulting service of Profabril experts for the tender documents for design and
installation/rehabilitation of the cathodic protection systems (US$31,000).
- Payment of the expert from Petroleum India International (PII) to assist in
operations management (US$105,000).
- Assets evaluation by Taverner & Associates (US$89,500).
-  Audit reports (1991/92, 1993, 1994) by Ernst & Young (US$461,000).
PETROMOC's sole petroleum importer status came to an end in early 1997, since when the
costs of import and exchange risks have been equitably shared amongst the oil companies
operating in Mozambique. Over the years, PETROMOC has lost its dominance in the market,
and now accounts for about 44% of the petroleum products market. The status of
PETROMOC changed to a limited liability company incorporated under commercial law. A
strategic business alliance with an oil company and selling of non-core assets, e.g. the refinery
process units are planned for 1999.
3.3    MOIACOR's components
* Reinforcement of LPG storage and distribution facilities: Mocacor decided to use
own funds for rehabilitation of their storage tanks. Under the IDA credit, Mocacor
acquired 2 pick-up, 2 trucks, computers, 1 compressor and 1 after cooler in the total
amount of US$276,761.



- 64 -
MOCACOR's capacity building:
-  The audit reports of 1990/91, 1992 and 1993 in the total amount of US$49,500
have been also paid under the Credit IDA 2033-MOZ.
- Mocacor didn't benefit from any relevant technical assistance activity.
Mocacor has made attempts to exploit the market potential during the last years of the
project. Volumes in LPG sales increased by 65% from 3,700 tons in 1995 to over 6,000 tons
in 1998. A considerable part of this increase is in the domestic sector (an increase of 100%
in domestic sales over the same period). New entrants in the LPG business could be
expected in the near future.
3.4   Ministry of Mineral Resources & Energy (DNE) components
*Woodfuels program
The Biomass Energy Unit (BEU) acquired vehicles, general equipment and materials,
amounting to US$1.4 million with the purpose of re-establishing operational and
maintenance capacities including anti-fire warning and response systems in existing
woodfuel forests in Maputo, Beira and Nampula.
Community managed woodfuel supply - pilot project: The BEU (Biomass Energy
Unit) concentrated the activities of this pilot project in Licuati forest in Maputo Province
following a Rapid Rural Appraisal study of the region undertaken by the department of
Agronomy of the University Eduardo Mondulane (US$60,000). The departments of
Engineering and Agronomy of University Eduardo Mondulane were contracted for the
realization of project activities in the total amount of US$1.0 million that were completed
in December 1997.
This project introduced to Santaca Community a natural resource management plan for
sustainable charcoal production and new diversified cash generating activities such as
brick making, sunflower oil extraction, tree nursery and technology to improve efficiency
and productivity of charcoal production. These actions' main objectives were the
introduction of new income sources for the community as a means to reduce the pressure
from the forest exploration for the production of woodfuels. UEM also installed a
residential center in Tinonganine where the researchers have been based during the
project implementation, allowing them and the community to benefit from direct contact.
This pilot project went beyond'the confines of the energy sector on its approach and the
results are pertinent for rural development projects in general. However, given that the
pilot project has just been completed and that the commercialization of the project
outputs is only just commencing, it is early to evaluate project impact and sustainability.



- 65 -
* Integrated Household Energy planning Project: DNE contracted Eduardo Mondulane
University to undertake a characterization study of the supply and demand of household
energy in Mozambique. The Energy Development and Research Center of the University
of Cape Town gave the technical assistance. The total amount of the signed contracts
was US$425,000. During the first phase a database was developed and sector studies
were undertaken. Partial reports of this phase were presented in a workshop in Maputo
with the presence of the various energy stakeholders. The second phase consisted in the
preparation of scenarios for the future development of the energy sector in Mozambique.
The discussion of the results achieved took place during a workshop in Maputo in August
1997. The third phase consisted in the preparation of the draft Synthesis Document with
a recommendation of the national strategy for the household energy sector that was
completed in December 1997. This activity was very important for strengthening the
capacity of local researchers in energy planning.
* Ministry of Mineral Resources & Energy capacity building and studies to promote
the Borrower's industrial capabilities in the energy sector: In addition to the
consultants working directly in the project coordination, DNE benefited from technical
assistance financed by IDA for the reform of the energy sector and for specific studies.
A consultant helped DNE in restructuring PETROMOC and the petroleum sector. A
Legal Adviser was contracted for the preparation of the initial versions of the decree and
statutes for PETROMOC SARL and for the draft management contract for distribution
power systems.
A consultant elaborated the market study of LPG for Mozambique (including the
rehabilitation of PETROMOC's LPG tanks).
DNE contracted London Economics for technical assistance in restructuring the power
sector. They prepared a study with recommendations about institutional reforms and
tariffs regulation. They also assisted in the preparation of the preliminary versions of the
legislation for the management contracts for small-scale power distribution systems in the
districts, for the electricity tariffs, for the concession contract with MOTRACO, for the
Cabora Bassa negotiations and the draft of the Government energy strategy note.
DNE contracted E & G Africa (South Africa) for the design, preparation of the tender
documents and selection of contractors for electrification works for Vilankulo, Inhassoro,
Montepuez and Mueda.
SADELEC prepared a strategic energy plan after various meetings involving various
energy sector stakeholders.
IDA financed the participation 'of DNE staff from the departments of planification, oil,
renewables and legal in various seminars and courses abroad.



- 66 -
DNE needs continuing external support to carry out the preparation of the necessary legal
framework for the operationalization of the electricity act and introduction of reforms in
the energy sector.
The total cost of technical assistance, consulting services, audit reports, etc. amounted to
US$2 million. The training activities and seminars in Mozambique and abroad used
about US$200,000 from the IDA credit.
DNE acquired under the credit vehicles, office furniture, photocopy machines, air
conditioners, computers in the total amount of US$588,000. BEU also acquired under
the credit computers and vehicles in the total amount of US$1,117,300. IDA financed a
study of rehabilitation of the National Directorate of Geology building as a possible
future DNE office.
Under NDF financing (about US$300,000) DNE benefits from consulting services from
local consultants and Nordic Consulting Group in supervision of district electrification
(Montepuez and Nova Mambone), tender for management contracts for small scale power
systems, coordination of activities, planning and accounting.
*  CELMOQUE: From 1991 to 1993, US$914,500 were utilized for the rehabilitation and
start-up of the cable manufacturing plant (US$698,600) and strengthening of the
operational, managerial and financial planning capabilities (US$215,900).
* Electrification of the districts:
A contract with E & G (South Africa) was signed in 1995 for a study of electrification in 4
district capitals (cost US$294,000). The works for the electrification of Vilankulo and
Inhassoro using natural gas was successfully concluded by the closing date at a cost of about
US$1.4 million. The contractor, Massana Aviation (South Africa) started the works in
November 1997. New service connections were made to about 150 consumers in Vilankulo
and 45 in Inhassoro. Commissioning/testing of the systems was successful. DNE continued
to operate the systems until a concessionaire is selected under a tender procedure. The total
number of connections at the end of 1998 increased to about 400.
The electrification of Montepuez is in progress financed by NDF (US$594,000) and the
works are expected to conclude in July 1999. About 200 new connections will be made
initially adding to the existing about 200 connections. Because the study results based on
data of 1995 didn't guarantee a commercial feasibility a revision has been done in November
and December 1997 including new consumers and the new results showed the possibility of
commercial feasibility for the operator and for the state. However, due to the closing date of
Credit IDA 2033-MOZ in April 30, 1998, it was not possible to carry out with this activity
with the financing of the World Bank.
The draft management contract for the operation of the power supply systems by the private
sector and tender documents have been prepared.
A tender document was issued in April 1999 for electrification of Nova Mambone. This
activity is expected to be finalized in 1999 at a cost of US$880,000, financed by the NDF.
About 100 connections will be made initially.



- 67 -
PROLEC (Household Electrification Program):
The original objective of this project was to electrify 40,000 houses by the end of the
project. In 1994, this number has been revised to 4,000. Apart from bureaucratic
problems, the reasons that have led to the connection target being revised were:
- The fact that only about 65% of the population within reticulated areas have been
found to be interested in participating in the project as opposed to the 100%
assumed in the original project formulation.
-  The reluctance of EDM to electrify areas which have not been formally planned
by the urban authorities.
- The erosion of real household incomes.
- The decrease in the competitiveness of electricity in relation to other household
energy source; and
- The financial institution's inability to deal in time with credit applications.
This program will provide electricity to households in Maputo, Zambezia, Sofala and
Manica provinces. The activities of the project were concentrated in Maputo and Matola
city due to institutional problems and lack of infrastructure. After a considerable delay,
the works for construction of the distribution lines finally started in Maputo, Beira and
Chimoio and finished in 1997. This delay and the delay in obtaining the service
connection caused the abandonment and lack of interest in the PROLEC by many
potential clients.
A contract was signed with VKE (South Africa) in 1990 to act as the Project
Implementation Unit at a total cost of US$2.1 million.
Interelectra acquired electric house wiring material, lamps, stoves, etc. at a cost of about
US$900,000 to be supplied under the credit arrangements with BPD to PROLEC clients.
A contract was signed with Partex (US$328,000) to provide assistance to Interelectra in
the stock management.
Over US$400,000 of unused materials have been stored for the past several years.
Interelectra is the legal owner of these items, although it has not been servicing the debt
to GOM incurred when these items were procured. Interelectra will be privatized and
these materials have been transferred to DNE for use in district electrification.
BPD used about US$160,000 to purchase computers and office equipment.
Disbursements for power distribution systems rehabilitation and expansion works have
been conditional to the submission of EDM' s viability plan for solving its financial
problems. This resulted in significant delays in the implementation of a critical part of
EDM's program and contributed to the non-achievement of the target connections. The
fact that PROLEC was implemented outside the control of EDM also contributed to its



- 68 -
failure. It is important to mention that EDM managed to connect about 4,300 customers,
(of which only 500 PROLEC customers and about 1,300 customers from the old grid), to
the grid constructed for PROLEC.
For various reasons beyond the control of the Prolec Implementation Unit, only about
500 houses were connected under the PROLEC, e.g. the decision by the bank (BPD) to
cancel new credit applications for PROLEC, in June 1996; the selected contractor did not
complete the agreed number of households. During the first quarter of 1998 DNE
selected a new company for the internal wiring of the remaining households (26
households in Maputo and Matola).
i Commercial program (Provision of about 10,000 electric stoves, 60,000 kerosene
stoves, spare parts for stoves and about 80,000 kerosene lamps for households not
participating in PROLEC).
Only US$302,863 were disbursed under this component in 1990 and 1991. The project
didn't carry on because the importers were not interested with the provision through the
credit of foreign exchange for the importation of this type of materials.
Using state budget funds DNE distributed about 200 Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFLs) of
which 13 and 15 W in Vilankulo and Inhassoro, where about 400 consumers are connected,
at a cost of US$8 each lamp. About 50 ready boards were also installed costing about
US$80 each. The consumers were offered the possibility to pay the lamps in 3 to 12 monthly
installments but many opted to pay immediately. The attractiveness of using CFL lamps has
been high given the high cost of electricity (on average 14.3 USc/kWh in 1998).
The stoves and other materials purchased by Interelectra for the electrification program are
being sold to the general public under tender organized by DNE or will be used for
expanding electrification to district capitals (part has already been used in Vilankulo,
Inhassoro and Montepuez).
There were ilo activities developed under the component for electric fans and solar panels for
public buildings.
4.  PERFORMANCE BY THE BORROWER AND THE BANK
Performance of the Borrower
Performance by the Borrower was characterized by delays in delivering of its obligations
under the DCA, mainly because of the lack of staff capacity in the middle level of
management.
Regular progress reports started to be produced only in 1995. The performance standards
that were due to be agreed with the implementing agencies by September 1994 were
approved for EDM in 1996 in the form of a Performance Contract and with PETROMOC in
1997.



- 69 -
The main problems identified in the Government procedures are:
- Authorization of contracts: the process for the authorization of the contracts by the
Ministry of Planning and Finance is very bureaucratic and takes a long time.
Such delays caused several times delays in the start of activities.
- Obligation of the Government in providing funds in local currency for the
payment of 30% of the local expenses: the project faced problems due to the non
availability of sufficient funds from the Government Budget for the payment of
local expenses needed for the normal execution.
- The implementing agencies having difficulties in getting accurate debt payment
plans. This is due to the separation between the commercial bank (Banco
Comercial de Mo,ambique) and the central bank (Banco de Mo,cambique).
- Delays in customs to process the paperwork for imports caused delays in the
implementation of activities.
Performance by the Bank
Perfonnance by the Bank has been satisfactory but the supervision during the initial years of
project implementation was not satisfactory. The insistence on conditioning disbursement by
EDM for the initial rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution networks to the
submission of a plan by EDM to resolve its financial difficulties proved to be a major setback
in the implementation of PROLEC.
5.  ACCOMPLISHMENT OF THE PURPOSE OF THE PROJECT
The general outcome of the project is satisfactory although some targets set initially were
not achieved.
EDM is today better prepared to make connections to new customers as a result of the
project. The project allowed EDM to attract further finance from other development agencies
for the rehabilitation and expansion of the power distribution networks and increasing the
connection rates.
PETROMOC is better prepared to tight an eventual fire in the depots in Matola, Beira and
Nacala.
Kerosene is now available throughout the country in a joint effort between PETROMOC and
private retailers resulting from this project.



- 70 -
The import cost of petroleum products decreased as a result of better freight prices obtained
with the introduction of long-term purchase contracts from 1993/1994 in substitution of the
previous imports in small quantities. This achievement was possible because of the efforts in
pooling financial resources from various organizations for oil imports. Better procurement
procedures caused a substantial reduction in the price of imported LPG.
LPG availability continues limited to the main cities, Maputo and Beira. Although an
increase in sales is taking place it is not a direct outcome of the project. A better way to
increase the availability of LPG throughout the country would be through the participation of
more companies.
The financial results of the energy implementing agencies improved considerably. To this
outcome contributed the financial discipline introduced by the project activities, e.g. the need
to provide audited reports. The project contributed also towards adoption of disciplined
procedures for procurement in the agencies that had to deal with it. Today, the Bank's
standard tender documents are widely used for current activities. Procurement of petroleum
products is based on the Bank's standard documents.
On policy reform issues considerable progress was achieve toward a more efficient energy
supply and consumption and increased energy availability and choice of fuels. The
government has defined its policy objectives for the energy sector and is in the course of
formulating a strategy for achieving the long-term aims and aspirations, in the form of a
strategy document. Parliament approved in 1997 a new electricity law whose aim is to
establish a regulated, independent and commercially oriented power sector. The petroleum
market was liberalized in early 1997 and PETROMOC was incorporated under commercial
law as a limited liability company participated by the State (80%) and Staff (20%) in early
1999. Efforts are being undertaken by the Government to establish the rules for a
competitive environment and participation of the private sector in the Electricity Supply
Industry. Draft regulations of the electricity sector have been prepared and will be discussed
and finalized in 1999/2000. The participation of the private sector in electricity distribution
through management concessions was regulated at the end of 1998 and the first tenders for
Vilankulo, Inhassoro, Nova Mambone and Montepuez have been issued in May 1999. The
management contracts covering these villages will be awarded in 1999. Performance
standards have been agreed with EDM and PETROMOC.
The reforms introduced in the petroleum sector, mainly the removal of PETROMOC's
import monopoly and price setting mechanism eased PETROMOC from a heavy financial
burden with product imports and allowed a sustainable improvement of its financial results.
The policy measures and market reforms introduced in the petroleum and electricity sectors
are sustainable, will develop further in line with the objectives of increasing access to modem
forms of energy, in a safe and efficient manner to increased parts of the country.



- 71 -
The Santaca project provided a valuable experience and training opportunity for local staff in
the University, DNE, BEU, etc. to expand the concept of community managed supply of
biomass fuels to other regions in danger of deforestation. This prograrn is continuing under
the RPTES.
BEU carried out its activities in accordance with the project definition in an efficient and
diligent manner. BEU accumulated considerable knowledge on the traditional energy sector
situation in Mozambique.
A pool of competent staff in energy matters has emerged in the energy sector agencies and
also in the University Eduardo Mondulane, as a major outcome of this project. This staff has
been involved in various areas of activity from operations to policy formulation, planning,
investigations, management, etc.
Maputo, June 1999



- 72 -
DN Energia
PRICES OF HOUSEHOLD ENERGY
Natural                                         Woodfuel - Woodfuel - Electric. -
1999 June          Gas    LPG   Kerosene Charcoal Coal - min. Coal mix.  min.    mix.    EDM
unit                            kWh      kg      lit      kg      kg      kg       kg      kg      kWh
Average consumpt. unitmonth       208                                                                227
Price               MT/unid      424   5,652   2,120   5,000       250     300   1,429   1,571       681
Heating Value       MJ/unid              45.6    35.0    29.0    25.0    25.0    13.0    13.0
End use Eficiency      %          50%     50%     25%     12%      20%     20%       8%      8%      65%
Useful energy price  Mt/Mjused    236     248     242   1,437       50      60   1,374   1,511       291
MJ/kWh        3.6                                                                 3.6
exchange rate                  12,450  12,450  12,450  12,450  12,450  12,450  12,450  12,450  12,450
Natural                                         Woodfuel - Woodfuel - Electric. -
1989 May           Gas    LPG   Kerosene Charcoal Coal - min. Coal mix.  min.    mix.    EDM
unit                            kWh      kg      lit     kg       kg      kg       kg      kg      kWh
Average consumpt. unit/month      208                                                                227
Price               MT/unid               344     175     200       20      30       33      35       22
Heating Value       MJ/unid               45.6      35      29      25       25      13       13
End use Eficiency      %          50%     50%     25%     12%      20%     20%       8%      8%      65%
Useful energy price  Mt/Mjused             15      20      57        4       6       32      34       10
MJ/kWh        3.6                                                                3.6
exchange rate                     700     700      700     700     700      700     700      700     700
Cost of Household Energy
120.0-_
100.0
80.0
60.0     -_                      -          _       Woodfuel - max.
Charcoal
Woodfuel - min.
40.0                                         Electric. - EDM
_ 0;30 i | - LPG
Kerosene
Natural Gas
Coal max
WnCoal - min.
1999     1989
comparacao dos pregos de energia.xls/Sheetl



- 73 -
APPENDIX C
Mozambique
Urban Household Energy Project (Credit No. 2033-MOZ)
CO-FINANCIER'S COMMENT (NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND)
1.          I want to thank you for the very comprehensive completion report you have
prepared. The description of achievements and problems strikes a note with us and we
basically agree on your findings. If the outcome is compared to the restructured project (as of
1994) the project, in our opinion, should be regarded as "satisfactory". Many of the "new"
components implemented during the last years or still to be implemented are results of the
project and the "chosen path" for the sector in the future.
2.          We appreciate the opportunity to comment on the report, which we also will
use as an input into our own assessment of this particular project and of similar interventions.
3.          We think the very difficult circumstances under which the project was
implemented, and the profound social changes that took place during that period, might be
highlighted a bit more, as mitigating circumstances.
4.          It would be appropriate to have a specific mention of the rehabilitation of the
cable factory in the objectives and components description, even if the World Bank did not
finance that part.
5.          We furthermore do not find that all of the components are described including
the restructuring in 1994 and may be the outcome in relation to this effect. It might be
considered for the future to add an annex with the project components and planned financing
compared to the outcome, to give an overview of the total integrated project and the outcome.
6.          In addition to mentioning NDF as a co-financing institution, it would be
appreciated if you could include a sentence or two on your experience with NDF as a partner.
Was NDF helpful, flexible, did it contribute to solving problems or did it add to them?
7.          The NDF financed components are not yet implemented though you state end
1998 (page iv point xiii). End 1999 should be the likely time of completed implementation.



MAP SECTION



3 / ZAIRE  \?UJT                     L~7T""                    W 63'4'
TANZMNIA                               ~~~TANZANIA
ANGOLA                                                                              /     N
ZAMrBIA  XI1                                                                                        i
050(084~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~/t                                                                                    12
AFRICA-
/MALAWI    I             tsf5 
ZAMBIA                                                   NCi     T. -iEI   l    R'               0~
N                            . -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
In Bind-r                                                                                F
6'i,                                 I   -                                                                                 8
Morrone ~I ub
I10 kV Line. .''..
tn Hororn
1.  sO   '" ~~nnd  '-URBNHUEOD NRG   PROJECT
-  -        ENERGYE SUPPYFACILITIES--
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PL
22'                                kuto~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     28 Lf'E
THEWAAL1POW0R LAWSh
NAILROAWAS
Or      -                         FQOR6BUAS, FOR KNWER suIotfy:
24                                                               @   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WW' WIT GA D CCOER OR AS SHOWS24
A F R IC A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VRCALJN
*C. 14MW    Moi 1 1   '        'A                                    kELS STORAGE
t. Amt~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    0        202       300
f  MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11200
30                   SOT       IA        4"-                                       '



