Page  1
                                      Administration Agreement related to
                                                      Credit No. 2033-MOZ
                         Administration Agreement
                     (Urban Household Energy Project)
                                  between
                          NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND
                                    and
                          NORDIC INVESTMENT BANK
                                 as Agent
                                    and
                     NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated September 27, 1990
                                      Administration Agreement related to
                                                      Credit No. 2033 MOZ
                         ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT
                     (Urban Household Energy Project)
      AGREEMENT dated September 27, 1990 between NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND
(hereinafter called "NDF"), NORDIC INVESTMENT BANK (hereinafter called the
"Agent") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
"IDA").
      WHEREAS
      (A)   NDF and IDA have agreed to assist in financing the Urban
Household Energy Project (the "Project") as follows:
      1)    IDA has entered into a Development Credit Agreement, Credit No.
            2033 MOZ, with the People's Republic of Mozambique (the
            "Borrower") dated September 28, 1989 (the "IDA Credit
            Agreement") under which IDA has agreed to lend to the Borrower,
            on the terms and subject to the conditions therein set forth or
            referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
            seventeen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
            (SDR 17,100,000) (the "IDA Credit") to assist in the financing
            of Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project; and
      2)    NDF has entered into a Credit Agreement, Credit No. 1/89, with
            the Borrower dated September 28, 1939 (the "NDF Credit
Page  2
            Agreement") under which NDF has agreed to lend to the Borrower,
            on the terms and subject to the conditions therein set forth or
            referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four
            million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
            4,400,000) (the "NDF Credit") to assist in the financing of
            Parts A, D and F of the Project;
      (B)   in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement between NDF and the
Agent dated March 9, 1989, NDF has delegated to the Agent the following
functions: financial administration of the NDF Credit, including disburse-
ments, billing and collection of debt service payments; monitoring the
Borrower's compliance with the terms of the NDF Credit Agreement; and
supervision of procurement under the NDF Credit Agreement;
      (C)   the NDF Credit Agreement provides that a portion of the NDF
Credit shall be disbursed through Special Account D opened and maintained
by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.02(b) of the IDA Credit
Agreement, and provides further that the Borrower shall act in conformity
with certain provisions of the IDA Credit Agreement; and
      (D)   at the request of NDF, IDA has agreed to administer the
disbursement of the relevant portion of the NDF Credit through Special
Account D, and generally to keep NDF and the Agent informed of the progress
of the Project.
      NOW THEREFORE NDF, the Agent and IDA hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      Disbursement of the NDF Credit
      Section 1.01. (a) All proceeds of the NDF Credit to be used for
financing (i) the provision of equipment, materials, supplies and spare
parts under Part D.6(a) of the Project and (ii) consultants' services under
Part D.6(b) of the Project shall be deposited by the Agent into Special
Account D and thereafter administrated by IDA,. Such proceeds (the 'Special
Account Proceeds') shall not exceed in the aggregate approximately nine
hundred thirty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 930,000).
      (b)   All other proceeds of the NDF Credit shall be disbursed directly
by the Agent in accordance with procedures agreed upon by NDF and the
Borrower.
      Section 1.02. (a) The Borrower may request that Special Account
Proceeds be deposited into Special Account D in installments not to exceed
approximately two hundred thirty-five thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
235,000).
      (b)   Deposits of Special Account Proceeds into Special Account D
shall take place in the following manner:
            (i)   The Borrower shall furnish to IDA requests for deposits
                  of Special Account Proceeds into Special Account D in
                  accordance with the procedure set forth in Schedule 6 to
                  the IDA Credit Agreement (hereinafter referred to as
                  Schedule 6). For the purpose hereof, the term eligible
                  expenditures" as used in Schedule 6 shall mean
                  expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
                  and services required for Parts D.6(a) and D.6(b) c,9 the
                  Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the NDF
                  Credit allocated from time to time to Category 2 in Annex
                  1 to the NDF Credit Agreement.
            (ii)  Requests for deposits of Special Account Proceeds shall
                  be in such form as IDA shall specify (which shall be the
                  same form as IDA requires for deposits into Special
                  Account D under the IDA Credit Agreement) and shall be
                  accompanied such documents and other evidence of eligible
                  expenditures as IDA may require.
            (iii) The first request for deposit of Special Account Proceeds
                  shall be submitted together with the Borrower's request
Page  3
                  to IDA for withdrawal of the Authorized Allocation (as
                  defined in Schedule 6). Subsequent requests shall be
                  submitted together with the Borrower's requests to IDA
                  for replenishment of Special Account D.
            (iv)  When IDA shall have approved a request for deposit of
                  Special Account Proceeds, it will notify the Agent that
                  it has received such a request in the aggregate amount
                  specified in such notification. that it has approved such
                  request in accordance with the procedures set forth in
                  Schedule 6 and that the Agent shall deposit the requested
                  amount of Special Account Proceeds into Special Account
                  D.
            (v)   Upon receipt of notification from IDA pursuant to clause
                  (iv) above, the Agent shall, subject to (c) below, within
                  five (5) Helsinki banking days, deposit into Special
                  Account D the amount of Special Account Proceeds stated
                  in such notification and shall notify IDA of such
                  deposit.
      (c)   Each deposit of Special Account Proceeds into Special Account
D in accordance wit,L paragraph (b) above shall constitute a drawdown by the
Borrower under Section 2.02 of the NDF Credit Agreement of an amount of the
NDF Credit equal to the amount of such deposit. Consequently, the deposit
of Special Account Proceeds into Special Account D is subject to the
conditions of disbursement set forth in Article VIII of the NDF Credit
Agreement (with the exception of the condition set forth in Section 8.01(a)
of such Agreement). IDA shall have no responsibility for monitoring
compliance with such conditions of disbursement.
      (d)   IDA shall, at the Agent's request, furnish the Agent with a copy
of any or all of the Borrower's requests for deposit of Special Account
Proceeds, including any documents or other evidence that accompanied such
request or requests.
      Section 1.03. (a) While totally financed by NDF: (i) equipment,
materials, supplier and spare parts under Part D.6(i) of the Project shall
be procured in accordance with Section I, Parts A to C of Schedule 7 to the
IDA Credit Agreement, and (ii) consultants' services under Part D.6(b) of
the Project shall be procured in accordance with Section II of Schedule 7
to the IDA Credit Agreement. Such procurement shall be supervised by IDA in
accordance with its normal procedures.
      (b)   Payments of Special Account Proceeds by the Borrower out of
Special Account D shall be governed by, and made in accordance wit;h,
Schedule 6. !DA hereby undertakes to monitor such payments to ensure that
they are made exclusively for eligible expenditures (as defiled above).
      (c)   IDA shield maintain, in accordance with its customary
procedures, records showing that Special Account Proceeds have been paid out
of Special Account D exclusively for eligible expenditures (as defined
above). IDA shall respond promptly to any reasonable request by the Agent
for information concerning such expenditures.
      Section 1.04. Notwithstanding Section 1.02, the Agent shall not ba
obligated to make any deposit of Special Account Proceeds into Special
Account D if NDF shall have suspended in whole or in part the Borrower's
right to draw down the NDF Credit. The Agent shall promptly notify IDA of
any such suspension.
      Section 1.05. IDA shall promptly remit to the Agent the aggregate
amount of any Special Account Proceeds refunded to IDA by the Borrower in
accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 6.
                                ARTICLE II
              Special Provisions of the NDF Credit Agreement
      Section 2.01. The NDF Credit Agreement imposes certain obligations on
the Borrower that are the same as or refer to obligations imposed by the IDA
Credit Agreement, as follows:
Page  4
      (a)   Section 4.01(b) of the NDF Credit Agreement imposes on the
Borrower the same obligations as Section 3.01 (b) of the IDA Credit
Agreement with respect to carrying out Parts D, E and F of the Project.
      (b)   Section 4.02 of the NDF Credit Agreement provides that the.
obligations referred to in Section 3.03 of the IDA Credit Agreement shall
be carried out: (i) in respect of Part A of the Project, by EDM pursuant to
Section 2.03 of the EDM Project Agreement, and (ii) in respect of Parts 0
and F of the Project, by the Borrower pursuant to Section 4.01(a) of the NDF
Credit Agreement.
      (c)   Section 5.02 of the NDF Credit Agreement imposes on the Borrower
the same obligations as Section 4.02(a) of the IDA Credit Agreement.
      (d)   Section 5.06 of the NDF Credit Agreement imposes on the Borrower
the same obligations as Section 4.07 of the IDA Credit Agreement, with the
exception of the obligations relating to PETROMOC, and MOCACOR.
      (e)   Section 5.07 of the NDF Credit Agreement provides that the
Borrower shall comply with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the IDA Credit
Agreement.
      (f)   Section 5.08 of the NDF Credit Agreement imposes on the Borrower
the same obligations as Section 4.11(a) of the IDA Credit Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                             Consultation and
                          Exchange of Information
      Section 3.01. For purposes of applying Section 8.01(c)(ii) of the NDF
Credit Agreement, IDA shall inform the Agent when all the conditions
precedent to effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agreement have been met.
      Section 3.02. For purposes of applying paragraph 2 of Annex I to the
NDF Credit Agreement, IDA shall inform the Agent when:
            (i)   the Borrower has furnished to IDA a plan satisfactory to
                  IDA to resolve EDM's financial situation;
            (ii)  EDM has implemented a tariff increase for the second half
                  of fiscal year 1989; and
            (iii) the Borrower has furnished to IDA satisfactory action
                  plans for recovering arrears of account receivables due
                  to EDM.
      Section 3.03.  (a)  IDA shall promptly, to the extent practicable,
inform the Agent whenever it proposes:
            (i)   to amend the IDA Credit Agreement in any material
                  respect;
            (ii)  to suspend, in whole or in part, the right of the
                  Borrower to make withdrawals under the IDA Credit
                  Agreement; or
            (iii) to declare the indebtedness of the Borrower under the IDA
                  Credit Agreement to be due and payable in advance of the
                  maturity thereof.
      (b)   The Agent shall promptly, to the extent practicable, inform IDA
whenever NDF proposes:
            (i)   to amend the NDF Credit Agreement in any material
                  respect;
            (ii)  to suspend, in whole or in part, the right of the
                  Borrower to draw down funds under the NDF Credit
                  Agreement; or
Page  5
            (iii) to declare the indebtedness of the Borrower under the NDF
                  Credit Agreement to be due and payable in advance of the
                  maturity thereof.
      (c)   In any case described in (a) or (b) above, NDF and IDA shall,
to the extent practicable, afford each other a reasonable opportunity, in
advance of taking the proposed action, to exchange views with respect
thereto. Each party, however, shall retain its independent right of decision
and action under the NDF Credit Agreement and the IDA Credit Agreement,
respectively, including the right to permit continued disbursement
thereunder notwithstanding suspension or cancellation of the other
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Agent and IDA shall promptly inform each other of
any cancellation or repayment in advance of maturity by the Borrower of arty
amount of the NDF Credit or the IDA Credit, respectively.
      Section 3.05. IDA shall keep NDF and the Agent informed generally of
the progress of the Project, including the status of implementation of the
provisions referred to in Article 11 of this Agreement. To that end, IDA
shall furnish the Agent with:
            (i)   copies of IDA's reports on the Project, including the
                  findings of inspections and supervision by IDA staff
                  members; and
            (ii)  copies of the progress and relevant audit reports
                  furnished to IDA pursuant to the IDA Credit Agreement.
      Section 3.06. IDA shall inform the Agent beforehand of any scheduled
supervision mission and afford NDF/Agent personnel the opportunity to
participate therein, subject to the concurrence of the Borrower.
      Section 3.07. The Agent and IDA shall, at the request of either party,
exchange views with respect to the progress of the Project and any other
matters relating to NDF's or IDA's financing of the Project.
      Section 3.08. IDA and the Agent shall inform each other of any event
of which it is aware that, in its judgment, may interfere with the carrying
out of the Project (including the implementation of the respective Credit
Agreements) or the realization of the benefits thereof (including but not
limited to any matters relating to the economic situation of the Borrower).
                                ARTICLE IV
                               Miscellaneous
      Section 4.01. IDA shall exercise the same care in the discharge of its
functions under this Agreement as it exercises with respect to the
administration and management of its own affairs.
      Section 4.02.  This Agreement shall become effective as of the date
first above written and, subject to Section 4.03 hereof, shall continue in
effect until the entire proceeds of the NDF Credit have been repaid (or such
shorter period as NDF, the Agent and IDA may agree upon).
      Section 4.03. This Agreement may be terminated by any party hereto,
provided that such party gives the other parties hereto at least ninety (90)
days prior written notice of such termination.
      Section 4.04. This Agreement may be amended only by written agreement
among the parties hereto.
      Section 4.05. NDF shall pay to IDA a fee of one percent (1%) of the
Special Account Proceeds referred to in Section 1.01 of this Agreement for
the administrative services to be performed by IDA pursuant to this
Agreement. Such fee shall be paid within forty five (45) days after IDA has
approved the Borrower's first request for deposit of Special Account
Proceeds into Special Account D in accordance with Section 1.02(b)(iv) of
this Agreement.
      Section 4.06. Any written communications concerning the matters
Page  6
subject to THIS Agreement shall be sent, by first-class mail (postage
prepaid) or by telex or telefax, to the following addresses:
      For NDF:
            Nordic Development Fund
            P.O. Box 185
            SF-00171 Helsinki
            Finland
            Telex: 124704 nib sf
            Telefax: 358-0-1800455
      For NIB:
            Nordic Investment Bank
            P.O. Box 249
            SF-00171 Helsinki
            Finland
            Telex.: 124704 nib sf
            Telefax: 358-0-100282
      For IDA:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Telex: FTCC 82987
            Telefax: (202) 477-6391
      Section 4.07. Terms used but not defined herein shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in the NDF Credit Agreement.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first
above written.
      NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND
By: /s/ Karl I. Ohman               By: /s/ Ole L. Poulsen
      NORDIC INVESTMENT BANK
By: /s/ Eivind Dingstand            By: /s/ Sir Hellen
      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By: /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Page  7
