Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2033 MOZ
Project Agreement
(Urban Household Energy Project)
between 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
and 
ELECTRICIDADE DE M0CAMBIQUE
Dated September 28, 1989 
CREDIT NUMBER 2033 MOZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ELECTRICIDADE DE MOCAMBIQUE (EDM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower) and the Association, the-Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to three million three hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(3,350,000 SDR), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that EDM agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
 by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and EDM, part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to EDM on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS EDM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EDM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project, and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EDM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Pro ect Agreement and Part A of the 
Project.
Section 2.04. EDM shall duly perform all its obligations under the EDM 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDM shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EDM shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the EDM Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
 EDM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by EDM of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. EDM shall, not later than September 30, 1993, conduct jointly with 
the Association, a review of EDM's financial position and an assessment of its most 
immediate financial and technical needs to achieve financial viability.
Section 2.07. In order to facilitate the carrying out of Part A of the Project, 
EDM shall assign qualified local counterpart staff to work closely with the 
consultants employed under the Project and to receive training from them.
Section 2.08. EDM shall take all the necessary measures to maintain accurate and 
complete records related to the implementation of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.09. EDM shall:
(a)
 not later than March 31, 1990, sign a contract satisfactory to the 
Association to employ consultants' services to carry out a study including EDM's 
tariff levels and structure, billing system and tariff adjustment mechanism;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1992: (i) review with the Borrower and the 
Association the recommendations of said study; and (ii) agree with the Association on 
an action plan to implement said recommendations; and
(c)
 promptly thereafter, carry out said action plan according to a timetable 
agreed with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EDM
Section 3:01. EDM shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices, under 
Page  3
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EDM shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EDM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EDM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b)
EDM shall, starting in fiscal year 1992:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) and Special Account A for each fiscal 
year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than nine months after the end of each such 
year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as 
so audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and financial statements 
as 
well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDM shall 
produce:
(i)
for its fiscal year 1989, funds from internal sources 
equivalent to not less than twenty percent (20%) of EDM's 
capital expenditures incurred for that year; and
(ii)
for the fiscal years 1990 and thereafter, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than thirty percent 
(30%) of the annual average of EDM's capital expenditures 
incurred, or 
expected to be incurred, for that year and the 
next two following 
fiscal years.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, EDM shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by EDM and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EDM would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for EDM's fiscal years covered by such review, EDM shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, but not limited to, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
 For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
Page  4
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer deposits and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, net 
nonoperating 
income and any reduction in working 
capital other than cash; 
and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance and 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes (excluding 
provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash 
operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all 
cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of 
surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash 
and cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related 
to operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above.
(iii)
The term 'working capital other than cash" means the 
difference between current assets excluding cash and 
current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash' means all assets 
other than cash which could, in the ordinary course of 
business, be converted into cash within twelve months, 
including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to 
operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which 
will become due and payable or could, under circumstances 
then 
existing, be called for payment within twelve months, 
including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements' means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 
any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term 'capital expenditures' means all expenditures 
incurred on account of fixed assets, including interest 
charged to construction, related to operations.
(viii) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on 
the basis of 
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EDM shall not 
incur any debt, unless the net revenues of EDM for the fiscal year immediately 
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior 
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times 
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of EDM for any succeeding fiscal year 
on all debt of EDM, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
 For the purposes of this Section:
Page  5
(i)
The term "debt' means any indebtedness of EDM maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) By EDM or by the 
Borrower and subsequently transferred to EDM; (B) under a 
loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt or for 
the modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or 
instrument; and (C) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term 'net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted to take account of EDM's rates 
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt, 
even though 
they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to 
which such revenues relate, 
and net nonoperating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term 'net non-operating income" means the difference 
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related 
to operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 
any) 
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be 
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation 
shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such 
other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on 
the basis of 
a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. EDM shall take all the necessary measures to implement the action 
plan for recovering its arrears of accounts receivable in accordance with the 
timetable agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.05. EDM shall, promptly after the Effective Date, submit to the 
Borrower a satisfactory plan to resolve EDM's financial situation.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
EDM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
Page  6
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify EDM of this event.
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For EDM:
Electricidade de Mocambique
Avenida Agostinho Neto 70
P.O. Box 2447
Maputo
People's Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:                   Telex:
ELECTRICIDADE             6407 DNEMP MO Maputo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EDM may be 
taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person or persons as EDM shall 
designate in writing, and EDM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ELETRICIDADE DE MOCAMBIQUE
By /s/ Abdul Magid Osman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Goods and works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Mozambique may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, EDM may grant a margin of preferences to domestic contractors in accordance 
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Local competitive bidding
(a)
Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $200,000; and (b) works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost 
less than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis  of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with  procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
International shopping
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $450,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least two different 
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Direct contracting:
Goods and works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost UP to an aggregate 
Page  8
amount of $50,000 may be awarded on the basis of direct contracting in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
Special Account A, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of Special Account A in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of Special Account A, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract, 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
obtained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
In order to assist EDM in carrying out Part A of the Pro ect, EDM shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency' published by the Bank in August 1981.
