RESTRICTED
FILE      copy                            Report No. P-429
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
IRAN
FOR
A
FEEDER ROADS PROJECT
April 16, 1965



REPORT AND RECOM  ]EDDATION OF THE PRESIDEUT
TO TE] EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PltOPOSED
LOANT TO IR.U FOR A FEED3P ROADS PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation  on a proposed loan
to Iran in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$835 million.  The
loan would be used to assist in financling the construction of feeder roads in
six important agricultural areas of the country. Th.ese roads are part of a
program of feeder road construction under Iran's Third Five-Year Econoroic
Development Plan.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     Since 1956 the Bank has made five loans to Iran.  Including the
currently proposed third loan for main roa'ds, the prooosed loan would be the
fourth provided to help Iran build and improve its road system, a program of
high priority in the economic development of the countryr.
3.     The need to link the growing highway system with agricultural areas by
means of feeder roads was pointed out by the Bank in 1959 when the first road
loan was made.  For various reasons, however, the Government did not pursue
the Bank's recommendations at that time.
4.     A Bank mission which visited Iran in August/September 1964 took this
question up again with the Government and it wJas agreed to make a start with
the development of a feeder roads system in some regions of the country where
agriculture is most productive.  Negotiations with representatives of the
Government of Iran were held in Washington in Nilarch 1965.
5.     The proposed loan, together with the simultaneously proposed third main
-road   loan, would increase the Bank's lending to Iran to seven loarns
totalling US$253.2 million. These amounts include a US$5.2 million loan to
the Industrial and Mining Development Bankc of Iran guaranteed by Iran.
6.     The status of the previous five loans as of March 31, 1965 was as
follows:
Year of                                                    Amount Equivalent
Loan     No.      Borrower              Purpose           in MIillion US$
1957      160 IRN     Iran         General development            75.o
1959      227 IRN     Iran         Road construction               72.0
1959      240 IRN     IMDBI        Assist Private Industry         5.2
1960      247 IRN     Iran         Dez Multipurpose project       42.0
1964      381 IRN     Iran         Road construction              18.5
Total net of cancellations               212.7



- 2 -
Of which has been repaid (incl. full
amount of Loan No. 160 IRK)           91.8
Total outstarding                        120.9
Amount sold                 20.1
Of which has been repaid    17.5            2.6
Net amount held by the Bank               118.3
7.     Of the Bank's loans, US$21.9 million was undisbursed on March 31, 1965.
8.     Negotiation of a second loan to INDBI in the amount of approximately
$10 million is nowi in progress, and the proposed loan is expected to be
presented to the Executive Directors soinetinie in May.
9.     The International Development Association has made no credits to Iran.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE LOAN
10.    Borrower:                Iran.
Amount:                  US$8.5 million equivalent in various
currencies,
Purpose:                 Construction of 1800 km of fe3der roads
to connect Iran's highway system with
six agriculturally productive areas.
Amortization:            In 31 semi-annual instalments beginning
May 1, 1970 and ending May 1, 1985.
Interest rate:           5½ per cent per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/8 of 1 per cent per annum.
PART III - APPRAISAL OF TlE LOAN
The Project
11.    A detailed appraisal of the Project (TO.h6a) is attached (No.1).



- 3 -
12.    The present project is closely related to the two previous road loans
and the simultaneously proposed tLird highway loan, which together are
bring-ing some 5,400 km of the country's main road network to modern highway
standards. As the main highway network expands and improves, the need for
more and better agricultural feeder roads becomes increasingly urgent. The
Bank has long recognized tslis need and has now agreed vwith the Government
upon the construction of 1,800 km of feeder roads as a pilot project,
selected, on the basis of the Bank's own investigation, mostly from among
the 3,000 km which the Government expects to build during the Third Plan.
13.    The project consists of about 1800 km of feeder roads in six
agricultural areas selected on the basis of their proximity to the existing
highway system, the fertility of land, the availability of irrigation
facilities, and the possibllities of further expansion of agricultural
production. About 1500 km of these roads have already been selected and
their location fixed. The remaining 300 Iom 'll be selected during the next
year so as to provide missing links needed to balance the networks in these
areas. The project includes some 300 km of roads, contracts for which have
already been let on the basis of 'Local bidding only.  These roads would
not be financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan.
14.    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$33.7 million
equivalent. Final design of about 70 per cent of Uhese rather modest roads
ha,I already been completed and the estimates can therefore be regarded as
reliable. The foreign exchange cost is estimated to be about 27 per cent
of the total cost.  The proposed loan of US$8.5 nillion equivalent would cover
the foreign exchange cost of construction, the hiring of foreign technical
experts and the procurement of some laboratory equipment.  The local currency
costs will be met by the Plan Organization out of its development budget.
15.    The Plan Organization would be responsible for the se'ection of roads
and the provision of funds. The actual construction would be carried out under
the irmediate responsibility of Technical Bureaus in each province. The
Technical Bureaus are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Fousing and
Development. Qualified contractors would be employed to carry out the project
and local consultants would supervise their field work. The roads would be
constructed to design stanudards satisfactory to the Bank and Iran uould
undertake to maintain the feeder roads adequately.
Procurement
16.    All contracts for the Bank financed project would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding by prequalified contractors.



-I4 -
Economic Situation
17.    A report entitled "tCurrent Ecoromic Position and Prospects of Iran"
(AS-107a) was distributed on April 1, 1965 (R65-52).
18.    Iran has been passing through an economic recession since late 1961.
In this period, the rate of growth of inccme in real terms appears not to have
exceeded the rate of population increase - 2% to 2.5% per annum - and in
1962/63 per capita GNP may even have declined. There was an increase in
economic activity during 1964, but crop failures also occurred in that year and
some signs of inflation appeared. Imports rose substantially, there was a net
outflow of capital reflecting loan repayments, and foreign exchange reserves
declined. Iran drew $18 million from the IMF in September 196h. Thcse finan-
cial difficulties should be quickly overcome in view of the favorable prospects
for oil revenues, to Twhich exceptional receipts of about $200 million will be
added this year from bonus payments for new off-shore concessions. Progress of
the Third Plan (September 1962 - March 1968) has not been very satisfactory.
Primarily as a result of delays in project preparation, public investment has
been considerably below the targets.  Now, however, a number of projects in
transport, communications, power, industry and agriculture will soon be ready
for execution, though the relative priority of all of these has not yet been
clearly established.
19.    In recent years Iran has borrowed only limited amounts from foreign
sources while making substantial repayments on outstanding loans.  With the
rising trend of oil revenues expected to continue, Iran is in a position to
incur substantial additional debt on conventional terms. Oervice on existing
foreign debt is equivalent to about 11 per cent of estimated gross foreign
exchange receipts in 1965, and will decline sharply thereafter.
PLRT IV - LEGAL INSTRUIJENTS AND AUTHORITY
20.    The draft loan agreement between the Government of Iran and the Balk is
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Attention is drawn to
the followinlg provision of the draft Loan Agreement: Section 2.04 provides that
no withdrawal in respect of the 300 km of roads to be selected will be
authorized until the location of these roads has been determined and their
engineering and designs have been prepared, all to the satisfaction of the Bank.
PART V - COMPLIANCE vITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan will comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 5 -
PART VI-     MMENATION
22.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following Resolution:
RESOLVED
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Iran in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand U.S.
dollars ($8,500,000), to mature on and prior to May 1, 1985, to
bear interest at the rate of five and one-half per cent (5-1/2%)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall
be substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Feeder Roads Project) between
Iran and the Bank which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Washington, D. C.
April 16, 1965



