RESTRICTED
!9,THIJ NT}                               jj                Report No. TO-463a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
IRAN
April 14, 1965
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U. S. dollar = Rls. 75
Rls. 1 million = U.S. $13, 330



IRAN: FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
Summary                                               i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                           1
II.  BACKGROUND                                             1
III.  THE PROJECT                                            2
A. Description of the Project                          2
B. Execution of the Project                            3
C.  The Cost Estimates                                 6
C.  Maintenance                                        7
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                  7
A.  General                                            7
B.  Description of the Project Areas                   8
C.  Economic Benefits of the Project                  10
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOI1MMENDATIONS                     13
ANNEX: Detailed Description of the Project Areas
TABLES: 1.  Details of Project Roads
2. Design Standards
3. Cost Estimates
4. Detailed Breakdown of Engineering Costs
5. Comparison of Present and Future Production
in Volume and Value
MAPS 1 - 7



IRAN: FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
Summary
i.        The Iranian Government has requested financial assistance from the
Bank for a feeder-road project in six of the country's most important agri-
cultural areas.
ii.       The project is for construction of about 1,800 km of feeder-roads at
a cost of about US$33.7 million equivalent. Of the 1,800 km included in the
project, 325 km are already under construction and will not be financed out of
the loan funds. The cost estimates are based on final design of about 70 per-
cent of the roads and can therefore be regarded as reliable. The foreign
exchange cost is estimated to be about 27 percent of the total cost of those
construction wJorks to be covered under the loan. The proposed loan will be
US$8.5 million equivalent, covering the foreign exchange cost of construction,
of the hiring of technical experts and of the procurement of laboratory equip-
ment.
iii.      The project was prepared by four local consultants employed by the
Plan Organization (P.O.) to survey and design the project roads. This report
is also based on information supplied by the various central and local govern-
ment agencies concerned with the project. During the appraisal an expert from
F.A.O. cooperated with the Bank mission.
iv.       Execution of the project is the responsibility of the P.O. but the
field works will be carried out under the immediate responsibility of Technical
Bureaus organized under the Ministry of Housing and Development in each
province (Ostan), staffed and financed by the P.O. The project should be
regarded as a pilot project from which valuable experience can be gained for
execution of future feeder-road projects.
v.        The construction works will be carried out by contractors selected on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Local consultants will super-
vise the contractors' field works. Foreign experts will be employed to assist
the Government to oversee the consultants' activities. Some of the local con-
tractors and consultants who are expected to carry out the work have limited
experience in road construction, and the system of decentralized supervision
through the local Technical Bureaus is untested. For these reasons, the project
has been confined to a more limited area than that proposed originally.
vi.       That part of the project cost not financed by the Bank will be pro-
vided by the P.O. out of its development budget.
vii.      The maintenance of the feeder-roads will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Roads. Adequate maintenance funds will be provided annually by the
P.O.
viii.     Inadequate statistical data make it impossible to estimate quantita-
tively the benefits to be derived from the proposed investment. The project
areas were therefore selected mainly on the basis of the Bank staff's qualita-
tive judgment. However, in order to indicate the agricultural importance of the
project areas, data on cultivated acreages and gross value of production for



- ii -
the present and estimated for the period 10 years after the completion of the
project are presented, together with a very rough estimate of the possible
range of net benefits.
ix.       The project is a suitable basis for a loan of US$8.5 million equiva-
lent to the Governrment of Iran. An appropriate term would be 20 years includ-
ing a 5-year period of grace.



FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
IRAN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Iranian Government has asked the Bank for financial assistance
to construct 1,800 km of feeder-roads in six agricultural regions. The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$33.7 million equivalent, of which the
Bank has been requested to finance US$8.5 million equivalent, or 25.2 percent.
2.        This appraisal report is based on surveys prepared by the Government's
consultants and supplementary information furnished by the Plan Organization
(P.O.), the Ministry of Agriculture and the provincial governments. The Bank
appraisal mission, including members of the Bank's transportation and agri-
cultural divisions and an expert on agricultural economics from the F.A.O.,
visited Iran in August/September 1964.
II. BACKGROUND
3.        Iran's territory of more than 630,000 square miles is larger than
the combined total area of Italy, Spain, France, and Great Britain. About
90 percent of the land area consists of deserts and high mountains with
inhabited areas scattered throughout the country. The vast size of the country
and the scattered population malce transportation costly and, consequently,
many important areas of the country are not adequately served.
4.        About 70 percent of the total population of 21 million reside in
rural areas, engaging in production of staple crops, mainly wheat, and live-
stock raising. The agricultural yields are generally low due to antiquated
farming methods, little application of fertilizer and scarcity of water. A
systematic development of water resources for irrigation has begun only
recently. The most important cause for economic backwardness, however, is
generally recognized to be the extreme difficulty of moving people and goods.
5.        During the past five years the Bank has been assisting in carrying
out road construction and improvements in Iran. The Bank's first road loan,
No. 227-IRN of US$72 million signed in 1959, financed construction and improve-
ment of about 2,500 km of main highways, and the project is now almost com-
pleted. About 2,400 km of roads were constructed or improved during the same
period by the Government without Bank financing. The country's main highway
network, therefore, is about 4,900 km, which forms the vital arterial trans-
port link serving the most important and productive regions in the country.
6.        A second road loan, No. 381-IRN, of US$18.5 million was made in June
1964 to help finance construction and improvement of about 1,200 km of main
highways and a new project is under preparation for a third road loan of US$32
million for main roads which would help finance improvement of an additional
1,700 km.
7.        As the main highway network expands and improves, the need for con-
struction of agricultural feeder-roads has become increasingly evident. Such
a need, however, was already recognized when the first road loan was made in
1959, and funds for the planning and engineering of a feeder-road program



-2-
were included in the loan.
8.        The Bank recommended at that time that consulting engineers be
engaged to undertake a reconnaissance followed by a preliminary survey of a
number of feeder-roads in one of the country's three major agricultural areas,
and that construction of feeder-roads be started on a modest scale to gain
experience,
9.        The Bank's recommendation was not followed by the Government, which
undertook a survey of all 13 Ostans of the country by engaging local consulting
firms with limited experience in road construction. The Government stated
that the reason for the wider survey was to obtain an indication of the over-
all need for feeder-roads in the country. The Bank did not approve the
employment of most of the local consultants and no disbursement was made out
of the loan fund for feeder-road studies. The funds allotted to the feeder-
road program were later transferred to the construction cost of the First
Road Project.
10.       The Government's survey of feeder-roads was recently completed* the
total program prepared on the basis of the survey includes over 7,000 km of
roads divided about equally among the 13 Ostans. The current Third Five-
year Plan which began in September 1962, envisages the construction of 3,000
km out of the total, The preliminary survey on these roads has been com-
pleted and the final design has started on most of them.
11.       The mission considered that the Government's criteria for selection
of roads was neither consistent nor based on sound economic principles. The
consultant's investigations were not adequate and proper liaison was not main-
tained with the Ministry of Agriculture during the survey.
12.       On the basis of its own investigation of the economic potentials of
different areas, the mission indicated to the Government that only certain
selected roads in important agricultural areas could be considered appropriate
for Bank financing. The Government agreed to such a project composed of a
smaller number of roads, concentrated in the country's six major agricultural
areas,
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description of the Project
13.       The project is the construction of approximately 1,800 km of feeder-
roads in six agricultural areas. The six areas have been selected on the
basis of their proximity to the existing highway system, the fertility of
land, the availability of irrigation facilities, and the possibilities for
further expansion of agricultural production. Following these criteria,
roads proposed for arid and mountainous regions were excluded from considera-
tion. A summary of the project is given in the following table:



Feeder-Road Project in Six Selected Areas
Name of Area and Location                                     Road Length
A. Gorgan, East Mazandaran                                       126
B. Amol, East Mazandaran                                         246
C. Ramsar, Guilan and West Mazandaran                             52
D.  Sefid Rud, Guilan and West Mazandaran                        279
E.  Kermanshah-Hamadan                                           444
F.  Ghazvin, Tehran                                              356
Sub-total           1,503
Additional roads for missing links
(to be specified later)                                      297
Total               1,800
14.       The 1,503 km of feeder-roads selected for the project do not comprise
a complete feeder system in each of the six selected areas. More roads will
have to be built in each area to complete the missing links, but on the basis
of the presently available surveys, it is not possible to determine the
approximate location and alignment of these additional roads. For this reason,
about 300 km of additional roads are included in the project. These roads
would have to be identified and designed by the local consultants during the
first year of project execution.
15.       Details of individual roads included in the project are shown in
Table 1. Maps of each region are attached to indicate the location of the
roads.
16.       In Iran, the government uses three different design specifications
for feeder-roads. Selection of design standards for any particular road is
determined by the expected daily traffic volume. The design standards are
shown in Table 2. The project roads will be built to either Class I (8 m.
embankment) or Class II (6.5 m. embankment) standards. Both design classifi-
cations prescribe a thoroughly compacted sub-grade of 10 to 20 cm layer of
selected gravel. No base or sub-base is to be applied. The standards applied
are acceptable to the Bank. The standards call for a mixed operation in the
execution of the work, using both hand labor and equipment.
17.       Standard designs and patterns for culverts, bridges and other struc-
tures acceptable to the Bank have been prepared by the consultants and approved
by the P.O.
B. Execution of the Project
18.       Project execution is the responsibility of the P.O.   There is in each
Ostan under the Mlinistry of Housing and Development a Technical Bureau, estab-
lished and financed by the P.O., which will be in charge of the construction of
the project roads, but P.O. retains the final authority on technical and finan-
cial matters related to the construction of feeder-roads. The functions of the
Technical Bureaus include not only the feeder-road construction but also all



other technical matters falling within the jurisdiction of the Governor in
each Ostan.
19.       The Technical Bureau in each Ostan pays contractors and consultants
from a revolving credit supplied and controlled by the P.O. through the
Ministry of Housing and Development. Any changes in the road program and
increases in cost above 10 percent of original estimates need the P.O.'s
approval. The Technical Bureau's function for feeder-roads under the Ministry
of Housing and Development is similar to that of the Ministry of Roads, which
is the executing agent of the P.O. for main roads.
20.       The fact that feeder-roads are only part of the Technical Bureau's
operation in each Ostan, and that the Bureaus do not have a sufficient number
of experienced local engineers, might create problems for the execution of the
project. The Bank will therefore follow the execution of the project closely.
It has insisted that the P.O. maintain an exclusive and effective control on
the Technical Bureaus for feeder-road matters and that a clear understanding
be reached with the Ministry of Housing and Development on the exercise of this
control by the P.O. This was discussed and agreed upon during loan negotia-
tions.
21.       Project execution would be supervised by local consultants as follows:
Consultants                         Area
a)  Soc. Hamcar                         Gorgan and Amol Areas
b)  Soc. Taleghani, Daftary             Ramsar and Sefid Rud Areas
c)  Soc. Atras                          Kermanshah-Hamadan Area
d)  Engineering Consortium              Ghazvin Area
Of the 13 consultants employed on feeder-roads, the above 4 are regarded as the
most experienced. The reason for employing local consultants has been the
P.O.'s desire to give such firms an opportunity to gain further experience in
road survey and design, starting with feeder-roads, which are low standard
roads as compared with the main roads.
22.       The background and experience of the consulting firms have been
examined. They have mainly local staff. Since they have been in operation
for only three to four years, it is difficult to judge them on past performance.
The road location and alignment study undertaken by the consultants has in
general been satisfactorily executed, and their design work is up to standard.
However, tle consultants generally lack experience in soil investigation and
soil testing. For parts of the Gorgan areas, a soil study is important because
of the poor condition of the sub-soil. In addition to the lack of special
technical skills, there is a general shortage of trained manpower in Iran. The
shortage of qualified engineers and technicians is accentuated by the recent
boom in the construction industry, including the main road construction projects.
For these reasons, the P.O. will make appropriate arrangements to engage the
needed number of foreign experts on the consultant's staff to assist in their
activities.
23.       Because of inadequate staffing of the Technical Bureaus in the Ostans



- 5 -
and the insufficient experience of the local consultants, it is important that
the P.O. make special efforts to assist and oversee the consultants' activities.
In order to carry out this task, the P.O. needs to strengthen its own technical
staff by hiring a number of experienced foreign engineers to supervise the
local consultants and experts on soil investigation and to assist the consul-
tants in their soil testing. This matter has been discussed and agreed upon
during negotiations.
24.       The consultants' contracts for final survey and design are based on
a fixed price per km of roads of different types and terrain, which is a normal
procedure. However, the prices are extremely low, and if not amended would
adversely influence the quality of the survey work.
25.       Field supervision has been based on a fixed price per km constructed,
without any indication as to the length of each road section or of the con-
struction period. This may result in the consultants not receiving full com-
pensation for actual costs, which may lead to disputes and claims. These
matters have been discussed during loan negotiations. Contracts will be
amended as necessary to provide adequate conditions of payment to the consul-
tants. A more precise definition of the consultants' task as to survey and
design will also be prepared, especially with respect to soil investigation.
26.       In contracting the construction of feeder-roads, the roads should be
grouped so that each contract includes, whenever possible, about 100 km. The
value of such contracts would amount to around Rls. 75 million (US$1 million)
and would be more attractive to the contractors, and also save supervision
costs. This has been agreed with the Government.
27.       The Government had proposed that the local contractors to be invited
be selected from a list of Class II contractors registered wiith the P.O. The
contract will normally be awarded to the lowest bidder.   Class II contractors
are defined as those able to undertake works of a maximum of Rls. 150 million
value (US$2 million). The selection of contractors must first be approved by
the consultants, and the awarding of each contract will also be approved by the
P.O. before signing, since there is some doubt as to the experience in road
work of some contractors. The P.O.'s reason for proposing to restrict con-
tracts to Class II contractors was to reserve Class I contractors for main
highway projects, which is understandable. It has been agreed during negotia-
tions that both categories of contractors will be invited, so that the exper-
ience and skills of Class I contractors may set the example to the less
experienced Class II contractors.
28.       The Bank's requirement of international competitive bidding will be
applied. However, in view of the size of the contracts and the scattered
nature of the works, it is unlikely that foreign contractors will participate
to an appreciable extent. Because 325 km of feeder-roads included in the
project have already been awarded to local contractors without applying inter-
national competitive bidding, it was agreed that the full cost of those roads
would be financed entirely by the Government, but that the roads as such would
remain part of the project.
29.       It is estimated that the execution of the project will require about



- 6 -
four years depending on the performance of the contractors, consultants and the
Technical Bureaus of each of the Ostans. In view of the uncertainties in this
regard, and the likelihood that problems will arise in the initial phases of
the decentralized system of execution, the proposed feeder-road program should
be considered as a pilot project, from which experience can be gained in design
and execution of future feeder-roads in Iran.
C. The Cost Estimates
30.       The cost of the project, estimated at Rls. 2,530 million, or US$33.7
million, can be summarized as follows:
Cost Estimate                                       In million Rials
1.  Construction of 1,800 km of feeder-roads                       1,778
2.  Supervision of work under (1) and procurement
of laboratory equipment                                       330
3. Contingencies, 20%J                                               422
Total Rls. 2,530 million
(US$33.7 million)
For more details on the cost estimate, see Tables 1, 3 and 4. The estimate of
construction cost is based on quantities and unit prices from final design of
about 70 percent of the roads and should be regarded as quite reliable. How-
ever, since this is the first feeder-road project of this kind in Iran, a
contingency allowance of 20 percent has been provided.   The estimate also
includes the cost of the consultants' services for design and supervision and
the cost for foreign experts to be added to the present staff of the P.O. and
its consultants. A small amount is also included for the procurement of labora-
tory equipment. As the consultants' contracts did not provide adequate
remuneration (see paragraphs 24 and 25), the cost estimate for the consultants'
services has been raised by 25 percent (Table 4).
31.       According to the consultants' estimate, the foreign exchange cost of
construction varies between 24 and 29 percent, with an average of 27 percent,
on the assumption that the use of mechanical equipment would be held to the
minimum. Because Iran produces its own oil and cement, and assuming that local
contractors will execute the work, the foreign exchange component of construc-
tion cost would consist of depreciation of equipment, the cost of spare parts
and tires and the steel for bridges and culverts. On this basis the total
foreign exchange cost of that part of the project financed by the present loan
is estimated at US$8.5 million; this figure includes US$1.6 million for the
cost of foreign experts and the procurement from abroad of laboratory equipment
and an allowance of 20 percent for contingencies (see Table 4).
32.       The balance of the cost will be financed by the P.O. out of its
development funds as provided for in the Third Plan Law and made up of alloca-
tions by the Government of an increasing percentage of annual oil revenues
during the Third Plan Period. The financial resources appear to be ample to
provide the required funds. It is assumed that expenditures related to the
project incurred after the end of the Third Plan Period (September 1967) will



- 7 -
be carried over to the Fourth Plan Period, in the same manner as the project
included in the first main road project was carried over from the Second to the
Third Plan Period.
D. Maintenance
33.       The Ministry of Roads is in charge of the maintenance of the main
roads in Iran which today are quite well maintained. The P.O. plans to hand
over the feeder-roads when constructed to the Ministry of Roads for mainten-
ance. Necessary funds would be allocated annually by the P.O. for maintenance.
These questions have been discussed during negotiations and satisfactory
assurances obtained.
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. General
34.       Iranian agriculture is presently going through a period of transfor-
mation from the traditional subsistence farming to modern agriculture. New
production factors are being introduced - mechanization, fertilizers, and
pesticides being the most important. The Government's development efforts
were handicapped for several years by the feudal land tenure system, but this
obstacle is being gradually removed by the agrarian reforms under execution.
35.       Along with the carrying out of agrarian reforms, the rural feeder-
road system must be expanded if there is to be satisfactory development of
the country's farm economy. Current development of agriculture is generally
confined to areas wqith easy access to markets. Indeed, the agrarian reform
program itself cannot be wholly successful unless the isolated rural areas
are opened up by adequate road facilities.
36.       In areas lacking roads practically all farm-to-market transportation
is provided by the farmers themselves using donkeys, pack horses, or even
shoulder packs. Such journeys often occupy several days and cover considerable
distances. The cost of this type of transportation in time and energy is
excessive in relation to the value of the small loads of produce carried, even
where the farmers are able to sell at rates approaching competitive market
values.
37.       As a rule peasant farmers prefer to avoid their time-consuming
journeys to market by selling the produce at the earliest opportunity. In
remote areas such sales are usually made to itinerant traders and sometimes
to storekeepers at the nearest roadside village who exploit the situation to
their advantage. Thus wheat prices to farmers in distant trading points are
stated to be as low as Rls. 3.5 kg compared to wholesale prices of Rls. 7.5 in
cities. This disadvantageous position of small farmers in remote areas pro-
ducing other crops is even worse.
38.       Difficult transportation conditions preclude production of perishable
or bulky, but high value, crops such as sugar beets, vegetables, tobacco,
fruits or cotton. The Government's agricultural extension and rural credit
services are rarely available in areas without adequate feeder-roads.



- 8-
B. Description of the Project Areas
39.       The detailed economic description of the project areas is given in
the Annex. In the followTing, a summary description of each area and the likely
trend of development during the first ten years after completion of feeder-road
construction are presented.
i. Gorgan Area
40.       The area is located in the East Mazandaran province about 50 Ian from
the Caspian Sea at the foothills of the Elbruz mountains. The terrain, soil
and precipitation are well suited for agriculture. A large part of the culti-
vated area is devoted to production of wheat and cotton.
41.       Difficult transportation and inadequate irrigation are the factors
holding dowJn development of the area.  However, compared with the situation
prevailing before World lWlar II, the progress that has been achieved is remark-
able.  IJhile the area was devoted to grazing of sheep and goats two decades ago,
it is now being converted into large mechanized commercial farms of sizes
ranging between 20 and 100 hectares. The development of the area up to now has
been mainly due to its favorable soil and climate and the main road construction
in the south.
42.       After the completion of the feeder-road projects, the area's cotton
production would be considerably expanded, and the present acreage of 26,000 ha.
is likely to be more than double. Production of wheat and other crops would
also expand.
ii. Amol Area
43.       This area is one of the largest agricultural areas on the Caspian
littoral. It is bordered by the coastline to the north and by the Elbruz
mountains to the south. There are several large towns, each with a population
of over 20,000.
44.       Rice is the main crop and most of the project roads pass through
paddy fields. About one-half of the cultivated land is irrigated. Cotton and
wheat are also grown.
45.       After completion of the project there would be some increase in the
cultivated area but the main benefits would come from increased yields per
hectare of all crops resulting from more intensive cultivation of land, appli-
cation of more fertilizers and insecticides, etc.
iii. Ramsar Area
46.       The area is part of the tea growing center of Iran.   The hilly terrain
on the foothills of the Elbruz mountains is especially suited for tea growing.
Some 1,600 ha. are at present under tea cultivation. There are 13 tea factories
in this area. Rice cultivation is also important.
47.       The main purpose of the feeder-road construction is to encourage the



- 9 -
further growth of tea production in various localities by connecting them with
the Caspian littoral highway. It is estimated that the tea acreage would be
nearly doubled and production more than doubled.
iv. Sefid-Rud Delta Area
48.       This area is located at the southwest corner of the Caspian Sea.   It
is the largest contigous block of intensively cultivated land in Iran.
49.       A multiple purpose water project, which includes irrigation, power
and flood control, was started by the Government in 1956, and the main dam
with hydro-electric installations was completed in 1962. The remaining works,
including a diversion dam and the primary and secondary canals, are scheduled
to be completed in 1968.
50.       The irrigation and flood control parts of the water project cost
about US$119 million. This project does not include provision for feeder-road
construction and the proposed feeder-roads project would supplement the overall
agricultural development program of the area.
51.       The area is presently devoted to rice and other staple crops.   Rice
will continue to be the main product, and after completion of the water and
feeder-road projects, the area under rice cultivation should nearly double and
production increase by about 50 percent. This would result in an almost
threefold increase in rice production.
v. Kermanshah-Ilamadan Area
52.       This area, located to the west of the central part of Iran, is noted
for wide and generally fertile valleys, but inadequate rainfall makes crop
production in the summertime dependent on irrigation. Agriculture consists
primarily of livestock grazing and the growing of winter wheat and barley.
53.       During recent years, extensions and improvements of the main road
system have induced some diversification of farming. But inadequate feeder-
roads and shortage of water have been holding down the progress of agriculture.
A recent discovery of easily tapped ground water in some of the large valleys
is expected to improve the water supply.
54.       When the feeder-roads are provided, wheat production in the area is
expected to nearly double. Sugar beet production would be started to supply
the existing sugar factory in the region, which at present gets its supply of
sugar beet mainly from outside the region. Tobacco production would also be
initiated. Overall agricultural production is estimated to double in about
ten years after completion of the project.
vi. Ghazvin Area
55.       The area experienced a severe earthquake in 1962, which destroyed
about one-third of the villages within the project area. For rehabilitation
and further development of the area, the Government, employing foreign con-
sultants, has prepared a $40 million project which includes the establishment



- 10 -
of three rural centers equipped with marketing, administrative and agricultural
processing facilities; diversification and mechanization of crop production;
and installation of up to 400 tubewells for irrigation. The $h0 million esti-
mate, however, does not include the cost of feeder-road construction. The
proposed project will therefore supplement the Government's rehabilitation and
development program for the area.
56.       The area is located about 120 km west-northwiest of Tehran.  The
present main products are wheat, barley and pulses, which cover 85 percent of
the cultivated land. Some sugar beets, cotton and vegetables are also produced.
57.       As the Government's rehabilitation and development program progresses
and the feeder-roads are completed, the present concentration on a few staple
crops would be abandoned and plantings of sugar beet, cotton and other indus-
trial crops would be expanded. Orchards and vegetable fields managed indivi-
dually or through cooperatives are expected to occupy about one-third of the
irrigated land.
C. Economic Benefits of the Project
58.       The areas selected for the project are those where the Government's
extension service is concentrated.  With the construction of feeder-roads this
service would be more efficient and expanded to more remote areas as well. The
Government's agricultural activity, however, is still in its first stages of
development. Although it is desirable that, in addition to the extension
services, the Government assist in the introduction of fertilizers, drilling
of wells for irrigation and extension of farm credit facilities, it appears
unlikely, in view of the limited governmental resources, that assistance to
farmers will increase substantially in the near future apart from a more
efficient operation of the existing programs resulting from improved transporta-
tion. The proposed investment is justified in spite of the fact that these
supplementary governmental measures appear unlikely to materialize, except
where specific programs now exist, as in the Ghazvin area.
59.       The justification of the project is therefore based on the effects of
the new roads alone, which include higher prices at the farm, more efficient
use of the existing extension services, lower priced farm materials such as
fertilizers and insecticides and saving of the farmers' time. It is expected
that the time savings resulting from improved transportation would enable
farmers to devote more time and energy to farm activities, while improved
transportation facilities and lower transport costs will enable farmers to sell
their products for higher prices at more distant markets. These factors will
lead both to expanded areas of cultivation and to more intensive use of the
existing farm areas. The latter would involve a shift from traditional staple
crops to more profitable cash crops and further investment in irrigation
facilities. Lower transportation costs should also reduce the prices of
fertilizers and insecticides to farmers, and thus stimulate their use. All of
these developments would have the effect of substantially increasing farm
revenues.
60.       As basic statistics are lacking, no precise quantification of benefits
is possible. The choice of project areas has, therefore, been based mainly



- 11 -
on a qualitative judgment taking into consideration the fertility of land, its
topography, population density, and for the Sefid-Rud and Ghazvin areas, the
other complementary investments being made or under consideration by the
Government.
61.       In order to indicate the agricultural potential of the selected pro-
ject areas, the presently cultivated hectarage and gross value of agricultural
production are compared with those estimated by the mission for the period ten
years after the completion of the project. (For details, see Table 5).
Cultivated Area
10 years
after the
Completion
Area                       Present     of Pro,ject   Increase
-           ( - - - - ' 000 ha.) - - … - - -
Gorgan                        84           115           31
Amol                         150           170           20
Ramsar                        12.6          20            7.4
Sefid-Rud Delta              181           220           39
Kermanshah-Hamadan           145           205           60
Ghazvin                       98           115           17
Gross Value of Annual Production
10 years                           Increase
after the                Deduct    Induced
Completion               Normal    by the
Area       Present         of Project   Increase   Increase   Project
- - - - - - - - (Million Rials)- - - - - -
Gorgan       1,015            1,890        875        275       600
Amol         2,555            3,325        770        510       260
Ramsar         305              485        180         60       120
Sefid-Rud
Delta       3,650            7,130      3,480         -         -
Kermanshah-
Hamadan       465              965        500        125       375
62.       The incremental gross value of annual agricultural production to be
induced by the project in all the areas where such estimates are possible is
larger than the total cost of construction of feeder-roads in each area. In
the estimates, allowance is made for the normal increase in production which
would be expected to take place without the project, but not for the additional
investments that would have to be made by farmers in order to bring about the
increased production. The latter investments cannot be quantified at this
stage.
63.       As no basic data on the cost of farm production are available in Iran,
it is not possible to estimate the net value of agricultural output. The Dez



- 12 -
multipurpose project in Iran which is being financed by the Bank could provide
some useful data, but the project has only recently started, and it will be at
least some years before such data would become available. Farm production
data which are available for some Bank projects in other countries of similar
natural and social conditions show a relationship between net and gross values
of production ranging between 46-56:100. Although it is difficult to say to
what extent this relationship is applicable to the proposed project, assuming
on the basis of the above data that the ratio of net to gross is somewhere
between 40 to 60 percent, the annual rates of return to the investment during
its 15-year economic life would be as follows:
Assumed Ratios of Net Incremental
Value of Production to Gross Value           60%         40%
Gorgan                                       35          29
Amol                                         12           8
Ramsar                                       18          13
Kermanshah-Hamadan                           15          10
All four areas combined                      19          14
Needless to say, since these estimated rates of return are not based on farm
cost data derived from Iran, they should be regarded as only rough indications
of the economic soundness of the proposed project. Taken on this basis, they
would appear to indicate that substantial economic returns can generally be
expected from the proposed roads.
64.       In both the Sefid-Rud and Ghazvin areas, other development projects
are being carried out by the Government (see Annex). The cost of the feeder-
road project, therefore, is relatively small compared with the total develop-
mental expenditure of the Government. For this reason, separate estimates of
the incremental production resulting from the project investment were not
attempted.
65.       In the estimates, increased livestock production was not taken into
account although feeder-roads in these areas will enable farmers to sell cattle
for slaughter at a younger average age, thus both increasing the quantity and
improving the quality of meat supply.
66.       Farmers' transportation benefits will be in time savings and in
easier means of transport. No allowance has been made for this except in the
Kermanshah-Hamadan area where some detailed information was available on ex-
farm prices in remote areas.
67.       Although no substantial increase in the Government's assistance
activities is to be expected (see paragraph 58), in view of the Government's
intention to formulate an agricultural development program under the Third
Five-Year Plan, it has been advised that in preparing such a program priority
should be given to those feeder-road project areas. Assurance to do so has
been obtained from the Government during negotiations. Need for improved coor-
dination between the Ministry of Roads and the Ministry of Agriculture has also
been recognized.



- 13 -
V. CONCLUSIONIS AID RECONNENDATIONS
68.       The project is technically sound and cost estimates appear adequate
to cover the total construction work envisaged by the Government.
69.       The execution of the project may encounter problems arising from
organizational shortcomings and inexperience. The efficiency of the adminis-
trative organization has yet to be tested and the local consultants and con-
tractors have generally insufficient experience in the type of project proposed.
Therefore, in addition to financing foreign experts on the P.O.'s staff to
oversee the work of the local consultants, the Bank must pay close attention,
through project supervision, to the possible need for strengthening the organi-
zation and securing adequate coordination among various agencies of the Govern-
ment concerned with the project execution.
70.       The six areas selected for feeder-road construction are among the
better agricultural areas in Iran. Each has a high development potential
which will not be realized unless feeder-road construction takes place.
71.       In four areas the investment is justified by the economic development
to be induced by the feeder-road construction. In the Sefid-Rud Delta and the
Ghazvin area, the investments in feeder-roads are justified as essential parts
of the Government's overall development programs proceeding in these areas.
72.       The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a loan of US$8.5
million equivalent. An appropriate term would be 20 years including a 5-year
period of grace.
April 14, 1965



ANNEX
IRAN: FEBDD?-ROKD PROJECT
Detailed Description of the Project Areas
A. Gorgan Area (Map 2)
1.        The Gorgan feeder-road system is tied to the highwviay Tehran-iMeshed.
It is in East N-azandaran about 50 km, from the Caspian Sea at the foothills
of the high 7 bruz mountains.   The land is flat or gently undulating.  The
climate is continental with hot summers and occasional frost in wvinter. Average
annual rainfall is around 1,000 mm, mostly concentrated in the w-iinter months.
There are good possibilities for obtaining water by drilling wells. In most
tubewells, the water emerres under pressure. A small river follows the northern
border of the project area.  The soils are deep loam, well suited for intensive
irrigated cultivation of various crops including cotton.
20        Agriculture has been held back by the area's inaccessibility and by
the lack of capital for irrigation facilities.   The recent construction and
improvements of the main road traversing the southern part of the Gorgan area
have caused an inflow of capital and management skills from the Tehran area.
The area was traditionally a grazing land for sheep and goats until Wdorld WIar II,
but it is now being developed into fairly large mechanized commercial farms of
from 20 to 100 ha. each. The typical farm is run by a competent manager under a
consortiurn of shareholders. The main crops are cotton and w,yheat. The area
influenced by the new feeder-road system is approximately 140,000 ha,, of which
about 60 percent is under crop off and on and about 10 percent of the cultivated
area is irrigated.
B. Amol Area (Map 3)
3.        The area is bordered by 'de coastline to the north and by the Elbruz
mountains to the south; it is traversed by the railway from Tehran to Gorgan and
by the littoral highwray.  A new highwray Tehran-Amol has been recently completed
and truck transportation about 250 km. from the area to the Tehran market takes
only about four hours.  Several larger towns - Amol (pop. 22,000), Babol (36,ooo),
Shahi (23,000), and Sari (26,000) - are located in the area.
4.        The area comprises approximately 380,000 ha.,   of which about 270,000
ha. are under cultivation or grazing.   The land is generally flat and several
smaller or larger streams traverse it from! the mountains to the sea.  Rice is
the main crop and most of the project roads pass through padrly fields. About
half of the cultivated land is irrigated.   The land is impassable for vehicles
in the twJinter because of the rains and most of the summer because of irrigation.
C. Ramsar Area (Map 4)
5,        The annual Iranian consumption of all varieties of tea is estimated at
23-24,000 tons, of which local production provides about 13,500 tons. Imported
tea from Ceylon and India totals some 6,000 tons annually, wihile 3,000 to 4,000
tons are smuggled into Iran from bordering countries. The Government's tea
authority operates or rents 54 tea factories which purchase about 70 percent of



ANNEX
IRATNh  FFE,)t-ROAD PROJECT               Page 2
the annual harvest.  The balance is puirchased and processed by 55 privately-
owned factories sometimes at prices less favorable to growers than the fixed
rates offered at the government factories.
6.        In the Ramsar-Valiabad area, four feeder-roads heve been selected to
serve approximately 25,000 ha. Seven Government-sponsored and six privately-
owned factories are now in operation in this area. The current production of
the seven government factories is over 700 tons of dry tea annually and it is
assumed that the smqaller private factories produce an additional 300 tons per
year.  Citrus can also be growTn, and mixed tea and citrus gardens are becoming
increasingly common. The e.pansion of both crops has been handicapped by the
absence of feeder-roads. Most tea growers in the area use donkeys and horses to
transoort farm produce, inclulling their deliveries of fresh tea leaves to the
factories. In areas well served br roads, some tea factories have recently
instituted a daily roadside collection service for tea leaves without cost to
the growers.
7o        The roads are linked to the littoral highway and constitute a fairly
complete system of feeder-roads.   The roads included in the project do not
extend beyond actual or potential tea land. This limits the project roads to
the littoral and the foothills of the mountains. Those portions of the originally
proposed roads located in the mountainous areas are excluded from the project.
8.        The influenced area of approximately 25,000 ha. includes some 5,000 ha.
of the foothills of the Flbruz mountains.   This hilly land is especially suited
for tea growing.   Some 1,600 ha. are at present under tea.
D. Sefid-Rud Delta (Map 5)
9.        The Sefid-Rud Delta is located at the southwiest corner of the Caspian
Sea. It is the largest contiguous block of intensively cultivated land in Iran,
The area has an ancient irrigation system with primitive handmade stone and
brush intakes and with numerous individually-owned canal systems -,which are being
reconstructed and modernized.   The main works of the multipurpose project, which
includes irrigation, powier and flood control, were started in 1956.  The main dam
with its hydroelectric installations wuas completed in 1962.  The remaining main
works, including a diversion dam and primarVy and secondary canals, are scheduled
to be completed at the end of the third plan period in 1968.
10.       The main works for irrigation and flood control are estimated to cost
Rls. 8,913 million (USll9 million).   The cost of on-farm developments and the
feeder-road system are not included in these estimates.
llo       The cost of this fairly complete feeder-road system is only a small
fraction of the total cost of the multipurpose project.   The total cost (ex-
cluding allocations to power) of the Sefid-Rud irrigation project is estimated
at:
Main works                          Rls. 8,913 million
Feeder-roads & contingencies               600
On-farim developments                    6,ooo
Total Rls.15,513 million



IRAN: FEBDEX-ROAD PROJECT                Page 3
12o       The gross area wlithin the boundaries of the project is 268,000 ha.
which is the area considered for the feeder-road system. At present, 110,000 ha.
(net) are irrigated through the old canal systems. The irrigation project would
increase the irrigated area to 210,000 ha. (185,000 ha. net).
13.       The benefits from the project are estimated only in terms of the
increase in gross value of production, About two-thirds of the cultivated
land is in paddy fields and one-third under various crops, such as wheat,
vegetables, melons, kenaf, some tea and alfalfa0
14.       According to the estinates of the Sefid-Rud Water and Power Authority,
the increase in Eross value of production would be Rls. 3.5 billion (see Table 5)
in the tenth year after the completion of the multipurpose project compared with
the cost of Rls. 15.5 billion. Regulated flow of irrigation water from the
reservoir (since 1962) has already had a considerable effect on rice production.
The Twater shortages during the grow,ing season have been eliminated and yields per
hectare have increased from 2.7 tons to over three tons, The projected yield of
four tons of paddy per hectare may be on the high side,
E. Kermanshah-Hamadan Area (Map 6)
15.       The Kermanshah and Hamadan region is noted for wide and generally
fertile valleys, but inadequate rainfall in the late spring and summer months
makes crop production heavily dependent on local surface water irrigation
systems wThich tend to dry out.
16.       Agriculture in this region is primarily grazing and the production of
winter wheat and barley. Up to 80 percent of these crops is produced in
favorable seasons by dry farming. In areas served by irrigation and accessible
to all-weather roads, legumes, tobacco, cotton, sugar beets, and vegetables are
also grown0  During recent years, extensions and improvements to the main road
system have induced diversification of farming in the more accessible areas.
17.       Tho sugar beet factories have operated at well below capacity.   Inade-
quate wlater for summer irrigation and lack of all-weather feeder-roads are the
principal handicaps of agriculture. Recent discoveries of easily tapped ground-
wiater in some of the large valleys have r,aade farmers optimistic over prospects
for sugar beet production and other forms of intensive farming. An additional
sugar beet factory is planned for construction at Hekmetan near Hamadan. In the
immediate vicinity of Assadabad village on the Kermanshah-Hamadan Highway about
50 shallow Iwells with motor pumps have been drilled in the past few months.
18.       The proposals for feeder-road construction have attracted much interest
locally. Representatives of the sugar factories have been placing new contracts
for production during the coming season and even in areas where the feeder-roads
are merely at the planning stage new crops are being introduced in expectation of
improved transportation.
19.       Of the 680 km. of feeder-roads approved for design and construction by
the P.O., 12 roads totaling )144 km. have been included in the project.



ANNEX
IRAN:  FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT           Page 4
20.       Of the estimated 495,000 ha. of agricultural land in the various
localities expected to be influenced by the feeder-roads some 145,000 ha. are
now under cultivation. (See Table 5). An additional 150,000 ha. are tempo-
rarily in fallow, while an additional 200,000 ha. now used only for grazing
are considered potentially cultivable, mainly by dry farming. At present,
these cultivated lands produce an estimated 57,000 tons of wheat annually, of
which some 10,000 tons are grown on irrigated lands. The estimated 20,000 tons
of barley used for stock food are grown by dry farming. The comparatively small
areas irrigated by streams and springs produce mainly wheat, legumes, alfalfa
hay and small quantities of sugar beets, cotton and vegetables.
F. Ghazvin Area (Map 7)
21.       About one-third of the villages within this project area were damaged
by an earthquake in 1962. Among other official rehabilitation efforts, the
Government engaged a foreign consulting firm to prepare a comprehensive
community and agricultural development project for the whole area, covering
about 380,000 ha. of land some 120 km. west-northwest of Tehran. Of this area,
about 98,000 ha. are now cultivated by about 25,000 farming families. The
farmers produce wheat, barley, pulses and small amounts of sugar beets, cotton
and vegetables. They graze considerable numbers of sheep, goats and cattle in
the area and on nearby range pastures. Efficiency is low and farm family
incomes average $200-$300 annually.
22.       The central purpose of the Ghazvin development project is to triple
farm incomes within a decade by increasing the area of irrigated farmlands by
one-third; by introducing mechanized farming and modern agricultural methods;
and by changing from the present concentration on wheat and barley to a diver-
sified cropping program, including industrial crops (sugar beets, cotton),
vegetables, fruit, etc.
23.       The reconnaissance report of the Ghazvin development project prepared
by the Government's foreign consultants has been submitted to the Bank. The
report suggests development and capital works expenditures totaling $40 million.
24.       In addition to reconstruction of the earthquake-damaged area the pro-
ject includes the establishment of three rural centers equipped with marketing,
administrative and agricultural processing facilities to serve the whole area.
The program visualizes crop diversification and mechanization of farming through-
out the area and the installation of up to 400 tubewells for irrigation. These
estimates do not include the reconstruction of the feeder-road network within
the area.
25.       The P.O. has approved construction of road No. V (within the project
area) and design and later construction of road No. VI (see Map 7). As both
roads would help the Ghazvin project only to a limited extent, other feeder-
roads are required to provide a satisfactory network for the area's development.
The construction of a sugar beet factory with a daily capacity of 1,000 tons
gives a degree of urgency to feeder-road construction in the project area, since
existing tracks are often impassable in winter when the beets are harvested.



ANNEX
IRAN: FEEDMTR-ROAD PROJECT           Page 5
26.       The foreign consultants' recommendations for feeder-roads, prepared
independently of the P.O. and their consulting engineers, contemplates the con-
struction of 356 km. of feeder-roads at an estimated total cost of Rls. 285
million (US$3.8 million). This represents probably only one-third of the
feeder-roads needed if the project is carried out as planned. Construction
designs and detailed cost estimates have not yet been prepared.
27.       By providing additional groundwater, estimated at 80 million m3
annually, the irrigated crop land would increase by some 18,000 ha. Instead
of concentrating on wheat, barley and field crops, which now cover 85 percent
of the cultivated land, it is proposed to increase gradually plantings of
sugar beets, cotton and other industrial crops. Orchards and vegetable farms
managed cooperatively or individually are expected to occupy about one-third
of the irrigated lands. A program to improve animal husbandry is another
important part of the project.
28.       No detailed economic evaluation of the project is available, but the
consultants have estimated that the total $40 million investment will result
in net additional farm incomes of about $15 million per annum within ten years
of its completion. The estimated cost of the proposed road constructions would
increase the total investment from $40 million to $43.8 million. The increased
productivity would still provide adequate economic justification.



TABLE 1
Page 1
IRAN: FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
Details of Project Roads
Road No.     Width (m)  Length (Km.)  Cost (Million Rls.)
A. Gorgan Area             6          6.5          20       17.0
Consulting firm        11          6.5          63       54.0 (25 km under con-
HAMKAR                                                         struction)
16          6.5          43       38.0 (under construction)
Total        3                      126      109.0
B. Amol Area 2/            2          6.5          36       40.0
Consulting firm         3          6.5          37       61.0
HAP4IKAR                5          6.5          26       23.0
7          6.5          35       24.0 (under construction)
8          6.5          10       12.0
9          6.5          30       32.0 (under construction)
12          6.5          26       25.0
13          6.5          20       16,0
15          6.5          26       19.0
Total        9                      246      252.0
C. Ramsar Area 3/          4          6.5          20       26.0
Consulting Firm         5          6.5           6        8.0
Taleghani, Daftary      6          6.5          14       19.0
7          6.5          12       18.0
Total        4                       52       71.0
D. Sefid-Rud Delta Area 4?
Consulting Firm         1          8.0          24       31.0 (under construction)
Taleghani, Daftary      2          8.0          15       18.0 (under construction)
4          8.0          11       14.0
5          8.0          14       34.0 (under construction)
6          8.0          10       22.0
8          8.0          25       28.0 (under construction)
11          8.0          19       34.0
12          8.0          20       44.0
14          8.0          11        8.0
15          8.0          11       12.0
16          8.0           8       11.0
18          8.0          13       16.0
19          8.0           8        8.0
20          8.0           8        7.0
21          8.0          24       29.0
22          8.0           5        7.0
24          8.0          15       21.0
31          8.0          38      119.0
Total       18                      279      463.o



TABLE 1
Page 2
Road No.  Width (m)   Length (Km.)  Cost (Million Rlso)
E. Kermanshah-Hamadan
Area 5/                A         6.5           22       13.0
Consulting firm         E1        8.0          32        18.0
Atras Co.               G         8.0           31       18.0 (under construction)
H         8.0           35)
6.5          23 )      30.0
J         8.0           41       35.0 (under construction)
Ki        8.0           35       32.0
L         8.0           18        8.0
Ll        8.0           67       75.0
M         8.0           31       15.0 (under construction)
N         8.0           22       11.0
P         8.0           45       17.0
V         8.0           42       26.0 (11 km under construc-
tion)
Total       12                      444      298.0
F. Ghazvin Area 6/
Consulting Firm         I         8.0          56         -
Engineering            II         8.0          30         -
Consortium            III         8.o          25         -
IV         8.0           60        -
V         6.5           30        -
VI          6.5          40        -
VII          6.5          80        -
VIII          6.5          35        -
Total        8                      356      285,0 (tentative)
Grand Total        54                   1,503    1478.0
1/  The road numbers are those as appearing in the consultantst feasibility reports.
On certain roads, only portions of the lengths proposed were included in the pro-
ject.
2/ All roads are finally surveyed and designed, except roads No. 3 and 8 which will
be completed within one month. All roads are included in the P.O. program.
3/  The roads have not yet been engineered.
4/ Road No. 31 is not included in the P.O. program.     Trial design completed for all
roads, except road No. 22 which is 85 percent completed.
5/ All roads are included in the P.O. feeder-road program.     For those roads not yet
given on contracts design work is 90 percent completed.
6/ No cost estimate is yet prepared by the consultant.     The per km cost is estimated
to be about Ris. 800,000 and this unit cost is used to obtain the tentative cost
estimate for the whole area.



TABLE 1
Page 3
Feeder-roads under construction as per
March 1965. Contracts awarded without
International Competive Bidding
Length   Cost in     Total
Km.   mil. rials   Cost
Gorgan Area
Road No. 11 (only 25 km)                               25       22
Road No. 16                                            43       38
68       60          60
Amol Area
Road No. 7                                             35       24
Road No. 9                                             30       32
65       56          56
Ramsar Area
Road No. 1                                             24       31
Road No. 2                                             15       18
Road No. 5                                             14       34
Road No. 8                                             25       28
78      111         111
Kermanshah-Hamadan Area
Road No. G.                                            31       18
Road No. J.                                            41       35
Road.No. M.                                            31       15
Road No. V. (only 11 km)                               11        7
114       75          75
Grand Total               325 Ym.               302 Rls.



IRAN: FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
Design Standards
Traffic
Min. Radius of Curves        Grades        Design Speed Km/h            Requirement
Embankment     Flat      Hilly     Mount.                Flat       Hilly     Mount.
Width       Country   Country   Country      Max.     Country    Country   Country         ADT
Class I          8.0 m       100 m       40 m      20 m        10%       60        50         35       More than 50
Class II         6.5 m       100 m       40 m      20 m        11%       50        40         30         20 - 50
Class III        5.0 m       100 m       40 m      20 m       12%        40        30         20       Less than 20



TABLE 3
MRAN: F-PP I.7ROAD PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Km.     Cost in Million Rls.
Construction
A.  Gorgan area                                   126              109.0
B. Amol area                                      246              252.0
C.  Ramsar area                                    52               7L10
D. Sefid-Rud Delta                                 279             46300
E.  Kermanshah-.Hamadan area                      444             298.0
F. Ghazvin area                                    356             285$0
1,503           1247800
Additional roads to be specified later             297             300.0
1.,800          1,778.0
Survey, Design and Supervision
(See details, Table !)                                            318.0
Laboratory Equipment                                                12e0
2,10800
Contingencies 20 percent                                          422.0
Total                   2,530.0
(US$33.7 million
equiv.)
Note:  Of the 1,800 km of feeder-roads included in the project, 325 km have
been given on contract (see Table 1, Page 3) at a total cost of
Rls. 302.0 million without international competitive bidding.   Those
roads are included in the project, but not financed from the loan.
Therefore, total construction cost to be financed out of the loan will
be:
Rls. 1,778
- Rls.   302
Rls. 1,76 million



TABLE 4
IRAN: FEEDER-ROAD PROJECT
Detailed Breakdown of Engineering Costs
In Million
Rials
A.  Consultants fees for 1,800 km of feeder-
roads according to present contracts.
a. Reconnaissance and feasibility study (lump sum)       6.0
b. Final design @ per km Rls. 40,000                    72.0
c. Supervision @ per km Rls. 50,000                     90.0
168.0
Plus 25 percent increase                             42.0
Sub-total          210.0
B. Foreign Technical Experts (on the staff
of consultants and P.O.)
a. Soil test - 4 experts for 24 months
@ per man/month Rls. 225,000             21.6
b. Supervision
- 8 engineers for 24 months
@ per man/month Rls. 225,0co             86.4
Sub-total          108.0
C.  Laboratory Equipment                                    12.0
Total              330.0
Foreign Exchange Cost                                  In Million   In Millions
Rials         US$
1. Construction of 1,475 km of
feeder-roads 27% of Rls. 1,476 million          Ris. 400   =   5.40
2.  Foreign experts (see B above) 100%                   108       1.44
3. Laboratory equipment - 100% (see C above)              12       0.16
Rls. 52-0      7.00
+ 20% contingencies                                105   =   1.50
Total          Rls. 625   =   8050



TABLE 5
IRAN: FT--D-. ROAD PID JECT
*
Comparison of Present and Future
Production in Volume and Value
Cultivated
Crop                    Area           Yield        Production       Value 2
(700o ha)       (Kg/ha)       ('COO tons)  (Million Rls.)
A. Gorgan Area
Wheat                    36 (4o)    1,100 (1,200)     39.6 (48)       277 (336)
Barley           2      18 (12)     1,000 (1,100)     18.0 (11)        72   (44)
Cotton irrigated J/       8 (20)    2,400 (2,400)     19.2 (48)       288 (720)
Cotton *nirrigated 2/    18 (35)    1,100 (1,200)     19.8 (42)       298 (630)
Other crops 3/            4  (8)        -               -    -         80 (160)
Total   84 (115)                                    1,015 (1,890)
3B Ahnol Area
Rice                     70 (80)    2,300 (2,500)    161  (200)     1,610 (2,040)
Wheat                    20 (20)    1,000 (1,100)     20   (22)       120   (130)
Cotton                  25 (35)     1,000 (1,200)     25   (42)       375   (630)
Other                    35 (35)     _      -          -     -        420   (525)
Total  150 (170)                                    2,555 (3s325)
C. Ramsar Area
Tea (dry)              1.6   (3)      625   (750)      1 (2.25)        80   (180)
Rice                    9.0 (13)    2,000 (2,000)     18 (24.00)      185   (245)
Other /                 2.0  (4)     -      -          -    -          40    (60)
Total 12.6 (20)                                       305  (485)
D. Sefid-Rud Delta V
Rice                   80.0 (158)   2,50 (4,000)    212  (632)     1,906 (5,690)
Other                 30.0 (52)                        -    -         750 (1,300)
Dry land               71.0 (10)     -      -          _    -         994   (140)
Total 181.0 (220)                                   3,650 (7, 130)
E. Kermanshah-Hamadan
Area
Iheat, dry             94.0 (130)    050  (0.60)   47.0 (78MO)       282 (487 )
Wheat, irrigated        8.0  (12)    1.25  (1.50)   10,0 (18.0)        60 (112"
Barley                27eO   (20)    0.75  (0.75)   20.0 (15.0)        81 (65.'
Legiunes               2.5    (6)    0.50  (0.60)    1,3  (3.6)        21 (650
Sugar beets             -     (5)         (20.00)     - (0.0            -80)
Cotton                  -     (3      _    (o060      - (1.8            -   27j
Tobacco                 -     (2            0 (°50)       (1.0          -  34 )
Others, inc. alfalfa   3.5   (12)     --                    -          21(1L0O)
Permanent crops       10.0   (15)            --                              -
Total 145,0 (205)                                     465 (965 )
See page 2 for footnotes.



TABLE 5
Page 2
At farm level.
Seed cotton.
2/ Oil seeds, melons, legumes, millet; etc.
Includes melons, potatoes, pulses, vegetables, oil seeds.
' ielons, citrus and other fruits, vegetables.
The statistics and estimates supplied by the Sefid-Rud Water and Power
Authority. The future figures were estimated taking into account the
effects of the multipurpose project as well as the feeder road project.
Ten years after the completion of the proposed project.   The future
figures are shown in brackets. For the Ghazvin area no detailed
information is available,



-.-_  U.  S.  S.  R.                               U.    5.     5.   R
C \-<-  , ~~~~~ 7  t.  X ~~CASPIAN  SEA        \_  _, _   
rn See  *-  esoOd         D                / Y  Shohpoo-d
)    )d.  Mlvoodorob hroh  zjon B A-e mnCShon                   Khh  h  b
e--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
57 Sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~obeds      *a  \  .rP
A DAN  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Koshon                                          Mogos (
.       L-1  ||hoh oloto b _  Ardokon  \   )  /   \  Dor2in   /   Zohe-o3P  4 o
FEEDER~~     KhoOADa  NRJC-   -.mKo        /   9i  )Rosr                          .
, ~  CLMTR . .. ... a  a sQto~>/                                          ouK f
OCTOBER 1964                                                                     IBRD-1923



I R A N
FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
A
GORGAN AREA      (EAST   MAZANDARAN)
Existinig roads                                                                    Gonbadqabus
Proposed feeder roads
0       5       10     15      20
KILOMETERS
Pahiavi Deh  |o~ GuiTotorghon
OCTOBER 1964                                                                             IB4q Nuri
/I  f   /( D  )                      I                            X      S  nc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hahpa sond
l       _Jlghi Oono~~~gh                                                       lan
Pahlav Dzh        l        Yolghi Gomushii|Dln
oveme     oozn                                  o          J
Shcrif     \ 
GhorbonaobdJ
>                       ~~~~~~~~~~Taghiabad<|
Maihmudobad                   Meyonbd          ;labod
:n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                        e   mawemlek
Q,                Jolb                aghar Tappeh
ToKgr Shalhrud 
OCTOBER 1964                                                                                                    IBRD- 1424



I RAN
FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
B                                                        CASPIANV  SEA
AMOL AREA (EAST MAZANDARAN)
______E.sitiog mlain  o...ds 
…       Sx--- bistileg secondary  roads ,
Proposed feeder roads                                                        ,
a . O---*-O- ORilwary 
0     5     10   15    2.-
KILOMETERS--
S ithisel  *             -      hnmPrl;                           _    _                                       Behshohr
K.1-                                                                             Sari.h nad  rj
Sal. Rd oh ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   . 
Suehdeh                \,      (i)>         I                                            /h                  S
Agho-6bon                                                                                                                   D 1
OCTOBER1964                                                                                                                                         IBR- 42



GASP/AN  SEA                    ~~~~~~~~~~~I RA N
Qo& ...            . CASPIAN  SEA.....        FEEDER        ROAD     PROJECT
Oshion                                       RAMSAR AREA (WEST MAZANDARAN)
Choboksor &. :
Existing roads
Akhund malleh                                   Proposed feceder roads
(XRaumst.  D  5  10  15  2
KILOMETERS
Javaherdeh
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\  2           \  ~~~~~~~~elengon  _z/ Z          -      a    u 
0X                                                                          48/  . 
OCTOBER 94                                          BZareh-
OCTOBER 1964                                                                          IBRD-1426



FEEDER ROAD PROJECT
-zvondeh                  CASPIAN  SEA                                       D
Pffl zunel  \(I )   ':"'                                                  SEFID  RUD  DELTA
Ex______fisting roads
=-roposed feeder roads
)-".                    .... .-   . . o5 10  5  20
KILOMETERS
sh.         XU                       ;                           d? 
h                              K-htrudkhon OlebudEhc          /Nosirmohcileh ,  0/ ..fokoo eh  B pur
Lok-           N                C SLostl,, esho 
G-b .i h  Sum                    .g ,/e/
OCTO B E R   19 64  Ic  mcz  g  ,zs -  e-
OCTOBER2 196aft                Aq4yedho.                                                  f   ff
Sh.10~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BD12



I R A N             Divandorreh  To Khorkore   To Zenjan
FEEDER        ROAD      PROJECT                             Bohj
E
KERMANSHAH-HAMADAN      AREA                                           Akanlou
Existinig paved roads
Existing main roads
Proposed fccder roads                                                                  RI
,,,,, | 9-I-Railway                 Zenand=                                Koloffeh                     oozon
"nNosud                                      hre
r-C                                                   KAoori ja                     
Khanoghinn                                   mayan \  \ 
<   tA                                                 \               >Burujird            ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ai
Ghs r- \/.                                                                     Tousser a
i,uzoo                                                      Kong                     Chlnhuo 
l (!) .88 Chorhobod f 
.   '-  ~      ~~~~~ 'o  20  30  40  50    >0<
KILOMETERS
JANUARY 1965                                                                                                   IBRD-1428R



IRAN
FEEDER     ROAD    PROJECT                                           Ghazvin
F
GHAZVIN AREA
Existing paved roads
--- Existig tr-ks/
Aprop iate alignment of
proposed feeder ro-ds
R-o-444-- ilsoy
0  2                                                      *iw                                                       lo.eh/  I
KILOMETERS  0   n
Ta Z-oj-
Abevek
Dooesfnotn                                    XL 
I     -  - - - - - -  -  - - -     |
\;~~      ~~~~~~                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~ /S                                 Tofra -V
y                     3    _    __\t,-' os ,,"s X I
> \ / Ce.rcle, _                                                            > \I2=_
JANUARY 1965                                                                                                                           IBRD-1429R



