THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InfoShop
Initial Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                SLOVAK REPUBLIC-Public Finance Management Project
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Central government administration (100%)
Project ID                  P069864
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)                 SLOVAK REPUBLIC
Implementing Agency         MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address                     Address: Stefanovi6ova 5, 817 82 Bratislava, Slovak Republic
Contact Person Mr Pavol Ochotnicky, Project Coordinator
Tel (++421-2) 5958-2351, 2350   Fax (++421-2) 5958-2360     Email
pochotnicky@mfsr sk or Islobodnikova@mfsr sk
Environment Category        C
Date PID Prepared           March 25, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 20, 2003
Bank Approval Date          May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Background. Slovakia is a member of the OECD, and will be facing important fiscal challenges
following its invitation to join the European Union in May 2004. The general Government deficit
excluding privatization revenues, and including called guarantees and bank restructuring costs amounted
to 9.1 and 8.5 percent of GDP in 2000 and 2001 respectively. It is likely that the figure for 2002 will be
of the order of 7.5-8.0 percent. The large rise in the deficit compared to figures of 4-5 percent of GDP
prior to 1999, reflects both policy driven revenue losses aimed at making the country more competitive
and a failure to carry out structural reforms of public expenditure particularly in the social sector. The
resulting fiscal deficits are clearly unsustainable, inconsistent with the Maastricht criteria, and will
require a substantial fiscal consolidation. The level of the public debt is not yet a serious problem (the
general Government gross debt/GDP ratio was around 43 percent at the end of 2001, but net debt was
only 12.8 percent of GDP) but there are two matters of concern: the significant increase in the gross
public debt in the last five years (by 16 percentage points) and the high level of state guarantees (about
18 percent of GDP at the end of 2001). Moreover, the share of foreign-currency debt in total debt is
relatively high (40 percent) and the fact that about one-third of the foreign debt is in non-euro currencies
exposes the debt portfolio to a considerable exchange risk, thereby increasing the vulnerability of the
economy to external shocks. In a potentially volatile international financial environment, the benefits
gained by Slovakia in recent years from prudent macroeconomic management and structural reforms
could be compromised by losses caused by unexpected changes in foreign interest rates and exchange
rates.
As the DPR concludes, the next year offers a window of opportunity to act on these key issues. The



2
PID
drive to meet the obligations of EU membership provides a strong framework and impetus for much of
the needed policy actions. However, the Government's success in designing and implementing a
comprehensive reform program will depend fundamentally on its capacity to strengthen the institutional
framework in which those policies are conceived, decided upon. and executed. And within this
institutional framework, public-finance management structures will be key.
Main Issues. Obtaining sustainable public finances is not simply a question of having the political will to
impose expenditure cuts or raise revenues. Sustainable public finances depend on a system of
institutions, including relationships between the Ministry of Finance, the line ministries, individual
ministers, and the Parliament. Effective management of public finances requires an understanding
among policy-makers in all spheres that policies are constrained by the available resources and that there
should be mechanisms that oblige policy-makers to confront the resulting fiscal choices openly.
Public finance institutions can help this process by providing a framework in which (i) meaningful
choices can be made; (ii) coordination can be established and consensus reached among interested
parties; (iii) the selected programs can be implemented, and (iv) reliable feedback is generated following
the evaluation of the policy to permit corrective action where needed. The Government recognizes the
need to urgently modemize its public finance system, including budgeting, financial planning; cash and
debt management, public accounts, payment system, public expenditure management and financial
control, in order create an integrated system capable of achieving these goals.
Government Strategv. Historically, the budgeting process in the Slovak Republic was driven by
"budgetary incrementalism," whereby each spending agency applies for funding based on its own
assessment of financial needs for existing personnel and facilities. Moreover, the focus of budgeting was
on an extremely short time horizon and on a narrow state budget that excluded numerous extra-budgetary
activities. This narrow budget fell far short of the standard definition of general Government and did not
provide an effective indicator of the impact of public finances on the overall economy. Equally, budget
preparation was not embedded in a sound and consistent macroeconomic framework.
In response to this state of affairs, in 1999 the Government launched an ambitious program of public
finance reforms, consisting of abolishing extra-budgetary funds, adopting new audit legislation, the
introduction of a medium-term fiscal outlook, a major overhaul of budgetary legislation, elaborating and
implementing ESA95 and GFS2001 methodologies for reporting on public finance, improving control of
the deficits of local Governments and public funds, initiating fiscal decentralization, adopting a pilot
scheme for program budgeting, and creating a legal framework for a State Treasury and a Debt and
Liquidity Management Agency. In many cases, however, the institutional capacity to implement these
changes has not yet been fully developed.
2. Objectives
The development objective is to strengthen Slovakia's institutional capacity to use public
resources more effectively, efficiently and transparently, in line with Government priorities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
(i) Institution Building. The Bank will help strengthen institutional capacity to deal with public
expenditure management issues in general, and budget preparation in particular, in accordance with
international norms.
(ii) The Bank is also uniquely placed to play a substantive role of coordinating and "orchestrating"
assistance (EU/PHARE and other external partners) to achieve the objectives mentioned above.
(iii) Training. The Bank will provide help in training to develop skills in the area of budgeting,
macro-economic analysis, debt management and treasury operations and to ensure that each of these



3
PID
areas is properly linked to the others to meet long term needs of public expenditure management in a
market economy, about to enter the EU.
4. Description
The Project will assist the Government in improving budgetary and financial management of
Government operations, in particular in: (1) improving the budget process by supporting the effective
implementation of program budgeting within an overall medium term framework and eventually fully
fledged multi-annual budgeting; (2) strengthening the macro-economic analysis and forecasting capacity
of the Ministry and tightening its link to other elements of the public finance system; (3) supporting the
establishment of a professional debt management capacity and completing the institutional set up of the
new Treasury System together with provision of training in both these areas; (4) supporting technical
expertise to ensure effective the coordination of the overall reform effort.
The first project component, to improve the budget process, would help the Government to improve
allocative and operational efficiency of public expenditures by: (i) establishing a framework to link
policy decisions to budgeting, and make strategic policy choices through prioritization of programs
within an available resource envelope at a sectoral and national level; (ii) increasilg the predictability of
funding so that ministries can plan ahead and programs can be sustained; (iii) providing line ministries
and other budget chapters with increased autonomy and greater incentives for efficient and effective use
of funds; (iv) generating a seamless budget process in wlhich the regular evaluation of outcomes and
results feeds into future budgetary choices; (v) creating capacity in the Ministry of Finance for regular
expenditure reviews; and (vi) analyzing and preparing a policy menu for appropriate alternative financing
arrangements to support a more decentralized system of public service delivery.
The second component, to strengthen macro-economic capacity in the MOF, would help establish the
FPI as the core of macro-analysis in the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole, which
would require major technical and organizational improvements including: (i) developing close
institutional links between the FPI and the Tax Policy and Budget Sections of the MOF as well as with
the Treasury and the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) in macroeconomic forecasting; (ii) assigning a
central role to macroeconomic forecasts of the FPI as the sole basis for establishing the resource
envelope for the budget process, and (iii) improving the quality of the medium term macroeconomic and
fiscal forecasts of the FPI, as well as the economic reports accompanying the budget.
The third component, to support debt management and treasury, would assist the Government in: (i)
the development of an institutional structure in which the roles and accountability of the Ministry of
Finance and the Debt and Liquidity Management Agency are clearly defined, with an appropriate
distinction between the formulation of the debt management strategy by the Minister of Finance and the
execution of that strategy by an operationally independent agency; (ii) ensuring the efficient, transparent,
and professional management of public debt and financial assets with an appropriate balance between
risks and costs; (iii) reforming the domestic debt market (organization of the market; improvement of
communication with participants) and the overall legal framework for debt management; and (iv)
facilitating the use of the new treasury system by end-users.
The fourth component, to provide support in program coordination and project management, would
finance technical assistance to help senior management of the Ministry of Finance deal with
organizational and institutional aspects of implementing the reform program and address the management
of change appropriately. This component will also provide inputs and advice to: (i) design and
implement effective institutional arrangements to link policy-making at the highest levels to a reflection
of choices in the budget; (ii) structurally reform MOF's organization, procedures and culture; and (nii)
introduce effective project implementation arrangements to ensure that the project can provide timely and



4
PID
flexible support to the reform program.
(1) Improving budget process
(2) Strengthening macro-economic capacity
(3) Supporting debt management and treasury
(4) Reform Coordination
(5) PPF
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                   $1.06
IBRD                       $6.00
IDA
Total Project Cost         $7 06
6. Implementation
A Steering Committee chaired by the State Secretary of Minister of Finance responsible for budget
reform, and including the State Secretary responsible for the State Treasury as well as the directors of
key departments within the Ministry of Finance, the State Treasury and the Debt Agency has been set up
to coordinate the overall Public Finance Management Reform. In addition, a senior advisor to the
Minister of Finance, with extensive experience of public sector reform, has been contracted under the
project to provide intellectual leadership and link project implementation to wider policy reform issues.
He has been appointed as vice-chair of the Steering Committee.
The Steering Committee is responsible for overall policy within the Public Finance Reform and strategic
coordination of reform efforts and replaces a number of separate committees which existed previously
and were leading to a fragmentation of the reform efforts. It also includes a legislative review group to
coordinate and package legal changes required to give effect to institutional reforms.
In addition, there is a Project Coordination Group to deal with project related matters, chaired by the
State Secretary and comprises the Advisor to the Minister and the acting Director of the Division for
European Integration and Relations with International Institutions. The secretariat for both the Steering
Committee and the Project Coordination Groups is in the hands of the Project Coordinator and an
assistant (hired as consultants). They are also responsible for day to day project implementation and
administration, and should facilitate resolution of obstacles to project implementation. And finally,
guided by the Steering Committee, that are responsible for ensuring that the project resources being used
in a flexible and effective way, to ensure that the project responds to evolving needs.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project depends largely upon the commitment by the authorities to the project
objectives. The new Government was elected on a strong reform platform and has demonstrated during
its first six months to be serious in trying to implement its wide-ranging agenda early on its electoral
period. Public finance reform has always been a pillar of this wider transformation of Government and
society. The Government realizes that Slovakia has lagged many of its neighbors in public finance
reform and now, on the eve of EU accession, is anxious to catch up. The MOF and other related
institutions are currently being strengthened by the recruitment of talented reformers to key posts, who
will be critical to built the key institutions capable of sustaining the reforms beyond the term of the
current Government.



5
PID
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project activities build upon the policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank in recent years.
The need to strengthen the management of the public sector, and public finances in particular, is
underlined in the January 2001 CAS. In 2000-02, the Bank produced several ESW pieces of relevance for
this project including (I) a consultant report onl Extra-budgetary Funds (prepared by the former State
Secretary of Finance of Hungary); (2) a consultant report on Public Debt Management Issues (prepared
by the Head and the Director of research of the Portuguese Debt management Agency); (3) an assessment
by Bank staff ofthe Government's Strategy for Building the Treasury System; and (4) a consultant report
on budgetary rules for decentralization.
The World Bank has been involved in the reform of budgetary institutions and in improving the
management of public finances in several ECA countries including Albania, Latvia, Russia, Hungary,
Kazakhstan and Ukraine. Specifically on public debt management, this project benefits from other World
Bank activities (including an IDF for the Czech Republic building institutional capacities in fiscal risk
management, the Public Finance Management Project in Hungary, and a Debt Management
Implementation Plan for the Ministry of Finance of Poland) and general Bank's expertise in the public
finance management area. The project also benefits from the integrated approach emphasized in the
Guidelines for Public Debt Management developed jointly by IMF and the World Bank to assist
countries to reduce financial vulnerability.
Bank experience with public finance management projects has shown that their success depends on.
I . Commitment at the highest level: Both leadership by the Minister of Finance and commitment of
the Cabinet as a whole (see item 4 below) are very strong.
2. Government ownership: The Government has initiated the reforms and is fully "in charge" of the
process
3. Realistic time-frame: Institutional reforms need to be developed over a long period of time to be
sustainable
4. Realistic goals and hands-on Bank supervision
5. Selectivity: the number of components must be limited and the project must be focused on the
essentials, in this instance ensuring that the budget process and structure be conducive to the
review of sectoral policies and programs within overall macroeconomic constraints
6. Ensure that linkages between all components of the reform are maintained and are understood by
all involved in the reforms
7. Communication and other change management techniques are critical to co-opt and convince
existing staff of the need for the reforms
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues: N/A
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sandra Bloemenkamp
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433



6
PID
Telephone 202-458-9109
Fax: 202-522-2751
11 For information on other project related documents contact
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone- (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http 1I www worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending  05/11/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH _       FfEED8ACK  _     L*srTEAP     jhOW_ASE



