25679
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
f nfoS-hop
,'Mc W~X Kk
Report No AC069864
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/27/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SLOVAK REPUBLIC                        Project ID: P069864
Project: Public Finance Management Project      Task Team Leader: Sandra Bloemenkamp
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 20, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m): 6.00
Bank Approval: May 29, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSPE                             Sector: Central government administration (100%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: Public expenditure; financial management
Status: Lending                                 and procurement (P); Debt management and fiscal
substainability (P); Economic statistics; modeling
and forecasting (S); Other public sector governance
(S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The development objective is to strengthen Slovakia's institutional capacity to use public
resources more effectively, efficiently and transparently, in line with Government priorities.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Project will assist the Government in improving budgetary and financial management of
Government operations, in particular in: (1) improving the budget process by supporting the effective
implementation of program budgeting within an overall medium term framework and eventually fully
fledged multi-annual budgeting; (2) strengthening the macro-economic analysis and forecasting capacity
of the Ministry and tightening its link to other elements of the public finance system; (3) supporting the
establishment of a professional debt management capacity and completing the institutional set up of the
new Treasury System together with provision of training in both these areas; (4) supporting technical
expertise to ensure effective the coordination of the overall reform effort.
The first project component, to improve the budget process, would help the Government to improve
allocative and operational efficiency of public expenditures by: (i) establishing a framework to link
policy decisions to budgeting, and make strategic policy choices through prioritization of programs
within an available resource envelope at a sectoral and national level; (ii) increasing the predictability of
funding so that ministries can plan ahead and programs can be sustained; (iii) providing line ministries
and other budget chapters with increased autonomy and greater incentives for efficient and effective use
of funds; (iv) generating a seamless budget process in which the regular evaluation of outcomes and
results feeds into future budgetary choices; (v) creating capacity in the Ministry of Finance for regular



2
ISDS
expenditure reviews; and (vi) analyzing and preparing a policy menu for appropriate alternative financing
arrangements to support a more decentralized system of public service delivery.
The second component, to strengthen macro-economic capacity in the MOF, would help establish the
FPI as the core of macro-analysis in the Ministry of Finance and the Government as a whole, which
would require major technical and organizational improvements including: (i) developing close
institutional links between the FPI and the Tax Policy and Budget Sections of the MOF as well as with
the Treasury and the National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) in macroeconomic forecasting; (ii) assigning a
central role to macroeconomic forecasts of the FPI as the sole basis for establishing the resource
envelope for the budget process, and (iii) improving the quality of the medium term macroeconomic and
fiscal forecasts of the FPI, as well as the economic reports accompanying the budget.
The third component, to support debt management and treasury, would assist the Govemment in: (i)
the development of an institutional structure in which the roles and accountability of the Ministry of
Finance and the Debt and Liquidity Management Agency are clearly defined, with an appropriate
distinction between the formulation of the debt management strategy by the Minister of Finance and the
execution of that strategy by an operationally independent agency; (ii) ensuring the efficient, transparent,
and professional management of public debt and financial assets with an appropriate balance between
risks and costs; (iii) reforming the domestic debt market (organization of the market; improvement of
communication with participants) and the overall legal framework for debt management; and (iv)
facilitating the use of the new treasury system by end-users.
The fourth component, to provide support in program coordination and project management, would
finance technical assistance to help senior management of the Ministry of Finance deal with
organizational and institutional aspects of implementing the reform program and address the management
of change appropriately. This component will also provide inputs and advice to: (i) design and
implement effective institutional arrangements to link policy-making at the highest levels to a reflection
of choices in the budget; (ii) structurally reform MOF's organization, procedures and culture; and (iii)
introduce effective project implementation arrangements to ensure that the project can provide timely and
flexible support to the reform program.
Components:
(1) Improving budget process
(2) Strengthening macro-economic capacity
(3) Supporting debt management and treasury
(4) Reform Coordination
(5) PPF



3
ISDS
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Project involves institutional developments of a number of central government ministries and
institutions in Bratislava. the project only finances technical assistance and training, no goods or works are
envisaged. Therefore, no impact on the local environment is expected.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: There is no civil works or reconstruction associated with the Project.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                  0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be laken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
none
ll.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
none
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
none
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
n/a
Hl.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
I1.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.



4
ISDS
n/a
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framnework:                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Developnment Plan/Framework:             Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan.                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Sandra Bloemenkamp                          March 19, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:



5
ISDS
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Anil Markandya                             March 20, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:       Helga W. Muller                             March 19, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SFtCIt 1KO E1W                                             F



