Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7178-SK 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Public Finance Management Project) 
 
between 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 4, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7178-SK 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 2003, between SLOVAK REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
(A) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
the term “Categories” means more than one (1) Category collectively; 
 
(b) 
“Debt and Liquidity Management Agency” means the agency established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 291, dated May 21, 2002, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;   
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of the 
Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on       
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(e) 
“FPI” means the Financial Policy Institute within the MOF (as 
hereinafter defined in paragraph (f) of this Section) responsible for assessing the 
macroeconomic conditions of the Borrower and their implications for the development of 
public finances; 
 
(f) 
“Ministry of Finance” and “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance established and functioning pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law 
No. 575, dated December 12, 2001,  as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(g) 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators” means the agreed performance 
indicators set forth in a letter of even date herewith to be utilized by the Borrower under 
the Project to measure the progress in the implementation of the Project and the degree to 
which the objectives thereof are being achieved; 
 
(h) 
“Project Coordination Group” means the group established by the 
Decision of the Borrower’s Minister of Finance No. 26, dated October 15, 2002, and 
referred to in paragraph 2, Section I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project Preparation Advance 
No. P396-0-SK granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter Agreement 
signed on behalf of the Bank on December 20, 2001, and on behalf of the Borrower on 
December 27, 2001; 
 
(j) 
“State Treasury” means the entity established and functioning pursuant 
to the provisions of the Borrower’s Law No. 291, dated  May 21, 2002; and 
 
(k) 
“Steering Committee” means the Committee established by the Decision 
of the Borrower’s  Minister of Finance No. 26, dated October 15, 2002 and referred to in 
paragraph 1, Section  I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Euros (EUR 5,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
Page  5
-
3
-
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be January 1, 2007 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an 
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:            
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and       
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually 
in arrears on February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of Finance 
Page  6
-
4
-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, fiscal, management, treasury and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the selection and 
employment of consultants’ services
 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan
 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than five months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
Page  7
-
5
-
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and  in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) e
nable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a)  The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  8
-
6
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent quarter, and shall cover such quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
 
is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Ul. Stefanovicova 5 
81782 Bratislava 
P.O. Box 82 
Slovak Republic 
 
Telex 
  Facsimile: 
 
21868 
  (421-2) 
5249-8065 
Page  9
-
7
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
 
as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SLOVAK REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Peter Kmec 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Shigeo Katsu 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures
 Category
(Expressed in Euros)
to be financed
(1) 
Consultants’ Services, 
2,760,000 
80% for foreign consulting 
 
including audits 
 
firms, 100% for foreign  
 
individual consultants,  
 
75%
for local consulting  
 
firms, and 74% for local  
 
individual consultants 
 
(2) Training: 
 
 
100% 
 
(a)  under Part C of the 
200,000 
 
Project 
 
(b)  under other Parts of 
210,000 
 
the Project 
 
(3) Incremental 
 
340,000 
 
85%  
 Operating 
Costs 
 
(4) 
Refunding of Project  
940,000 
Amounts due pursuant to 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
Section 2.02 (b) of this  
 
Agreement 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
50,000 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of this  
 
Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
500,000
TOTAL 5,000,000
Page  11
-
9
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “foreign individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of a territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
the term “local consulting firm” means a consulting firm which is 
registered or incorporated in the territory of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
the term “local individual consultant” means an individual consultant 
who is a national of the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(e) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred to 
finance the reasonable and necessary costs of the operations, administration and ordinary 
maintenance of the Project Coordination Group, and which include rent, utilities, office 
equipment, supplies, software, and the cost of salaries (excluding salaries of civil 
servants), communications, transportation and operational travel of the staff of the said 
Group. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of expenditures under Category 2(a), unless the Borrower 
has taken actions, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding the future status of the Debt and 
Liquidity Management Agency. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) services of consulting firms, 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii) training; and 
(iv) incremental operating costs, under contracts costing less than $15,000 each, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving the budgetary 
and financial management of its operations, in particular through: (i) the improvement of 
the budget process within an overall medium-term framework; (ii) the strengthening of 
the macro-economic analysis and forecasting capacity of the Ministry of Finance and the 
tightening of the link with other elements of the public finance system; (iii) the 
establishment of a professional debt management capacity and the completion of the 
institutional set-up of the new treasury system; and (iv) the effective coordination of the 
overall reform effort. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Improvement of the Budget Process
Carrying out of a program to improve allocative and operational efficiency of 
public expenditures by means of: (i) the establishment of a framework to link policy 
decisions to budgeting and to make strategic policy choices through prioritization of 
programs in MOF and key line ministries; (ii) an increased predictability of funding and 
of autonomy and incentives for line ministries and other budget chapters for efficient and 
effective use of funds; (iii) the implementation of a seamless budget process in which the 
regular evaluation of outcomes and results feeds into future budgetary choices; (iv) the 
enhancement of MOF’s capacity for regular expenditure reviews; and (v) the analysis and 
preparation of a policy menu for appropriate alternative financing arrangements to 
support a more decentralized public service delivery system, and encompassing the 
provision of technical assistance, training, study tours and seminars as required therefor. 
 
Part B:
Strengthening of the Macro-Economic Capacity in the MOF
Establishment of the FPI as the core of macro-analysis in the MOF through the 
introduction of major technical and organizational improvements including: (i) the 
development of close institutional links between the FPI and the Tax Policy and Budget 
Sections of the MOF and the Borrower’s Treasury and National Bank; (ii) the 
strengthening of the central role of the FPI’s macroeconomic forecasts as the sole basis 
for establishing the resource envelope for the budget process; and (iii) the improvement 
of the quality of the medium-term macroeconomic and fiscal forecasts of the FPI and the 
economic reports accompanying the budget, and encompassing the provision of technical 
assistance, training, study tours, seminars and internships as required therefor. 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
Part C:
Support to the Debt and Liquidity Management Agency and Introduction of a 
New Treasury System
Strengthening the Borrower’s capability to manage its financial assets and 
liabilities and introduction of the Borrower’s new state treasury to its users,
 
in particular 
by: 
 
(i) the development of an institutional structure in which the roles and accountability 
of the MOF and the Debt and Liquidity Management Agency are clearly defined, with an 
appropriate distinction between the formulation of the debt management strategy by the 
MOF and the execution of such strategy by an operationally independent agency; (ii) the 
efficient, transparent, and professional management of the Borrower’s public debt and 
financial assets with an appropriate balance between risks and costs; (iii) the further 
development  of the Borrower’s domestic debt market  and of the overall legal framework 
for debt management; and (iv) the facilitation of the use of the new treasury system by 
end-users, and encompassing the provision of technical assistance, training, study tours 
and internships as required therefor. 
.
Part D:
Program Coordination and Management
Strengthening of the MOF’s capabilities for effective public finance management 
reform coordination and Project management, in particular by assisting the senior 
management of the MOF in the continuous process of communication and coordination 
through new formal and informal structures and by providing the means to deal with 
organizational and institutional aspects of implementing the reform program and address 
the management of change appropriately, and including inputs and advice: (i) to design 
and implement effective institutional arrangements to link policy-making at the highest 
levels to a reflection of choices in the budget; (ii) to structurally reform the MOF's 
organization, procedures and culture; and (iii) to introduce effective Project 
implementation and auditing arrangements and to ensure that the Project can provide 
timely support to the reform program, and encompassing the provision of technical 
assistance and training as required therefor. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 1, 2006. 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
August 1, 2004 
8.74% 
 February1, 
2005 
9.62% 
 August 
1,2005 
10.58% 
 
February 1, 2006 
11.64% 
 
August 1, 2006 
12.80% 
 
February 1, 2007 
14.08% 
 
August 1, 2007 
15.49% 
 
February 1, 2008 
17.05% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  15
-
13
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Consultants’ Services 
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (i) the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and (ii) the following provisions of this 
Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits under the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for 
improving the budget process and for strengthening the macro 
capacity and debt management under the Project, including reform coordination,  
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants to provide support and continuous advice to 
the Borrower throughout Project implementation on program budgeting, expenditure 
Page  17
-
15
-
review, and the strengthening of the macroeconomic analytical capabilities therefor, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve (12) months during 
the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that prior review and approval by the Bank shall still apply to 
the terms of reference for all such contracts. 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Section I:
Organizational Arrangements
1. Steering 
Committee
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall maintain the Steering Committee 
throughout Project implementation for the purposes of ensuring an efficient coordination 
of the overall carrying out of the Project and, more specifically, with a view to defining 
the overall policy to be implemented under the Project and the strategic coordination of 
reform efforts thereunder.   
2. 
Project Coordination Group
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall maintain the Project Coordination Group 
throughout Project implementation with financial resources and the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in numbers adequate 
to enable it to carry out its responsibilities under the Project in accordance with 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. 
 Section II:
Reporting and Training Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower, through the MOF, shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about November 15, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 15, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
Page  19
-
17
-
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and th
e
Bank’s views on the matter. 
2. 
For the purposes of the training to be provided under the Project, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such training, 
including an explanation on how such training is consistent and conducive
 
to the 
objectives of the Project and whether it offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as
 
the 
schedule for its implementation; 
 
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom. 
Page  20
-
18
-
M:\BACKUP\SLOVAK\w-3024 Negotiated.doc 
4/9/2003 5:38 PM 
Page  21
-
19
-
M:\BACKUP\SLOVAK\w-3024 Negotiated.doc 
4/3/2003 3:44 PM
 
