            Document of
         The World Bank


                                     Report No: 65946 v1




      RESTRUCTURING PAPER

              ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

             OF THE

   CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT



        IBRD LOAN 7059-TUN


BOARD APPROVAL DATE: JUNE 12, 2001



             TO THE

       REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA




         November 22, 2011
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AMVPPC Cultural Heritage Enhancement and Promotion Agency
       (Agence de Mise en Valeur du Patrimoine et de Promotion Culturelle)

INP       National Heritage Institute (Institut National du Patrimoine)

MoC       Ministry of Culture

MTR       Mid-Term Review

PDO       Project Development Objective




           Regional Vice President:        Inger Andersen
                  Country Director:        Neil Simon Gray
          Sector Manager / Director:       Franck Bousquet / Emmanuel Mbi
                 Task Team Leader:         Chantal Reliquet




                                           2
                                                         TUNISIA

                                     CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
                                               P048825
                                             CONTENTS

                                                                                                                  Page


A. SUMMARY ....................................................................................................... ……4
B. PROJECT STATUS ................................................................................................. 4
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 5
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND
MONITORING………………………………………7




                                                               3
SUMMARY
1.     A level II restructuring of the Tunisia Cultural Heritage Project, scheduled to close on
December 31, 2011, is being requested to modify the description of some of the Project sub-
components and indicators in order to properly reflect the decisions made at the Project Mid-
Term review (2005) and implemented ever since. These changes will be reflected in the Project
Loan Agreement and Supplemental Letter.


PROJECT STATUS
2.      The Project was approved by the Board on October 16, 2001, with a total IBRD
commitment of Euro 19.2 million (US$17 million equivalent) and became effective on February
12, 2002. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was carried out in May 2005. The Closing Date of the
Loan was extended in 2007 and in 2010 to compensate for the accumulated delays in the
launching of works following the preparation of detailed studies for each site development,
lengthy approval procedures on the part of the Ministry of Culture and the National Tender
Board, as well as additional difficulties with the tendering process of works on the main project
sites. A third extension of the Closing Date of the Loan, from June 30, 2011 to December 31,
2011, was granted following delays in the completion of works associated with the recent
political events in Tunisia.

3.      As the Project is near completion, its overall development objective (PDO) – To support
the sustainable management of the country’s cultural management with a view to developing
cultural tourism – is partially achieved: much added attention has been brought to the
management of the heritage; impressive museums are about to be inaugurated; communication
and promotion of the heritage, albeit still modest, have much improved over the last stages of the
Project; and elements are in place for the development of cultural tourism.

4.      Project achievements are substantial: (i) the Project is the first of its kind able to
undertake a comprehensive approach to cultural heritage management focusing on the
enhancement of emblematic sites, capacity-building, awareness raising, and overall impact on
cultural tourism and local economic development; (ii) the museums that have been renovated and
expanded through the Project comply with the best international standards of safety and modern
display, are unique in the region, and represent appealing architectural advances1; the works have
been implemented at a fraction of the cost of international comparators, through open
competition and sound procurement, and within a timeline also below international practices; the
appeal of these new museums is already evident; and (iii) the impact on local economic
development has been evidenced on the sites, particularly in Kairouan, where businesses and
shops have been created or expanded following the works implemented in the medina.

1
  Clearing of a citadel and underground construction in the case of Sousse, rehabilitation of a XIXth century palace,
and extensive expansion in the case of the Bardo.

                                                         4
5.      The current PDO-level indicators – agreement on a national cultural heritage
management strategy; increase in the number of visitors to the sites; and increase in revenues
from ticket and product sales on the three most visited sites – are not meaningful since: (i)
advancement toward agreement on the strategy, while achieved overall, cannot be substantiated
with an adequate unit of measure; and (ii) the expected increase in the number of visitors and in
revenues can only be assessed after a few months following museum inauguration. Evidence
from international comparators2 suggests that both museums, which are benefitting from a
privileged location in the Mediterranean region and Europe, will be successful, promote cultural
tourism, and contribute to tourism diversification and local development. At this stage, however,
given the overall delays of the Project and for consistency with the current indicators, both PDO
and implementation performance are rated “moderately unsatisfactory?.

4.      Performance indicators are all also rated “moderately unsatisfactory?. Financial
management and procurement are satisfactory. Safeguard compliance with BP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment) and BP 4.11 (Physical Cultural Resources) has been satisfactory.
Project audit compliance has been satisfactory throughout the Project.



PROPOSED CHANGES
Results/Indicators

5.     The restructuring proposes revisions to the Project’s results framework and indicators.
These concern: (i) the PDO-level indicators, in order to ensure consistency with the decisions
made at the Project’s Mid-Term Review3 and implemented thereafter; and (ii) the intermediate
outcome level indicators, along with the changes being introduced to the project components (see
Annex 1 for details).

Components

6.       The changes to the Project components are as follows:

         Component 1: Strengthening of the Legal and Institutional Framework. The
         component originally included activities devoted to: (i) the review of the legal framework
         governing cultural heritage; (ii) the design of new policies and regulations for museum

2
  The case of nearby Bilbao following the Guggenheim museum opening comes to mind. As the largest and best
displayed museum of mosaics in the world, the Bardo is likely to be attractive and have a positive impact on the
local economy.
3
   As planned at appraisal, the first stages of the Project included the preparation of extensive feasibility studies on
the development of six of the country’s most important sites. The cost of these developments, compounded with the
important rise in construction costs, clearly exceeded the budget available at the time of appraisal. It was therefore
decided, upon the selection made by the Ministry of Culture, to focus on four of the most emblematic sites and
implement full-scale projects rather than disperse the funds on the six original sites for less meaningful investments.
The studies pertaining to the sites that were not selected are being used for operations that are implemented directly
by the Ministry of Culture from its own budget or through parallel financing.

                                                           5
        collection, management, and conservation, as well as the preparation of a strategy to
        develop southern sites; (iii) the design and implementation of a reorganization,
        recruitment, and training program at both institutions responsible for conservation,
        management, and promotion of cultural heritage4; and (iv) strengthening the National
        Heritage Institute’s institutional capacity. The main deletion concerns the strategy
        specific to southern sites, which were deferred and programmed outside of the scope of
        the Project at the MTR in order to focus on the four selected sites. Recruitment has been
        directed toward the management and operation of the three rehabilitated museums5 rather
        than to the two institutions responsible for management of the heritage. The training sub-
        component remained unchanged. Institutional capacity has also concentrated on the
        museums rather than on the National Heritage Institute.

        Component 2: Development and Promotion of Cultural Products. The scope of the
        component is to focus on the development of a marketing and communication program to
        promote cultural products. The component originally included: (i) the preparation of a
        comprehensive marketing and communication policy study, including the design of a new
        tariff policy; (ii) carrying out of various training activities; (iii) extensive signage of
        historical sites on the main roads; and (iv) preparation of databases relating to the
        country’s cultural heritage, publications, websites, and promotion events. This overall
        program seemed overambitious at the time of the MTR and the Component was
        streamlined through deletion of the new tariff policy design (albeit this is partly
        addressed in the comprehensive communication and marketing policy study). All other
        sub-components remained unchanged.

        Component 3: Site Development and Management. The scope of the component was
        reduced at the Project Mid-Term Review to focus on four of the six sites identified at
        Project appraisal. The decision was made to concentrate on four of the most emblematic
        sites [Bardo National Museum, Sousse Archeological Museum, Djerba Arts and
        Traditions Museum, and Kairouan Interpretation Center (construction only) and medina]
        rather than implementing limited operations on all of the six sites where detailed
        development pre-feasibility studies had been prepared during the first phase of the
        Project. The decision was justified by: (i) the potential impact of emblematic projects
        such as the Bardo and Sousse museums; and (ii) an increase in construction costs since
        the time of Project appraisal. It was also decided that the developments specific to the
        other sites (Carthage archeological site6, Oudhna archeological site, Sousse medina and
        the museum display for Kairouan) would be financed separately, on the basis of the high
        quality of the pre-feasibility studies: the Agency for Enhancement and Promotion of
        Cultural Heritage (AMVPPC) will implement improvements proposed at Oudhna and
        finance the museum displays at Kairouan Interpretation Center. Improvements specific to
        Carthage Archeological Site will be implemented gradually by the Ministry of Culture
        and the Ministry of Tourism.

4
  Institut National du Patrimoine (National Heritage Institute) and Agence de Mise en Valeur et de Promotion
Culturelle (Cultural Heritage Enhancement and Promotion Agency), respectively responsible for heritage
conservation and management/promotion.
5
  The National Museum of the Bardo, Sousse Archeological Museum, and Djerba Arts and Traditions Museum.
6
   With the exception of some excavation carried out at the beginning of the Project (Malgaa cisterns).

                                                       6
7.    It is expected that the changes introduced at the MTR and reflected above better support
completion of the original PDO by streamlining the components and bringing added focus to the
most emblematic sites.




                                              7
                                                                                ANNEX 1:


                                                        Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                                 TUNISIA- CULTURAL HERITAGE

Project Development Objective (PDO): Support the sustainable management of the country’s cultural heritage with a view to developing cultural tourism.
                                           D=Dropped
                                                                                                    Cumulative Target Values**
                                           C=Continue
                                    Core

      PDO Level Results                    N= New        Unit of                                                                                          Data Source/   Responsibility fo
                                                                       Baseline              2006                         End Target         Frequency
        Indicators*                        R=Revised     Measure                                            Current                                       Methodology     Data Collection
                                                                                                                            Value
Indicator One:                             N            Square       Djerba :200      Djerba : 1,100     Djerba : 1,100   Djerba : 1,100
Exhibition area meeting                                 Meters       Kairouan: 0      Kairouan : 600     Kairouan : 600   Kair : 600
international standards in the 3                                     Sousse : 900     Sousse : 900       Sousse : 1,700   Sousse : 1,700   Annual        AMVPPC.         PIU
museums and 1 interpretation                                         Bardo : 4,500    Bardo : 4 500 2    Bardo : 8, 000   Bardo : 8, 000
center.
Indicator Two:                             N            Number       Djerba : 120     Djerba : 680       Djerba : 680     Djerba : 680     Annual        AMVPPC          PIU
Museum pieces exhibited                                              Kairouan : 0     Kairouan : 0       Kairouan : 0     Kairouan : 0
according to international                                           Sousse : 180     Sousse : 180       Sousse : 100     Sousse : 400
standards in the 3 museums.                                          Bardo : 4,000    Bardo : 4, 000     Bardo : 2, 000   Bardo : 6, 000
                                                                     (None of the
                                                                     above
                                                                     exhibited acc.
                                                                     to intern.
                                                                     standards)
 Indicator Three:                          N            Percentage   57               42 (all)           46               50
Ratio of visits to cultural sites                                    (Non-            70 (Non-           78 (Non-         (80 (Europe      Annual        AMVPPC and      PIU
and museums /                                                        regional         regional           regional         only)                          Ministry of
Number of tourists from abroad.                                      visitors         visitors only)     visitors only)                                  Tourism
                                                                     only)
Previous indicators (PAD):                 D
1. A national cultural heritage
management strategy has been
agreed upon.
2. Increase in the number of
visitors on the sites.
3. Increase in revenues from
ticket and product sales on

                                                                                         8
three of the most visited sites.




                                                                              INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Component One): Strengthening of the Legal and Institutional Framework.
Revised Intermediate Result (Component One): Unchanged
Intermediate Result Indicator        C              Text          Policy      Legal            Achieved       Achieved       Once          Ministry of    PMU
One: A national cultural                                          letter      framework and                                                Culture
heritage management strategy                                                  museum policy
has been agreed upon                                                          completed and
                                                                              endorsed par
                                                                              major
                                                                              stakeholders.
Intermediate Result Indicator        R              Number        0           Djerba : 10      Djerba : 20    Djerba : 20    Annual        INP & AMVPPC   PIU
Two: Key personnel recruited7.                                                Kairouan : 0     Kairouan : 0   Kairouan : 0
                                                                              Sousse : 10      Sousse : 10    Sousse : 30
                                                                              Bardo : 30       Bardo : 30     Bardo : 60
Intermediate Result Indicator        R              0             0           Djerba : 0       Djerba : 0     Djerba : 20    Annual        PIU            PIU
Three: Personnel trained in                                                   Kairouan : 0     Kairouan : 0   Kairouan : 0
management8                                                                   Sousse : 0       Sousse : 0     Sousse : 30
                                                                              Bardo : 0        Bardo : 0      Bardo : 60

Intermediate Result Indicator        R                            0                                                          Annual                       PIU
                                                    Number                    Sousse : 4       Sousse : 12    Sousse : 12                  PIU
Four: Personnel benefiting                                                                                                                 .
from technical training9.                                                     Bardo : 12       Bardo : 20     Bardo : 20

Intermediate Result (Component Two): Development and promotion of cultural products.
Revised Intermediate Result (Component Two): Unchanged




7
  Personnel employed at the key functions of museum management (conservation, management of collections, visitor services, planning and programming,
financial management, etc.).
8
  In the functions specified under footnote 5.
9
  Mainly in mosaics restoration.

                                                                                  9
Intermediate Result indicator      C             Text          0          Comprehensive    Achieved   Achieved   Once     Ministry of   PIU
One: Preparation of marketing                                             promotion/                                      Culture
strategy                                                                  communication
                                                                          strategy
                                                                          completed and
                                                                          agreed upon by
                                                                          stakeholders.
Intermediate Result indicator      N             Number        0          20               300        300        Annual   PIU           PIU
Two: Signs indicating the major
heritage sites on the main roads
Intermediate Result indicator
Three :
 Web sites (Project and            N             Number        0          1                2          4          Annual   PIU           PIU
museums)
Media events related to            N             Number        1          3                2          5          Annual   PIU           PIU
museums
Intermediate Result (Component Three): Site development and management.
Intermediate Result Indicator      R             Number        0          6                6          6          Annual   PIU.          PIU
One: Detailed feasibility
studies
Intermediate Result Indicator      R             Number        0          2                3          4          Annual   PIU           PIU
Two: Construction/renovation
of 3 museums and 1
interpretation center according
to international standards.
Intermediate Result Indicator      N             Number        0          1                1          3          Annual   PIU           PIU
Three: Completion of museum
displays according to
international standards in 3 of
the largest museums
Intermediate Result Indicator      C             Number        1          1                2          2          Annual   PIU           PIU
Four: Number of sites where
associations are involved.




                                                                               10
11
