Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9488
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(LOAN 2113-TUN)
APRIL 19, 1991
Industry and Energy Divisioni
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EO'JIVALENTS
Name of Currency:   Dinar
1982         May 1990
US$1              D 0.59       D 0.89
D                US$1.69       US$1.12
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BDET        Banque de D6veloppement Economique de Tunisie
BTKD        Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de D6veloppement
CETIME      Centre Technique des Industries M6caniques et Electriques
CIDA        Canadian International Development Agency
EMI         Electrical and Mechanical Industry
INNORPI     Institut National de la Normalisation et de la Proprikt6
Industrielle
PERL        Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan
QR          quantitative restrictions
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
STUSID      Soci6t6 Tuniso-S6oudienne de D6veloppement
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



TH woto DM4S.                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL
Waewnon. DC. 204)3
U4SA
os2Le of Dtnev-GmvaJ.
April 19, 199i
MEMONDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIpECTOS AND THE PRESIDET
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Electrical and Mechanical Industry (EMI) Project
(Loan 2113.TUN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Tunisia - Electrical and Mechanical Industry (EMI) Project
(Loan 2113-TUN)" prepared by the Industry and Energy Division, Country
Department II, of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Refional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document msms a usd, dbuibunou and may be ued by rcpsu only is a  e powmce
of Sho Ofciul dub. Its mCOnUss   May not othems be dfimsd wnt Wor  ank as*=monun.



FOR OFFICMiL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(Loan 211.3--TUN)
1 BLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE No.
PREFACE ........................................................                       i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................. ii
?ART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity                  ..1........................... 
Background ...........................................................  1
Project Objectives and Description                            ..                       2
Project Design and Organization                             ..                         3
Project Implementation ..............................................  4
Project Results .....................................................  7
Project Sustainability ..............................................  9
The Bank Performance ................................................ 10
The Borrower's Performance .......................................... 11
Consulting Services ................................................. 11
Project Documentation and Data ...................................... 12
Lessons Learned .................................................... 12
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLES
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ................................ 20
2. Project Timetable ................................................ 21
3. Loan Disbursemernts: Cum4lative Estimated and Actual
Disbursements ............................                                        22
4. Project Cost and Financing ....................................... 23
5. Project Benefits ............................                                      24
6. Use of Bank Resources ............................                                 25
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  BDET's Operations in 1984-88 .............................. 26
ANNEX 2 BDET's Loan Portfolio between December 1984 and
September 1989 ...........................  27
ANNEX 3  BDET's Financial Indicators in 1984-1988 .....                   ............. 28
ANNEX 4  Income Statements 1984-1988 ............................... 29
ANNEX 5  Balance Sheets 1984-1988 ..................................  30
ANNEX 6  Project Cost, Employment,  Investment per Job ....                  .......... 31
ANNEX 7  Project Analysis by Manufacturing Sector .....                   ............. 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(Loan 2113-ThLN)
PREFACE
The Bank approved a US$30.5 million loan in March 1982 to finance
priority projects in Tunisia's electrical and mechanical industries (EMI)
subsector. prepare a study on the effective protection of manufacturing and
design a development strategy for two EMI subsectors. Disbursements of the
loan amounted to US$20.9 million (68.6 %) and there was a cancellation.of
US$9.6 million.
The Bank's Industry and Energy Division, Country Department II, of the
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office prepared Parts I and III
of this Project Completion Report (PCR).
The preparation of Parts I and III of this PCR is based on the Staff
Appraisal and President's reports on the Project, the related Guarantee, Loan
and Project agreements and Bank Project files. The Borrower, the Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) prepared Part II.



ii -
9PSWECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(Loan 2113-TUN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.    By the late 1970's, the production of Tunisia's electrical and
mechanical industries (EMI) sub-sector met only 10X of the local demand for
capital goods, one-third of that for intermediate goods and about half the
demand for consumer goods. Imports of EMI goods had become an increasing
burden on the country's balance of payments. To address this problem, the
Government adopted a development strategy for the sector, under the Sixth Plan
(1982-86), which gave priority to the diversification and expansion of the
capital and intermediate goods subsector (e.g. agricultural and construction
machinery) and of a few selected export-oriented lines of production (e.g.
mechanical and electrical components). Furthermore, the Government recognized
that certain policies hampered the development of the EMI sector (Part I,
para. 5 ). The Government, therefore, formulated policies and institutions to
help the EMI sector improve its performance (Part I, para. 6). The Bank loan
in the EMI sector was part of this overall Government strategy.
Project Objectives
ii.   The basic objective of the    ;ect was to encourage the development of
EMIs, improve the efficiency and - .oductivity of their operations and increase
their production of competitive capital and intermediate goods. At the same
time, the Project contained components to improve the development policy and
institutional framework of the sector and continue strengthening BDET (Banque
de Developpement Economique de Tunisie), the country's development bank. The
Project was to achieve these oojectives through a US$30 million loan to BDET
approved in March 1982 (Part I, para. 9).
Project Implementation
ii.   The loan became effective in December 1982 and there was a slight delay
in effectiveness due to administrative procedures for creating CETIME and
INNORPI. Initially, commitments under the loan developed at a pace consistent
with that forecast during project preparation and appraisal. However, by
mid-1984,commitments of the funds earmarked for EMIs had reached US$8 million
only, while commitments of other funds made available to BDET were US$13
million.
iii. Initially the slowdown in EMI financing seemed to be temporary, caused
by the depressed investment climate in the country (Part I, para. 18).



- iii -
In response to the slowdown in commitments, the Bank extended the commitment
date for the loan proceeds to end-1988. Neither the Bank nor BDET foresaw the
eventual tapering off of demand for investment financing in EMIs. The Bank
actually approved a second line of credit for EMIs in March 1985.   Since the
financial terms attached to this second line were more favorable than those of
the first, BDET requested --and the Bank accepted-- that the uncommitted part
of the first line of credit be cancelled when the second line of credit became
effective. (Part I, Paras. 19 and 20).   The amount cancelled under EMI I was
USS9.6 million equivalent.
Project Results
iv.   By EMI-1 completion, the Bank loan had financed 18 projects of which 10
were new projects and 8 were extensions. Overall, Bank financing amounted to
about 19% of total investment in the related projects (TD 98.4 million). The
projects financed created about 2.060 jobs, of which 34% were in new
enterprises. Taking into account the cancellation of about one-third of the
loan (34.3%, para 20). job creation still fell short of expectations (by
nearly 50%) at the time of project appraisal (Part I, para. 28) The average
cost per job created was significantly higher than expected, even after
accounting for the 1986 devaluation of the TD. This discrepancy may be traced
to the fact that initial estimates of the cost per job created were based on
investments made in the sector that were not representative of investment
opportunities to come. A profile of the projects financed is given in Part I,
paras. 26-29.
v.    The other components of the Project -i.e the institution building of
CETIME and INNORPI and the effective protection study were successful but the
study undertaken by BTKD on the platewurk subsector was never completed
(Part I. paras. 33-36). The Project covenant pertaining to customs tariffs on
EMI products was met. BDET was able to improve the management of its client
arrears problem and achieve better results in negotiating, with Treasury, tue
Government's payments of its losses on account of foreign borrowings, and
adjustments to interest rates. In the latter adjustments, the Bank was able
to play a significant role, using the results of the 1984 Financial Sector
Review.
Project Sustainability
vi.    The general purpose component of the line of credit to BDET
proved highly justified, and was sustainable as well as replicable. The EMI
component proved to be significantly oversized (paras. 28-31); a component
about half the size of that agreed upon would have been more reasonable. The
basis of the overestimation was the assumption made, at the time of project
preparation and appraisal that the demand in later years would be comparable
in magnitude with that existing at the time.
Lessons Learned
vii.        The main lesson the Bank has learned from the Project is to avoid
lines of credit that are too specialized, since temporary or permanent changes
in the demand for credit in a specialized subsector may result in a



- iv -
considerable underutilization of available funds. Instead it would be less
risky to define a broader sub-sector such as export industries or small. and
medium-scale industries. Substantial changes in a specialized industry within
these subsecto i would be less likely to have such a major effect on the
progress of the loan. Concerning Project supervision, the Bank should be
consistent in its monitoring activities, keep its analytical outlook after
project appraisal, note causes of differentials from expectations. maintain
awareness of competing lines of credit and help resolve important issues
related to supervision by financial intermediaries. Moreover, the Bank should
not begin a second operation of the same type in a subsector where commitments
have been significantly below the original forecast, without an in-depth
analysis of the potential underlying causes.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(Loan 2113-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANR'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity:
Project Name: Electrical and Mechanical Industry (EMI)
Loan Number:  2113-TUN
RVP Unit:     EMENA
Country:      Tunisia
Sector:       Industry
Subsector:    Electrical & Mechanical Industry
Background
1.    In the 1970s. the shift to more liberal economic policies in Tunisia,
with greater emphasis on labor intensive and export oriented activities,
provided generous incentives to foreign and domestic private investors. As a
result, during the Fifth Plan (1977-81), manufacturing grew at 10.2% p.a.
(from 6.4% in the 1960s), and accounted for 45% of total new employment (from
33% earlier). The manufacturing sector, however, remained concentrated in two
traditional subsectors: food processing and textiles which, together,
represented about 50% of the sector's total value added and employment and 60%
of its exports by 1980.
2.    Within the manufacturing sector, the engineering (electrical and
mechanical, EMI) industries had experienced a significant development: from
almost nonexistent in the early 1960s, they grew at 18% p.a. in the 190i0s and
13% in the 1970s. Yet, they only contributed 1.9% of GDP, showed a value
added/output ratio of only a'bout 30% and were the least developed subsectors
(about 300 enterprises). By the late 1970s, most of them -about 70%- were
small enterprises (less than 50 workers) and were dominated by a dozen large
public enterprises (more than 100 workers).
3.     While consumer and durable EMI goods were highly protected (with
tariffs of 30-100%), all tariffs on capital and intermediate goods (with the
exception of steel structure and platework) were lower than 16%. On the
latter category of goods, however, generous use was made of import licens'ng
or quantitative restrictions (QRs) to protect local manufacturers. The
subsector's concentration on end-product assembly resulted in a low domestic
VA, poor competitivity of the subsector, and continued significant imports of
EMI goods.
4.    By the late 1970's, the production of the EMI sector met 10% only of the
local demand for capital goods, one-third of that for intermediate goods and



2
about half the demand for consumer goods. Correspondingly, imports of EMI
goods constituted an increasing burden on the country's balance of payments.
To address this problem, a development strategy for the sector was adopted
under the Sixth Plan (1982-86), which gave priority to the diversification and
expansion of the capital and intermediate goods subsector (e.g. agricultural
and construction machinery) and of a few selected export oriented lines of
production (e.g. mechanical and electrical components).
5.    The Government, at the same time, recognizea three facts.  First, that
the development of the EMI settor was hampered by policies -whether protection
or pricing related- that did not foster cost effectiveness, rationalization of
product mix, or higher productivity. Second, that import duties were levied
without an adequate knowledge of the effective protection which resulted for
various lines of production. Third, that the absence of standards and quality
control was very detrimental to the use of domestic inputs, as well as to the
growth of exports.
6.    The Government, therefore, decided (a) to reduce a number of customs
tariffs in order to incite certain EMI enterprises to improve their
efficiency; (b) to undertake a detailed analysis of the effective protection
affecting key subsectors (e.g. foundries and steel platework); and (c) to
create institutions to establish standards and promote quality control (the
Institut National de la Normalisation et de la Propri4t4 Indlistrielle,
INNORPI) and to assist EMI enterprises improve their production processes and
the use of their machinery (the Centre Technique des Industries M6caniques et
Electriques, CETIME).
7.    Since a number of the above decisions were made by the Government
following investigations carried out by, and discussions with the Bank, the
project under review was basically in support of the Government's new approach
and strategy as regards the development of the EMI sector.
Proiect Objectives and Description
8.    The basic objective of the project was to foster the development of
EMIs, to improve their efficiency and productivity, and to increase their
production of competitive capital and intermediate goods. The project also
aimed (a) to improve the development policy and institutional framework of the
sector. and (b) to continue strengthening BDET (Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie), the country's development bank-.
9.    These objectives were to be achieved through a US$30 million loan to
BDET approved in March 1982, subdivided in (i) a credit line of US$28 million,
of which half was to finance subprojects in priority EMI subsectors agreed
upon with the Government, and half to help BDET meet its general resource
needs; and (ii ) a US$2 million loan, to be onlent to the Government to help
establish CETIME and INNORPI to undertake a study on effective protection of
manufacturing, and to design a development strategy for two EMI subsectors.
aL    The sole such institution in Tunisia until 1981, when another two such
institutions were created: Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement
(BTKD) and Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne de Developpement (STUSID), with a
30% capital participation frorv. Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, respectively.



3
Also, under the project, as interim remedies until the above studies were
completed, a series of policy and incentive measures geared to the development
of EMIs were to be taken, in the areas -in particular- of customs tariffs, QRs
and price controls. These measures were to consist essentially, for a period
of 3 years, in maintaining import controls and imposing a maximum price
differential between locally produced and imported RMI products: 18% for all
subsectors and 21% -exceptionally- for steel struc_.e and platework; beyond
this period, import controls were to be gradually lifted.
Proiect DesiAn and OrRanization
10.   In the   te 1970's, the Government recognized the relative importance of
EMI products in Tunisian imports, the development and export potential of this
sector, as well as the detrimental impact of some of its protection policy and
import practices. As a result, the Sixth Plan gave a priority to the
development of this sector (para 4-5). Also, the Government agreed, in the
framework of th s Bank financed project, to take interim measured aiming at
improving the competitivity of the sector, and to undertake studies to design
an appropriate policy framework (para 9).
11.   Of significant importance to help the development of the EMI sector, was
the creation of CETIME and INNORPI. Many industrialists in the sector, aware
of inadequacies in their production processes and the need to improve their
mastering of technologies, welcomed the creation of CETIME to provide them
with technical assistance on a commercial basis. At the same time, some of
them were increasingly sensitive to the need to provide clients with formal
guarantees of quality. These favored the idea of adopting standards and
certification procedures, and they welcomed the creation of INNORPI. Such
interests on the part of industrialists in the sector justified that the
project include a support to the creation of the above two irstitutions, in
the form of financing for technical assistance and purchase of equipment.
12.   By the late 1970's, BDET had had access to Bank financing through seven
earlier lines of credit, and it continued improving its reliability as a
provider of long-term financing for investment purposes. BDET had been
successful in mobilizing domestic as well as foreign resources. It was also
gaining increasing access to the international capital market; as a result,
Bank funds in 1980 represented about 24% of BDET's long-term resources,
compared with 37% in 1974. BDET's capital had increased from TD 3 million in
1971 to TD 10 million in 1978, and was scheduled to be increased to TD 30
million by 1985.
13.   BDET's organization, management and financial situation were
satisfactory. Its portfolio was diversified and sound. Lending to the private
sector rose from 85.2% in 1980 to 96.6% in 1990. Industry accounted for about
60% of these approvals, down from 81% in 1977 as tourism financing experienced
a significant increase in the 1977-80 period. Total assets amounted to about
US$236 million equivalent. Arrears affected 9.7% of total portfolio and debt
rescheduling was kept within reasonable limits. Accumulated provisions for
risk exceeded the auditors' recommendations by nearly 20%. Its debt-equity
ratio remained well below the 8:1 ceiling required by its policy statement and
its commitment to the Bank. BDET's spread on foreign currency borrowing was
secured through a commitment by the Government to maintain this spread at a
level (about 3%) sufficient to provide for appropriate provisions and reserves
and an adequate return on capital. However, as the Government was considering



4
a gradual liberalization of long-term interest rates, it was envisaging -in
pazallel- reducing its financial support to BDET. It was agreed that, under
the prcject, an annual review of the structure of interest rates (to ensure
that they remain positive in real terms), Government support and BDET's access
to lower cost resources would be carried out in consultation with the Bank.
Project Implemencation
14.   The loan was declared effective in December 1982, seven months after
signature. The delay in effectiveness was modest; it was due essentially to
administrative redtape for formally creating CETIME and INNORPI and for
nominating their respective directors.
15.   The effective protection study was undertaken with only minor delays.
Its financing was eventually provided by the Canadian assistance program,
CIDA. (Bank funds initially earmarked for this purpose were made available
for CETIME and INNORPI). The development strategy study on the foundry
subsector was carried out and the platework stu'y was undertaken according to
initial plans.
16.   CETIME and INNORPI promptly appointed the consultants needed to help
design their work program, initiate its implementation and establish their
operational procedures. By the end of its second year of operation, CETIME was
able to start charging fees close to commercial rates, and demand for its
services kept developing steadily. CETIME has reached a finaaLcial situation
close to initial expectations: about 85% of its resources to cover expenses
other than investments now come from the fees that they charge for their
assistance; the remaining 15% still come from the State budget, as CETIME does
not charge new client the cost of the first stage of its assistance, as an
introductory gratuity. INNORPI, considering the peculiar type of public
service that it provides -preparing and edicting standards, and delivering
certifications: after products are tested against these standards- is not
expected to generate revenues beyond 15% of its financial needs. As of mid-
1989, INNORPI was still receiving a limited number of requests for
certification about 16 per year. Howeve , INNORPI organized several seminars
on quality control and management, which improved its revenue generation. The
end-result, however, is that INNORPI has not yet been able to raise
.ignificant revenues: about 8% of its budgetary needs in 1988.
17.   Initially, commitments under the loan developed at a pace consistent
with forecast made during project preparation and appraisal: by October 1983,
the equivalent of about US$6 million had been committed for each of the two
components of the BDET loan. However, by mid-1984, commitments of the funds
earmarked for EMIs had reached US$8 million only, while commitments of other
funds made available to BDET were US$13 million.
18. The slowdown in EMI financing was perceived, at the time, as due
basically to the depressed investment climate in the country, as the end of a
political era was approaching and uncertainties about the country's future
were increasing. It was not seen by the Bank nor by BDET, as a sign of a
tapering off of demand for investment financing in EMIs. To take into account
the above slowdown, the Commitment Date of the operation was postponed by a
year. to end-1988. Had a more careful assessment been made of the sector's
evolution at the time the second line of credit was appraised, sufficient
signs would have been found of the upcoming dryout of demand for iwvestment



S
financing for the sector, as well as of the important difficulties already
affecting part of the sector -i.e. SOFOMECA, STIA, CMT-, and the feasibility
of following up promptly with a second line might have been questioned.
19.   As the earlier use of the line of credit appeared to confirm the
appropriateness of the priority given to EMIs in the Sixth Plan, discussions
were initiated in early 1984, between the Bank, the Government, BDET as well
as BTKD and ST'JSID, on a second line of credit, as a follow-up to that
extended under the project. Preparatory work on the new line started in
mid-1984, leading to an appraisal in the Fall, negotiations in early 1985 and
Board approval in March 1985.
20.   As the financial terms attached to this second line were more favorable
than those of the first (interest rate was 7.75% against 11.6% for EMI), BDET
requested -and the Bank accepted- that the uncommitted part of the first line
of credit be cancelled when the second line of credit becomes effective. The
EMI 2 line of credit became effective in June 1986. The cancellation made
-hen amounted to US$9,6 million equivalent. This amount corresponded to about
US$6.3 million still uncommitted by late 1985 (barely lower than that in late
1984), plus funds -in an amount of US$3.3 million- made available between late
1985 and mid-1986 as a result of cancellations of past commitments, for a good
part, in the EMI sector. At the time, this situation of under-commitment
under the EMI-1 line was explained by BDET, by their wish to keep upcoming EMI
projects for commitment under the new line soon to be established.
21.   Had the 1984 slowdown in EMI commitment been fully understood, the
assessment of the demand for the second EMI operation would have been
definitely different. At the time, however, the slowdown was blamed
essentially on the temporarily depressed investment climate (para 18), and the
ripple effect of the crisis experienced by car assembly in Tunisia.
22.   BDET's financial situation started showing signs of a slight
deterioration in 1984-85, as a result of (a) significant delays in the
Government payments of BDET's losses on account of foreign borrowings, and (b)
increasing client arrears. Because of its cash flow problems, BDET had to
start bcrrowing expensive short-term funds, which led to a reduction of its
profitability.
23.   Delays (of more than a year) in Government payments of BDET's losses on
account of foreign borrowings were due to the Government's budgetary problems
which started developing in the early 1980's. Despite repeated commitments
from the Government to catch up with its arrears, these kept worsening. Only
in 1988, was the Treasury able to make annual payments to BDET (TD 19.2
million) that exceeded BDET's losses in that year (about TD 15 million), thus
beginning to redv_. the Government's cumulated arrears to BDET (TD 34.1
million at end-1987). In the meantime, BDET had to meet the high cost of its
short-term borrowings and reduce the dividends paid to its shareholders. The
Treasury's commitment to pay its past dues to BDET remains genuine, but
forecasts are that, in the foreseeable future, the Government's budgetary
situation should remain somewhat difcicult. It is likely, therefore, that the
Government will need a minimum of three years to meet its backlog of payments
to BDET. In mid-1988, however, in consultation with the Bank under the SAL, a
new system of foreign exchange risk coverage was adopted which disengages the
Government for post-1988 foreign exchange borrowings. Also, interest rate
liberalization -starting with deposit rates- is gradually introduced.



6
24.   Client arrears were due to the economic slowdown referred to in para 18.
By late 1984/early 1985, client arrears had increased to 15.9 million, from TD
8.1 million at end 1982. Of the total amount of arrears, 85-90 was from 22
clients; of these clients' arrears, about half (among which the largest and
longest standing ones) were from about 10 public enterprises (PEs) or
institutional projects. A special action program was developed by BDET in
early 1985 to address its client arrears problem; it involved adjusting its
organization, responsibility assignment, procedures and monitoring for
supervisinn. The action program was promptly put into effect in mid-1985.
Within the subsequent 18 months, its effects were very favorable, and major
arrears from private clientsv started decreasing, a number of cases having
led to restructuring (or liquidation) of the enterprise, or transfer to formal
litigation procedures. Attempts to reduce arrears from PEs or institutional
projects, however, had very limited results, as payments of arrears was -once
more- dependent on the Government's budgetary situation (para 23). The
gradual reduction of PE arrears should become significant in the near future,
as the Government is now addressing the general problem of PEs restructuring,
privatization and/or liquidation, with the assistance of the Bank, under the
PERL operation. (As of June 30, 1989, client arrears were slightly below
rTD 49.4 million] the level reached on June 30, 1988 tTD 51.2 million] and
decreased further to TD 38.1 million on December 31, 1989. BDET new
management was of the opinion that this situation would improve by the later
part of the year, yet was planning to request that the Government take up
inter alia the arrears from PEs and institutional projects).
25.      In 1988, BDET's overall situation began recovering from the
mid-1980's crisis. In the process of overcoming that crisis, however, BDET
management grew very cautious about financing PEs. as well as confident in its
ability to find solutions with clients in difficulty. Because of its
experience with Government arrears, BDET management has also become a strong
supporter of financial liberalism, favorable to: (a) leaving intermediaries
responsible for mobilizing their resources where they find it feasible,
assuming the risk -including foreign exchange related- associated with it and
adapting their lending terms accordingly; and (b) gradually reducing the
distinction between commercial and investment banks.
BDET's financial statements, and financial performance in 1988-89
26.   In 1989, despite a still somewhat sluggish economic climate in the
country, BDET's financial position kept improving: results would suggest that
BDET's net profit/equity ratio would have reached 13.3% (compared with 6.5X in
1988) and its net profit would have reached TD 5.3 million (compared with TD
2.5 million the year before). This was achieved essentially because of: (a)
BDET's continued concern (maintained by the new management) for its overall
In the meantime, however, arrears from other clients -mostly medium
sized- increased significantly, offsetting the gain achieved on the
major arrears. This significant increase in new arrears stemmed from
the foreign currency controls instituted by the Government from mid-1985
to late 1986 to overcome its foreign exchange shortage, the effect of
which was to hamper entreprises -especially new ones- in their purchase
of impor-ed equipment or raw materials, and thus to prevent them from
operating as planned.



7
arrears situation, and sustained efforts to control it; (b) a significant
increase in the tourism sector, which made it possible for important clients
of BDET's to resume payments on their loan (c) higher interest rates and; (d)
important profits from sales of portfolio.
Auditing Performance
27.   BDET has its accounts audited annually.  Commonly, audit reports reach
the Bank by end of June, at the earliest; this is due to the fact that banks
in Tunisia close definitely theiz accounts in March only, then call their
auditors. This is a local practice that will continue in the foreseeable
future. Audit reports have been steadily good, rather detailed and
compr:'.  fIve;  which probably follows in part, at least, from the request
made b-   e Bank about four years ago that auditors be asked to review BDET's
arrep. re gtreater detail.
28.   By the time the EMI-1 project was completed. 18 projects (of which 8 in
the EMI sector) had been financed through the Bank line of credit. Of these
18 projects, 10 were new projects (of which 5 in the EMI sector), and 8 were
extensions. Overall Bank financing amounted to about 19% of total investment
(TD 98.4 million). About 76% of Bank financing went to new projets.
Approximately 2,060 jobs were created, of which 1,360 -or 34%- in new
enterprises. Taking into account the cancellation of about one-third of the
loan (34.3%. para 20), this job creation still fell short -by nearly 50%- of
expectations at the time of project appraisal. The average cost per job
created amounted to 60,800 in new enterprises, and TD 22,600 in extension
projects; significantly more than expectations, even after account of the 1986
devaluation of the TD. This discrepancy can be traced to the fact that
initial estimates of the cost per job created was based on investments made
earlier in the sector that proved to be un-representative of investment
opportunities to come.
29.   The final allocation of Bank financing was distributed among sectors as
follows: EMI, 32.7%; rubber and chemical products, Z5.4%; building materials,
ceramics and glass, 18.7%; agroindustry, 10.4%; tex.tile and leather. 7.7%;
paper and printing, 5.1%.
30.   As regards the general purpose component of the loan to BDET, the
project was a success.
31.   As regards the EMI component, only about half of the expected demand
materialized. The result is that the expansion expected -as a benefit of the
project- of the country's industrial base in the sector was not achieved to
the extent originally envisioned. Most EMI projects financed through the Bank
line of credit had an export orientatior., and imports of EMI goods did not
decrease significantly: with the ultimate result of a limited improvement of
the balance of payments situation attached to the sector. (As of mid-1989,
the EMI sector as a whole had evolved further, with problems affecting in a
un-remediable manner three large enterprises -SOFOMECA, STIA and CMT- which
eventually had to close).



B
Share of EMG Sector in meeting the demand for capital, intermediate and
consumer goods. and performance of the sector as regards lmport substitution
32.   By a cascade effect, the foundry subsector (e.g. SOFOMECA) was badly
affected by the problems encountered by the local production of capital goods
(e.g. car engines by Complexe MHcanique de Tunisie), which itself had lost a
major client (i.e. STIA. in car assembly) that had collapsed. In these lines
of production, local integration (and concomitantly import substitution)
failed. In productions of intermediate and consumer goods, results came much
closer to expectations, even if for a period of about two years. they
suffered--by a ripple effect--from the problems mentioned above affecting
another EMI subsector. At present, a number of productions are developing
steadily; in particular, under subcontracting arrangements with foreign
manufacturers--such as bundles of electric wire for automobiles, car
radiators, etc. Also, productions of final products, such as small diesel
engines, electric motors, etc. are multiplying; most of the time, with a
significant export orientation. For consumer goods, in particular, import
substitution was largely achieved.
33.   The initial estimate of the demand for investment financing was too
optimistic. There appears to be three causes for this oversight. First, the
estimate made at the time of preparation and appraisal should have been more
conservative; especially regarding the outer years. considering that the
sector was still in its early stage of development.
34.   Second, the estimate was made after detailed investigations of the
structure of existing EMI enterprises and imports, which revealed a number of~
import substitution opportunities and -possibly- attracted excessive interest:
from potential investors. Also, the estimate was made after (a) BDET had
designed a development strategy for the EMI sector, which had led to the
identification of EMI activities (inter alia foundries and electric motors)
expected to have a significant "pull" effect on the rest of the sector; and
(b) BDET had began seeking -and had found- investors willing to realize some
of its project ideas. The analysis of the projects effectively realized shows
that (i) investors eventually trusted their own judgement and market
assessment more than those of BDET cadres; and (ii) the most successful EMI
projects proved to be export oriented and involving some technical/commercial
partnership with foreign firms.
35.   Third, the above investigations were carried out at a time where
Tunisian investors had gathered significant experience in a diversified range
of productions and might have developed an excessive confidence in their
ability to enter new activities, to master new technologies and to
successfully compete with imports. Also, the initial estimate appears to have
ignored that a significant fraction of Tunisian investors are, above all,
businessmen; and only rarely, fully developed industrialists -which the EMI
sector calls for more than most other industrial sectors. Therefore,
investments in the EMI sector -it should have been expected- would be realized
inasmuch as competing opportunities -in terms either of returns, or lesser
technical, commercial/marketing difficulties- remained modest. EMIs proved to
be a challenging sector, both technically and marketwise. Investors, as a
result, appear to have promptly gone back to more customary activities such as
textiles, agroindustry and tourism.



9
36.   The other undertakings under the project -i.e the institution building
of CETIME and INNORPI and the carrying out of the protection study- were
successful. As indicated earlier (para 16), CETIME has established its
credibility, is called regularly by EMI enterprises for technical advice and
assistance, and is able to charge realistic fees. INNORPI has produced more
than 600 norms, has delivered nearly forty certifications and is expanding its
activities in the area of promoting quality control, management and
monitoring.
37.   The development si-rategy study on foundries was completed and its
results discussed with the Bank. Most qualifications made at the time were
widely confirmed in the last two years by the difficulties faced by this
subsector, which were fully exemplified by the collapse of SOFOMECA.
38.   The study undertaken by BTKD on the platework subsector was never
completed. Following a swift beginning, methodological and technical
difficulties soon began hampering its execution.  This was compoinded by the
unfavorable evolution of that branch of the sector, which justified that the
study be suspended.
39.   The effective protection study, after a slow start due to delays in the
mobilization of foreign (Canadian) experts, developed in a satisfactory
manner'. The results of the study were extensively used in the design of
the Government's later decisions pertaining to the liberalization of the
economy -in particular, those related to the reduction and alinement of
customs tariffs-, and in the preparation of the Bank ITPA loan to support this
liberalization program.
Project Sustainabili
40.   The general purpose component of the line of credit to BDET proved
highly Justified, and was sustainable as well as replicable.
41.   The EMI component proved to be significantly oversized (para 30-34); a
component about half the size of that agreed upon would have been more
reasonable. This overshooting stems essentially from the assumption made at
the time of project preparation and appraisal that the demand in later years
would be comparable in magnitude with that existing at the time.
Certainly in its most critical phase where the methodology was to be
tested and the essential results were to be developed and discussed.
Later on, responsibility to duplicate the study on other sectors was
passed from the IEQ (Institut d'Etudes Quantitatives) to the CNEI
(Centre National des Etudes Industrielles), which proved to be a major
error, as CNEI has serious difficulties assembling teams of competent,
experienced econo: 'sts to continue the work started by the IEQ.



10
42.   The economic covenant pertaining to customs tariffs on EMI products was
met.  Also, further strengthening of BDET was achievedP as BDET was able
(a) to improve the management of its client arrears problem; as well as (b) to
achieve better results in negotiating with Treasury the Government's payments
of its losses on account of foreign borrowings, and adjustments to interest
rates. In the latter adjustments, the Bank was able to play a significant
role, using the results of the Financial Sector review carried out in 1984.
43.   One objective of the project was to address for the first time in
Tunisia, a specific industrial branch, EMIs, and to focus our support to
development banking on subsector investment and policies. This approach was
one among several attempted by the Bank at the time, to explicitly link its
assistance with the resolution of economic policy issues; in the case of
Tunisia, the attempt aimed at trade policies. An overall review of this
approach would be needed to pass a judgement on its success. In the case of
this project, results were mixed: creating CETIME and INNORPI was a success,
while the development of EMIs fell short of expectations.
44.   The extension of a second EMI line of credit proved premature. Had it
been appraised a few months later, clear signs then would have been available
of the limits of the demand for investment financing in the sector. In early
1989, a significant fraction of this second line hiad to be cancelled, after it
was recognized that the demand was modest and coul.d be met through other
existing lines of credit.
The Bank Performance
45.   During the project implementation period, the Bank contributed
significantly to the improvement of the sector policy framework, and to the
strengthening of the implementing agency, BDET. The Bank participated in the
design of the ITPA program and extended a loan to support it. The Bank also
carried out a review of the financial sector and, as a follow-up, participated
in the regular review of the country's interest rate structure. In parallel,
the Bank undertook a comprehensive review of BDET's organization and
operational procedures, which led to a number of recommendations, most of
which were adopted and promptly put into effect by BDET's management.
46.   In 1985 and 1986. after the negotiation of the EMI-2 operation, the Bank
fell short on the supervision of the operation. This prevented the
confirmation of the early signs of a shortfall in demand for investment
financing for the EMI sector and, as a result, the prompt introduction of the
adjustments that were called for. Steadier supervision and proper updating of
sector work would have certainly permitted to reduce the misappreciation that
was at the base of the launching of the second line of credit. (This second
line itself was not subjected to sufficient supervision, which made it
The question of feasibility of investing trough BDET was not at the
center of this operation. This became an issue in 1984 only, as a
result -in part- of the Financial Sector study which w&s carried out
that year. This then became a more central question for the Bank
subsequent lines of credit. This issue will be a main focus of the PCRs
of these operations when they fall due.



11
possible for problems affecting its utilization to last longer than was
warranted).
The Borrower's Performance
47.   BDET failed to develop !n time a full awareness of the fragility of the
demand for investment financing for the EMI sectorW.
48.   Otherwise, BDET's performance was basically satisfactory.  When the loan
was made in 1982, BDET's supervision was still weak, in spite of the Bank's
urging. With the deterioration of the economic environment, BDET's portfolio
deteriorated significantly. By 1985, BDET management was more receptive to
the Bank's concern on the worsening arrears situation and was prompt to react
in a tangible manner on this issue (para 24). As regards Government arrears,
BDET management was able, all along, ' secure from Treasury the maximum
payments that the State could afford .o meet its commitments to BDET. BDET
increased its capital to TD 30 million, mobilized a larger fraction of its
resources through international borrowings (from BEI, DEG, France, Italy, etc)
and through issuance of bonds on the local market. The importance of the
private sector in BDET's portfolio kept increasing regularly. BDET
participated in two privatization operations and has now adopted
systematically the practice of arranging with its clients the buybacks of its
participation in their enterprise. a.lso, BDET management has established a
new strategy to cope with the new economic and institutional context in which
BDET has now to operate. Basically. BDET management has clearly decided that,
for the years to come, BDET's line of conduct as regards lending should
consist of the following: (i) to limit its exposure to new operations with
PEs only to the most viable ones; (ii) to give priority to export-oriented
projects; and (iii ) to intensify its activities in the tourism sector,
focussing, however, on medium size operations. These objectives are in line
with the best opportunities available in Tunisia to development finance
institutions.
Consulting Services
49.   Such services were used for technical purposes by CETIME and INNORPI.
The consultants hired were LGV and CERLAB/AFNOR, respectively; both from
France. Their performance has been most satisfactory, and both CETIME and
INNORPI were keen under the EMI-2 operation to obtain financing for the
extension of their services.
This might have been due to the significant efforts that BDET had made
identifying an appropriate way to develop the country's capabilities in
that sector (para. 31), and the resulting difficulties that BDET then
had acknowledging that investors were not fully convinced of the
feasibility to enter this sector.



12
Project Dgcumentation-and Data
50.   The data base for this project is basically satisfactory.  From late
1984/early 1985 on, the data base is fundamentally the same as that of the
EMI-2 operation, as work on each of these two projects was carried out
jointly.
Lessons Learned
51.   The main lesson the Bank has learned from the Project is to avoid lines
of credit that are too specialized, since temporary or permanent changes in
the demand for credit in a specialized subsector may result in a considerable
under-utilization of available funds. Instead it would be less risky to define
a broader sub-sector such as export industries cr small and medium-scale
industries. Substantial changes in a specialized industry within these
subsectors would be less likely to have such a major effect on the progress of
the loan. Concerning Project supervision, the Bank should be consistent in
its monitoring activities, keep its analytical outlook after project
appraisal, note causes of differentials from expectations, maintain awareness
of competing lines of credit and help resolve important issues related to
supervision by financial intermediaries. Moreover, the Bank should not begin
a second operation of the same type in a subsector where commitments have been
significantly below the original forecast, without an in-depth analysis of the
potential underlying causes.



I 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(Loan 2113-TUN)
PART II: PROJECT REEW.- FROM BORROWRERS PERSPECTIVE
1.    Except for the portion of the loan onlent to the Government (US$2
million)y. Loan 2113-TUN has been used up to 66.4%; it financed 19
subprojects with a total investment cost of TD 98.4m. (US$127m.) and helped
create 2.057 jobs. There were 37 subloans for these projects with an average
maturity of IO years. including 2 years of grace.
2.    The objectives of the loan have been broadly met:
-   over 3/4 of the amount used of the loan contributed to the financing
of pzicects outside Greater Tunis;
-   75.7% of the financing concerned new projects;
-   the financing of priority sectors was distributed as follows: EMI
projects which had first priority under loan, received 32,9% of the
financing. Next are the rubber industry (25.4%) construction
materials (18.7%) and agro-industries (10.4%) (Annex 7 gives the
sectoral breakdown of subprojects).
3.    The average cost of jobs created is relatively high at TD 47,800.
However, excluding STIP and COTREL which are capital intensive, the average
cost per job created falls to TD 28,500.
BDET EVOLUTION DURING THE 1982-1987 PERIOD
4.    In order to increase more significantly its contribution to the
objectives of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-1985), BDET increased its
equity and its borrowed resources.
Equity:  BDET share capital which was TD 10 m., at end-I981 was increased to
TD 20 m. in 1982 and TD 30 m. in 1984. In parallel, BDET made a special
effort to promote foreign investment in Tunisia from industrial enterprises or
financial institutions, as follows:
61    The purpose of this component was to finance the cost of technical
assistance for INNORPI as well as the study of effective protection in
the manufacturing sector.



14
- two participation agreements: first, with the Islamic
Development Bank (ID Sm.) and, more recently, with the
European Investment Bank (ECU 3m);
- joint venture between 4'oreign firms with technical know-how and BDET
projects.
Borrowings: During the 1982-1987 period, the outstanding amount of BDET
resources more than doubled: from TD 93.3m in 1982 to TD 219.6m in 1987. This
growth was characterized by:
- resource diversification: IBRD's share of BDET resources fell from
20.4Xin 1982 to 9X in 1987. This was offset by borrowings on the
international capital markets, which were very small until 1982 but
represented nearly half of the total resources at the end of 1987, as
well as by borrowings from institutional lenders (EIB. DEG, Italian
credits, etc.);
- maximization of domestic borrowings: important progress was
achieved in issuing bonds on the local market; in 1987, these
bonds represented more than one-third of resources used during that
year, ie. TD 14.2m.
BDET's Policy: BDET's Statutes and General Policy Statement remained
unchanged.
Staff: BDET has currently a qualified staff of 215 including 50 officers
comprising 15 engineers, 25 economists and financial analysts,
and I0 legal staff.
Industrial Projects Promotion: There are 48 projects identified; 29 are
already in operation, and 11 under construction.
5.    BDET's Operations between 1982 and 1987 (Annexes I and 2):  During the
period under review, Tunisia's banking system was characterized by the
creation of new development banks. This event placed greater competitive
pressure on BDET. It also provided the opportunity for cofinancing new
projects, particularly in tourism and in large industrial projects.
a. Approvals:
During the 1982-87 period, credit approvals reached TD 42.7 m. per year
on average. However, these approvals decreased steadily between 1985 and 1987
due to:
- the conscious decision in 1985 and 1986 to limit approvals in the
tourism sector;
- the economic difficulties faced by the industrial sector, stemming frow
a decrease in domestic demand and the important increase in project
costs resulting from the davaluation of the dlnar.



15
During the 1982-1987 period, the distribution of approvals was the
following (see annex 6b):
- new protJcts were predominant, representing 2/3 of the approvals;
- 701 of approvals were for projects outside the Greater Tunis area;
- the private sector remained the principal beneficiary of BDET's
financing: its share of total financing was 89.51;
- equity parti^ipations represented 6.4% of total financing.
With respect to sectoral distribution, three-fourths of BDET's
approvals were made to manufacturing. EMI led all other manufacturing
branches, thanks to BDET's promotion efforts. As a result, on average, EMI
annual approvals represented 20% of total approvals during the 1982-85 period.
L L. were followed, in decreasing order of importance, by chemicals and
rubber. agro-industries and construction materials which represented
respectively 16%. 13.7% and 11% of total approvals.
Recent developments: Because of the serious difficulties in the EHI
sector (decrease of domestic demand, important foreign exchange losses),
investment in this sector has fallen down. Approvals fell from TD 8.1m. in
1986 to TD 0.8m in 1987. At present, the priority is to consolidate and
rehabilitate existing projects. It is likely that a revival of industrial
investment will require some time.
On the other hand, the demand in the tourism sector is very strong.
Approvals in this sector have grown to about TD 46m. in 1986, and are expected
to remain at a high level in 1989.
b. Commitments and Disbursements:
Because of the normal lag between approvals, commitments and
disbursements, the later two have decreased since 1985, but at a slower rste
than the decrease in approvals.
6.    Loan and participation portfolio.  Over the 1982-87 period, BDET's
outstanding loan and participation portfolios have increased at very similar
rates: 11.5 and 11.0% p.a., respectively. The loan portfolio increased from
TD 139.4 million to TD 239.8 million; the participation portfolio grew from TD
18.0 million to TD 30.3 million. The ratio between the portfolios remained at
about 1:10.
To improve the revolving of its participation portfolio, BDET now
increasingly requires that its privpte partners sign buyback agreements.
As of late 1988, such agreements concerned a total of TD 4.9 million, of
which TD 2.9 million were guaranteed by drafts backed by the banks of BDET's
investment partners. Also, worth mentioning is tihe privatization of two
public enterprises which was undertaken in 1987 and concluded in 1988.



16
Provisions are equivalent to 4% of BDET's loan and participation
portfolios.
7.    Repayments and financial profitability
Mi Arrears
Client arrears have worsened since 1984. This was due, first, to
problems encountered by several large projects, and second, to the difficult
economic climate that the country experienced in the last few years. These
arrears have evolved as follows:
1982    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
in TD million-----
A - Loan portfolio              139.4   168.7  194.2  210.6  227.6  239.8
B - Total arrears                8.1      9.5   15.9   21.1   32.9   38.4
C - Portfolio affected
by arrears                 36.0    31.0   58.6   63.9   74.5   94.6
B/A (X)                          5.8      5.6    8.2   10.0   14.4   16.0
C/A (%)                         25.8    18.4   30.2   30.3   32.7   39.4
As of end-1987, the structure of these arrears was the following:
Number               Arrears
(in TD thousand)               of clients  in TD thousand  as X  f total
Larger than 200                     18            12,875             33.5
Between 100 and 200                 16             2.129              5.5
Between 50 and 100                  15             1,156                     3.0
Between 20 and 50                   10               316                     0.8
Smaller than 20                    26                168                     0.4
Sub-total                    85            16,644              43.3
in litigation                     123             21.759             56.7
Total                       208            38,403              00.0
The above data shows that, of all arrears, 90% are from clients now in
litigation (from which BDET holds reliable guarantees) and from 18 clients
with arrears larger than TD 200,000. Among the latter, 10 are public
enterprise whose arrears amount to about TD 9 million.
With the exception of a few projects in the tourism sectory,
almost all arrears are from industrial projects.
zz    In particular, Compagnie Touristique Arabe and Societe Arabe de
Tourisme.



17
BDET has strengthened its Legal Department to handle the increasing
number of dossiers in litigation. BDET has also significantly
improved iti 1.roject supervision and technical assistance activities to be
more effective in its search of solutions for projects experiencing
difficulties, and in its support to tha implementation of these solutions.
(ii) Profitability
The structure of BDET's borrowings has changed very substantially
since 1982, as shown below:
1982-                    1987
Amount    Share        Amount    Share
(TD million) (X)       (TD million) (X)
- Local resources                    14.7     16.2          34.3      15.6
- Borrowings from bilateral or
multilateral sources            65.6      72.4          85.0     38.7
- Borrowings on the internal
capital market                   10.3     11.4         100.3     45.7
TOTAL                           90.6    100.0          219.6    100.0
Borrowings on the international capital market has now become BDET's
main source of funds, which has resulted in an increase of the cost of its
resources. The average interest rate on borrowingsg has increased from
about 7% in 1981 to 8.4% in 1987. However, this cost increase has been
mitigated by the fact that BDET was able to obtain favorable terms on its
borrowings:
(a) for the US$60 million F.R.N. loan contracted in December 1983,
the spread applied to BDET was only 0.25%; and
(b) for the Y10 million syndicated loan - of which, half is at
variable rate - contracted from the Bank of Tokyo in 1985, the spread (for
the variable part of the loan) was 0.2% above the long-term prime rate.
BDET also made substantial progress in issuing bonds on the
domestic market, as shown by the amounts of funds mobilized in this manner:
1982      1983      1984     1985      1986     1987*
2,200     2,125    3,950      4,150    7,580    9,500
In addition to this bond issue, another one was made in late 1987, in an
amount of TD 4.7 million, referred to as the "1988 Issue".
Excluding any account of exchange rate variations.



18
To improve its margin, and consistent with the general increase of
interest rates in Tunisia, BDET raised its rates in September 1982, then
in June 1985, to reach the following valuesv.
for SMIs                             12.0%
for large industrial projects        12.5%
for tourism                          13.0%
for "non resident" industries        14.0%
Moreover, BDET charges a management fee of 1% flat, as well as a
commitment fee of 1%.
Also, BDET has kept monitoring closely its administrativ'e costs, which
amounted in 1987 to 0.9% only of its average assets, and 1.3% of its average
net portfolio.
These actions, combined with a relative decline of interest rates on
international markets since 1985, had made it possible for BDET to gradually
improve its profit margin.
This improvement, however, was obliterated by losses on foreign
exchange (FX) borrowings, which were worsened by the devaluation of the Dinar.
These losses are to be covered by the FX Fund established for this
purpose-o, but ressources available to the Fund proved insufficient and only
part of BDET losses could actually be covered. The following table presents
BDET losses on account of foreign borrowings, payments made to BDET to cover
these losses, and the year-end backlog of payments due.
BDET foreign        Payments               Backlog of
exch. losses      made to BDET        payments due to BDET
----- in the year       ----       ---at year-end-
---- ----------------in TD '000  ---------------------
1982             3,381              1,552                 4,235
1983            10,698              2,220                 12.713
1984             8,378              2,100                 18,991
1985            11,755                --                 30,746
1986            11,312             10,650                31,408
1987            15,812             13,150                34,070
Kz    Interests are paid every semester, in advance.
10,   For losses on borrowings contracted after the creation of the Fund.
Losses incurred on borrowings contracted before that date, are covered
by the Treasury.



19
Delays in the payments to BDET have resulted in important
additional financial costs to BDET, as BDET had to contract expensive
short-term loans to cover the gap caused by the above delays. In 1987,
these financial costs amounted to TD 3 million.
Thus compensation payments to BDET - TD 3.875 million in 1986 , and
TD 4.54 in 1987 - only cover the additional financial costs incurred by BDET,
plus part of BDET losses on account of arrears from public enterprises
It should be mentioned, however. that significant improvements in the payments
to BDET have incurred recently, with TD 19.15 million paid in 1988.
As BDET has stopped recording the interests due on these loans.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRY (EMI) PROJECT
(Loan 2113-tUN)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMTION
Ogiat.e ~hfltI ZAflI ana'e1    !eIt
a_  tee gank   13 dflaf21- :    ee of
L:asncreazt r.ttO               P,,,@@,                 Ao.rov.i 4:t
:.  nGstry IV            Moden   *nr  .toane xS                     Couonotee
(SOFONECA)         foun@ ry otant   -
.  bxort Industry       Fgnjnce v&sole ExaOri            iSIs      Next suOgv
orojects                                   miss. 06/69
>. _!t1-2                :tnee vilole  lreets             IglS       Net sewav
;n t,,e EIN  setor                         "ass. a/sie
..  isnr2               rinence viable StI                966      Next sugarv
projects                                   "Ci. 65/69



21
TaoL. :
OatsOt.Oe
Item                     Plannea          Rovtsod         Actual
.  Project Briet                   07/21X81             -          67/21/61
O.oarto,nt Apcroval            07/28/1I                        07/28J/1
3.  felflow Cover                   10/30/S1            -          11/13/01
4 N. gotiactions                    12/J7/81            -          02/01/02
S.  Bouar  Aagrov4L                02/6sq/8Z            -           3/2S/82
S.  Sgniang ODat                   03/00/82             -          @5/14/62
7.  Effecstve Oate                 37/31/92         69/36/82       12/13/82
S.  Closing Oate                    !2/3?/87        12/31/88       12/31/07
S.  Goan Cooiaet on Oat.           66/30/58         66/30/69       06/36/86



22
si3
Aocrwaasl Este qa:e  83/8Z)                                USS ZO 500.aoo.oo
Actual (06/98)                                            uss Ze0.l6,256.48
Cancelled  a6/86)!                                          US$ 9,S53,739.5Z
Actual aas oa cestage of Estimate                                      68.61
"Ite of FLnai C1sOursement                                          U6/09/S 8
I/  Following the effectivene*s of the EMI-Z Ilne of creaat in June 19S6.



23
7ebL* 4
arnotaet Csa   igM  Fe naanei
Source                 Planned          Actual          Percentago
- - (USS Rillion) - -
30.50           .20.92              68.6
- Line of Crecit              '3.00            19.42              8.8
- T.A.                         2.00             2.66             166.0
(front-enG fee*             (0.50)           (0.50)
14.00            9.04               64.6.
Equity ana al                     168.00          100.12               59.6
Ooverrment (for T.A.)              S.60             5.00 S0.0
Total                  217.56           135.08               62.1



24
Project Benefits
Aoprauakl       Cosng Oatg
I,   Nu,Dor of proj*cts             30               18
2.   *Iumoor of joos crestog    _6l,000            A,067
3.   rotal &nveatent              ;10.0             127.6
USS "tithon)



25
~able o 
uge gf. IA1k clesourem
A -   sllss
Stage of                                                        J./
Project       ionth/   Numoer of   Cays Ln   Spoecalisation    Perforoance
Cycle          Year      Persons       Field      Reoresented       Rating Status
A. Through AvpraIs3l
I.      Me/l          Z                          2/4            n.
2.     W6/Vi          3          2a            2/4S/            n.-.
3.     09/91          2                          2/4
8. Suoervision
1.     04/82          1           2                2
10/82         1           2                2
3.     0S/83          2           t               /SI
4.     04/84          1           5                2                1
S.     09/84          3           S            2/4/S                I
S.      12/84         3           4            2/4/9                1
7.      12/8s         2          is              2/S                2
S.     0S/87          2          12              21S                2
S.     02/88          I           2                2                3
I0.     06/88          3           a           2/4/S                 3
.1.1  1. Oivision Chief                ,/   I. litnor Problems
2. Project Officer                      2. Mloderate Proolems
3. Loan Officer                         3. Major Problems
4. Financial Analyst                    4. Failure
5. Industrial Engineer
- iStaf nfmut (staff weeks)
uo to
Boara approv.    Superv.        Total
Total !iout:                   177.9    -       3?.:       2:5.1
of whicn
Oivision Staff - Cons.:        15.8             30.1       18S.7
Others:                         22.3              .I 16.4



26
BDET's OPERATIONS IN 1984-88
(D million)
1984        122                       198Z         19881986
RLrect Loan
Approvals               46.3         40.4         30.6        25.3         60.9
Commitments             41.9         31.2         30.2        22.6         23.3
Disbursements           43.3         37.6         34.1        36.8         29.2
Eauitv Investments
Approvals                1.7          4.3          1.9         2.5          7.4



BDET's LOAN PORTFOLIO BETWEEN DECEMBFE 1984 AND SEPT. 1989
(D million)
(As of end of period)          1984      1985       i986      1987       1988       30.9,99 (i)   30.9.89 (ii)
Loans outstanding              189.0*    205.2*    2 22.5*    235.0*    242.8*      245.4*         257.8*
Loans Affected by Arrears       48.9      50.1       53.4       69.8      58.4       105.5         112.6
Arrears over 3 Months           11.8       16.1      24.7       30.8      31.8        47.2          46.7
Loans Affected/Loans (X)        25.9      24.4       24.0       29.7      24.1       43.0           43.7
Arrears/Loans (X)                8.4      10.3       14.8       16.3      15.8        19.2          18.1
Prov. for Losses/Loans (%)       3.6       3.8        3.6       3.9        4.5        4.0            4.6
Rescheduling of Arrears
Write Offs
* FOPRODI not included          5.2        5.4       5.1        4.8       4.3         4.6            4.8
(1)  The September 30. 1989 situation differs front that in previous years
because of (i) changes in schedule of repayments which were introduced in the
later part of the year, and (ii) the significant magnitude of repayments                                                  -
falling due in the last quarter.
N



28
EDET's FINANIAL INDICATORS IN 1984:,8
(D million)
(As of end of period)
Loans Outstanding        194.2        210.6        227.6       239.8        247.1
Equity Investments        25.8         28.5         28.7         30.4        26.5
Net Operating Profit       3.5          3.7          4.0          3.3         3.9
(before provisions
and taxes)              (1.0)        (1.0)        (1.2)       (1.4)        (1.4)
Net Profit                 2.5          2.7          2.8          1.9         2.5
Net Profit/Equity (X)      8.93         6.92         7.0          5.01        6.53
Current Ratio
Long-Term Debt/Equity      4.65         4.81         4.73        5.34         5.34



29 
(0 mt1t|4n)
LIlA        L2AAiE      L282         1988
rnterlst tnct
Loans                                             16,8         19,'        20,8        22.2          23.5
Investments b Oe0ostts                             0,7          0,9         0.6         1,6           2.5
ra&I Interest  Incom                            L7,5        20.1         21,4        ?18           26
!ntereAL Ex6esea                                      18.6         17,6        19.2        22,-           2.4
net Interest otff. InCOme                             (1,1)         2.5         2,2         1.8           3.6
Otvydends Income                                       0.3          0.3         0,3         0.2           0,3
Comissions & Other Income                              6,4          3.5         4,7         5             3,S
Not ODuratIng IaQm                                     5,6          6,3         7.2         7.-           7,3
Qoeratflno enses:
Staffing                                               1,2          1,3         1,4         1,5           1,5
Oeprectation                                           0,4          0.5         0.6         0.5           0,6
AmerttZatlon Deferrea Charges
Other AdMinistrative Expenses                          0,5          0,8         1,3         1,7           1.3
IL     UOrI'd LIAU n A   Ae_lQ e                2.1           2,6         33,7                      3.4
Net OQOratlng Profit                                   3.5                                  3. 3          3.9
Less:   Provisions                                     0,6          0,6         0,6         0,6           1,0
Extraordinary Profits
TA&xabl  Prgftts                                       2,9          3,1         3,4         2,7           2,9
Less:   Income Tax                                     0,4          0.4         0,6         0.8           0,4
Mgt Prqflts                             _~~~~~2,L5    2                       1.9
At % of Average Net Assets                           237,6        275,5       306,1       330,3         347,6
Int3rest tncoTw                                    7,37         7,30        6,99        7,21          7,48
Intirest expenses                                  7,83         6,39        6,27        6,66          6,44
Net Operating  tncome                              2,36         2,29        2.35        2,12          2,1
Ope*ttng expOnses                                  0,88         0,94         1,08        1,12         0,98
Proviasions                                        0,25         0,22        0,20        0,18          0.29
Prc'tt before tax                                  1,22          1,13'       1,11       0,82          0.83
Not Profit                                         1.05         0,98        0,91        0-58          0,72
Return gn Ecuity (tI                                   7            7           5           5             6



30
ANNEX 5
Balancg Sbes IQBI&-IB
(C. million)
AS of Oecefber 31                                         1984      198S     1986    1987       1988
AIILLI
urrent Asseti
Cash  and Bank                                          3,6       3.6      5,7      6,4      6,7
Current Maturities of Loans                            30,6      39,9     49,1     54,7    55,5
Receivables Oor FE Losses                              19        30,7     31,4    34,1      33,1
Other Receivaoles                                      16,2      25,8     26,8    37        37.3
Total Current As_tt                                 69,.4    100       113,-   132,2    132.6
Loans I.Eguity Portfolio
Loais Outstanding                                     194,2     210,6   227,6    239,8   247,1
Less:  Current Maturities                            -30,6    -39,9   -49,1    -54,7   -55,5
Equity tnvestments                                    25,8       28,5     28,7     30,4    26.5
Less:  Provisions for Losses                         - 6,8      - 7,7    - 8,1    - 9,1   - 11
Otbentures & Goverrnent Bonds  others                                                        4,4
ToTal N.t Portfol o                                182,6     191,5    199,1   206,4   211.5
Exchange Loss Oeferred
Net Fixed Assets                                           3,3       4,1      4,5      5,3      7,2
Net Deferred Charges
IQIAL 6SSEIS                                       255,3    295,6    316,6   343,9   351, 3
LfABrLI1rrE & SHAREHOLDERS' EOUIT
cUrrent LiabilHtis
.UIf rIRCL n"4dwt iL  i(Ur i.I U,Gui                  16,2      11,6      16,-     17,8    19,8
Olvidends & Taxes Payable                              6.3       7        7,4       7,2     6,7
Accounts Payable & Others                             74,6      50,3     63,9    78,7    79.9
Total Current LiabilitieS                           97,1      68,9     87,3    103,7   106,
Lana-Term Debt
Tot4l Local Loans
Total foreign Loans                                  146,4     199,3   205,3   220,1    224.4
Less: Current maturities                              16,2      11,6    16         17,8     .8
Total Long-rM Oebt                                 130,2     187,7    189,3    202.3   204.6
eronxayj ns  (fros losses of Inceas tf. pertieipetlme) ),0
f aulty
Share Capital                                         20        30       30       30       30
Reserves , DNRE, Report a nouveau (y compris           8         9       10        7,9      8,3
total Egulty                     r6sultat)         28        39       40        37.9    38.3
rDTAL LIABILIrTES & EOUITY                           255,3    295,6    316,6   343.9   351,3
Loans/Net Assets (t)                                  76,1      71,2     71,9    o9,7    70,3
Provisions/Loans (Z)                                   4,66      i,60     2,56     2,65     4,45
Current Ratio
Long-Term Oeot/Equity''                                4.65      4,81     4,73     5,34     5,34
"  Provisions in excess of probacle loan `sses are included unde. equity.



UUillE DE DE1WAff 9     rST   r ONtnQUE DE 13ISIE
DDAwrTNor ussuincus
Annex  6
Project Cost, Emp1oyment, Investment per Job
Project       Number    Inv. cost                   BDET Loan                 [BRD
Cost          Of Jobs  per job created   (in TD '000)                        Financing
Nauie               ReRion    tin TD '000) created   (in TD  '000)                  Total  BIRD Fin.            (TD '000)
New Companies
TANE1RI Du N0M  EL UlD                 2A  )                                                           660          41.4            265.-
,  U *                )    4 706            106               44*3             460         322.1            394.9
*  _}54                                                                38                46.-
SOCIETE TUNISI N       Ul JUUE              1      1 170             23               50.8             556.6       5505            105.6
STE. INWS. ACCESLIWE                          S ELEC.  9D1,6                                    82)     is         19               95.1
a                     a         ~~~~~      ~      ~~~~2 290  25     91.6             859.5       842             1018.6
123        128              361,3
RACIEU  MACNINES A BOIS                TUNIS                                                            128.7      190.5             230.9
150        150               113.1.
a  a                           2 500              38               65.8             481,2       66,2              19.1
60         21.-              25.5
STE.  UN. D'IID. NNTIQUES              SOUS-)                       5                                 1960        1960             2398.3
a  a  a                  a        ~~~~~~      ~     ~~53 000  525       97.1            466         35                3.
a  a  a     U     )                                                        630~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  192.5  1011.1 
CIE. TUN. DE RSSOtS A LAES M.AOUS  ) 8 000                           14P               54,0           lOSS        1351            1911.1
*  a  a  a                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100  62.-  81.8
INDUSTItE DE hIQUQ11S ZM!5 DIVE        NOSTIR  )IS2                                                               1224.4           16tS 2
a    a       ~~~a           *             9              190              28.4            152         1224.4            153.9
STE.  A    .   RD. CERAMIQUE            AEU                                                           1449.5       116.5            919.3
sos a *                          a      )  3 280             185               17.7             114         82.5             1oo
STE. COWST. ISOTUER. ET FRIG.          I.A;OUS   )                                                     634.1       136.2            202.1
*        *     a                 *        )p2 050             40               51.2              90         63.6              84.3
STE DE TISSAGE DaANRUU     u           NONASJIR      600              12               S0              M9S          631              84.23
M.  ANC         ALIIWTATION              L       ) 2 213             61                33              363         163,3            198.2
a    a                                                               66         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I3.2  51.9
-~     ~                         O                            91.6
Subtotal I          82 605           1 3S9               60.8           14 9396 1 73S                 13.9108
9396   1 73 3         70I



-   BANE DE DEVELOPPENET ECOWNICUE DE TUNISIE                                                     Annex  6 b
DEPARTRID REWSOURCES
Project Cost, Emp1oyment, Investment per Job
------------------e--O-----------
NAME              t * Project   t Number of  Inv. cost   E _   L
NAME                I REGION          I Cost       a jobs        1per job    I  _             IBRD -Finan isg
I                 I (TD '000) Icreated    Icreated    I Total            Financig  (TD '000)
~~------------  -   -  -------   --------                              11M      !(W I- Ir - --------e- ---- -  -
I        I                          I~~~~~------  -    ----
EXISTING COMPANIES    a                    a
commSA                  ITUNIS            I    600    1       -      I     -      I    390      1    143    1   185,1
SACB                     BIZERTE                                                        955        703,31   832,2
SACEI                   I BIZERTE         1  7 272    1    309    J   23,5        I  1 617      1    249,2  1   304,3
SACDI                   1BIZERTE                                                        595           96.7        127,1
SOCIETE  EIMERE         I                I             I             I            I             I            I
YUNISIINE -----         I TUNIS          t  2 460      1    104    1   23,6       1  1 111      1    973      1 1 388,6
SINE?                     B sizE             3 400    9    102    1   33,3    1    300               287.9  1   399.5
SOCIETE ELECTRO AL I                                   I            I J                 171    t        S,2  1      6I3
1  1    388    1       16    1   24,3   1~I    17        3       5,           ,
SOCIET  ELECTRONEAL IB.AROUS                   3              1 t                  J     68,5  1      53,4         68,8
SOCIETE SACHERIE W   I                    I            I            I             I             I             I
CUNTRE  --------- I KASSERINE            I  1 260    1    100    1   12,6        J    882,5  1    809,8  1   944,6
SOCIETE VaGENOTEURS    StssE              1    408    1       67    1    6,1      1    10      1    176,5  |   238
Subtotal II       I 15 788    I    698    I   22,6         1  6 276,2  t  3 498       1 4 494.5
I            I             I            I             I            I
TOTAL             t 98 393    1  2 057    1   47.8         1 21 215,8  1 14 233,3  118 465,1
I            I            I             I             I           -   3:
_____________________________________________________________         ____ ___  ____ ___  ___ ____  ___  ___ ____  ___ ___
x



Project Analysis by Manufacturing Sector                       iae. 7
Loan 2113-TUN
IBRD Financing         z
Number             (US$ '000)
MbE~                                    *                6 03s,s               32.7
Construction, glass ceramics            2                3 464                 12,,
Chemical products, rubber               2                4 70l1.3              25.4
Plastic
IAA                                     3                t 915,6               10.4
Textile, Clothing, Leather              2                 1 489,9               7.7
Wood, Cork, Furniture
Hotel & Tourism
Transport
Paper & Printing                        1                   944,6                5.
Building & Public Works
Miscellaneous
I8                18 465,3             300
I!



