Document of        C   I 5ECO
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3224-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
DE TUNISIE
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
March 2, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate used
in the President's and Staff Appraisal Reports, which approximates the current
rate, is:
US$1       = D 0.5
DI         = US$2.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
API         Industrial Investment Promotion Agency (Agence de Promotion des
Investissements Industriels)
BCT         Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque Centrale de Tunisie)
BDET        Economic Development Bank of Tunisia (Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie)
BTKD        Tunisian-Kuwaiti Development Bank
(Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement)
CTM         Technical Center for Mechanical Industries (Centre Technique de la
Mecanique)
EEC         European Economic Community
EMI         Electrical and Mechanical Industries
NIS         National Institute of Standardization and Quality Control
SIAT        Tunisian-Arab Investment Company (Soci4te d'Investissement Arabe
de Tunisie)
SOGITEX     General Textile Industries Inc. (Socidte G4nerale des Industries
Textiles)
SSI         Small-Scale Industries
STUSID      Tunisian-Saudi Investment and Development Company (Societe
Tuniso-Saoudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET)
Guarantor:                Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                   US$30.5 million in various currencies, including a
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                   The loan would be repayable according to a composite
amortization schedule not to exceed 15 years, includ-
ing a 3-year grace period, and reflecting the amorti-
zation schedule of the subloans; interest at 11.6 per-
cent per annum.
BDET Relending Terms    Interest rates would be 11 percent per annum at the
minimum, including commissions and fees, with repay-
ment periods of eight to twelve years. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
Project Description:    The proposed $30.5 million loan to BDET would consist
of a $28 million Credit Line of which one half (Part
A) for financing priority electrical and mechanical
industries (EMI), the other half (Part B) for general
purpose lending to industry; a $2 million Technical
Assistance Subloan from BDET to the Government
(Part C) to support the establishment of a Technical
Center for Mechanical Industries and a National Insti-
tute of Standardization and Quality Control, and the
preparation of an Effective Protection Study; and a
$0.5 million to finance the front-end fee. Also, in
the context of the project: BDET would be required to
allocate $30 million of its overall lending to EMI in
1982-1984, of which two-thirds to priority EMI sub-
sectors; a set of incentives specific to EMI affecting
tariff protection, price controls, exports and financ-
ing would be implemented; and two studies on develop-
ment strategies for the platework and foundry sub-
sectors would be prepared.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:       The proposed project would contribute 20 percent of
projected investments in EMI under the Sixth Plan
(1982-1986), would create 6,000 jobs, and generate
about *30 million in foreign exchange savings. It
would also improve the institutional and policy frame-
work affecting the development of EMI in Tunisia.
The possible risk of delays in the effective operation
of the two institutions to be created under the proj-
ect, and in the quality of their services, will be
minimized through intensive Bank monitoring and super-
vision.
bank Loan                                                  US$ Million
Disbursements:            Fiscal Year:                1983 1984 1985 1986 1987
Annual;                      6.9 14.1  6.1  2.6   .8
Cummulative:                 6.9 21.0 27.1 29.7 30.5
Appraisal Report:         Report No. 3689-TUN of March 2, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE BANQUE DE
DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR AN
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Banque de D4veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) to be guaranteed
by the Republic of Tunisia, for the equivalent of US$30.5 million of which
$28 million would be relent to finance electrical, mechanical and other
industrial subprojects; $2 million would be relent to the Government of
Tunisia to finance the technical assistance required for the establishment
of a Technical Center for Mechanical Industries and a National Institute of
Standardization and Quality Control, and the preparation of an Effective
Protection Study; and $0.5 million would finance the front-end fee. The
interest rate would be 11.6 percent per annum. The $28 million would be
relent by BDET at a minimum interest rate of 11 percent per annum with
repayment periods of eight to twelve years. The proposed loan would be
repaid according to a composite amortization schedule not to exceed 15
years, including 3 years of grace, and reflecting the amortization schedule
of the subloans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in October 1981 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects its preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of
arable land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible
are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most
important raw materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; although
the known exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and
those of phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there are recent
promising indications of new reserves, but it is too early to assess their
exact potential. There is also considerable tourism potential, and efforts
have been made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
1/ Part I is reprinted from President's Report No. P-3219-TUN of February 26,
1982 for a Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project.



infant mortality rate declined from 150 per thousand in the early 1960s to
90 per thousand at the end of the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased
from under 15 percent to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply per
capita increased from about 80 to 112 percent of minimum standard require-
ments. The sharp decrease in mortality rates was not fully compensated by
the simultaneous decrease in fertility and birth rates, despite an active
family planning policy pursued by the Government. Therefore, the annual
demographic growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in the
1960s to 2.4 percent in the 1970s. Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration
of Tunisians abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures taken in the
EEC countries and Libya. As a consequence, the residential population of 6.57
million by the middle of 1981 exceeds the level projected five years earlier
by 130,000.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians
in the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total
investments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They
provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth (6.3 percent p.a. vs. 8.6 percent p.a.)
as in terms of the underlying growth factors; output in agriculture and in
food industries has grown on average below the demographic rate since 1976,
partially as a result of bad weather conditions; textile production declined
in 1978, and tourism development slowed down in 1977, both because of the
slump in European markets. By contrast, industry other than textiles,
particularly energy, phosphate processing, construction, and construction
materials, expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, partic-
ularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable
from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than
exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher
post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained
relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of
investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76
to 30 percent of GDP for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450
million per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and private
investments (mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while
the remainder was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus,
during the 1970s total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and
the debt service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistri-
buting domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to
about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the



highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers accounted for 16 percent of total current budget
outlays and over 4 percent of GDP in 1980.
9.       Open and hidden unemployment is the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives
were achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these
sectors could only absorb 70 percent of new job seekers at a time when migra-
tion to Libya and Europe decreased rapidly. The overall unemployment rate,
estimated at about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not
declined.
10.      Medium-term Prospects.  The main objectives of the Fifth Development
Plan will probably be achieved, except for the employment target. It is
estimated that the actual GDP growth will fall short by about 1 percent of
the planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., while the investment objective of
$9.8 billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, will be fully met.
Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of
the oil refinery) has, however, been delayed. Private sector investments,
both foreign and national, will exceed Plan targets.
11.      The draft Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) has been prepared and
should be discussed by the newly elected Parliament in June 1982. The main
objectives are employment generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth
in the three least developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West,
and South). Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and
electrical and mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and
beyond will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural
gas sector. Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of
smaller fields that recently became profitable, it is generally expected
that domestic oil and gas production would at best be stabilized after 1981
at about its present annual level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging but do not yet
justify a reassessment of proven reserves.  Thus, barring large new oil or gas
discoveries, and given the rapid rise in domestic demand for energy, Tunisia
will have to face the consequences of a decline in energy revenues over the
next five years. The Government considers that the situation requires imme-
diate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent ones to be included in
the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time, Tunisia expects to
reduce the associated economic and social strains, and avoid major balance-
of-payments problems.
13.      The draft Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range
of 6.3 - 6.7 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate
is in line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports



(tourism, textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compen-
sate for the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports would be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit, given in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order
to control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement
in terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the draft Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed
investment rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 26 percent for
the Plan period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant
prices relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct
recent capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation
of investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium manu-
facturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem, and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incen-
tive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to offer
free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new projects
in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household
Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient technical and
financial management of the public and private modern sector, the draft
Plan assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an expanded
network of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are planned for
1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors, and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption,
and stimulate savings. As a first encouraging step in 1981, sizeable price
increases in energy and animal feed products were implemented, and the whole
interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving accounts and
term deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. Wage and salary policies
will have to keep labor cost increases (including social costs chargeable to
enterprises) in line with productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia
wants to stimulate tourism, and improve its international competitiveness.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young, and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total



- 5 -
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but increased in some rural
zones in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural
performance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interior
(West) widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as
well as the budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The
Government is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the most deprived zones,
with a view to eradicating poverty before the end of this century. Reducing
the demographic growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and
the gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education,
and 22 percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could,
however, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving
their relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs
of the poor and rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures,
and their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the
vital statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in
the availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health
services have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical
referral system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor
are often excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant
mortality remains high relative to middle-income countries.
20.      In the draft Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing
and water supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower
costs (health, shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy
(training). In education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one
would provide a nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second
would create polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical
education. In health, the draft Sixth Plan allocates more resources to
preventive medicine and nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing,
public subsidized programs will be directed to the neediest population
groups. The housing demand from households above the minimum standard
income limit could be satisfied by the private sector; to this end,
adequate incentives need to be provided.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the
growth of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s,
and a growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at
relatively soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments
averaged about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of
official development assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments
came from bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany,
Canada, and some oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was
committed by the Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral
sources. Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and



18.5 years maturity, including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of
1980, debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion,
or 40 percent of GDP; debt service was 12 percent of exports of goods and
services, as compared with 17.7 percent in 1970.
22.      The current account deficit may exceed $450 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at one billion dollars per year on average (at present
dollar exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA
providing half of the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil
and gas discoveries, and assuming oil prices continue to increase modestly
in real terms, external debt service could reach 13 percent of total export
revenues in 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely
implementation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic
demand, promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be
noted, however, that the draft Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario
in order to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and
credit-worthiness. This objective is even more crucial if the country is
to succeed in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed
in the Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but
have gained momentum during the last three years in line with increased
activities in the oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign inves-
tors in manufacturing. Such investments have increased from $50 million in
1976 to about $200 million in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent
of total investments for 1977-81. The draft Plan's growth scenario estimates
that about 15 percent of total investment could be financed by foreign capi-
tal, equivalent to an annual inflow of $400 million. The newly created
Development Banks (para. 14) are expected to play a significant role in this
context.
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and
skillful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good
grounds to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary
policy changes, and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending.
The Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at
the macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the preparation
of the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA 1/
25.      Since 1962,  the Bank has committed to Tunisia forty-eight loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $933.7 million and $70.1 million
1/ Part II is substantially the same as that in President's Report No.
P-3219-TUN of February 26, 1982 for a Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project.



-7-
(net of cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and nine credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satisfactory.
As of June 30, 1981, overall disbursements amounted to 66.1 percent of
appraisal estimates, which is slightly above the regional average. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the effi-
cient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to; (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth
and distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies and investments;
and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic infrastructure
and for institution building in key public services. An important feature of
this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the timely and well-
coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice by Bank staff,
the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, and the use of the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility. The Bank is also supporting the Government in
its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure
cofinancing for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important
in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending
for urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 33
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 25 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Banque de Developpement Economique de
Tunisie (BDET), 17 percent of total commitments.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional integra-
tion, and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between urban and
rural areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment creation,
institution building, and agricultural development. In addition to the
proposed industrial development project, and the rural roads project which
has been distributed to the Executive Directors on March 4, 1982, the Bank
is actively considering a project in support of the 1984-86 investment
programs for rural areas and house connections of the national water supply
agency (SONEDE), a project aimed at improving irrigation and marketing
facilities in the Medjerda and Nebhana irrigation perimeters, and a project
to provide technical assistance for project preparation. Other projects under
consideration would focus on energy, urban development and education.



- 8 -
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program;
it will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues
and policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum
exporting to a petroleum importing country. A 1980 Bank report on the
mechanical and electrical industries (Report No. 2666-TUN of June 4, 1980)
assessed the country's industrial development policies and prospects in
these subsectors. Also in 1980, the Bank report on the social aspects of
development (Report No. 2950-TUN of June 18, 1980) provided a better
understanding of income disparities by evaluating the Government's social
policies aimed at poverty alleviation. Future economic and sector work will
include a review of pricing and subsidy policies in the rural sector, of the
Sixth Plan, and of the agricultural, education and training, urban and energy
sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private sources) was
10 percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was 11 percent. The
shares of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to
decrease to about 7 percent by 1986, and their share in the debt service would
increase to about 16 percent.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financiare et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliare RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12
million, as of September 30, 1981.
PART III - ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES
32.      Sectoral Background.  Manufacturing plays a major role in Tunisia's
economic development in view of its employment and export potential, and its
ability to attract foreign investments. In the 1960s, the industrialization
drive aimed at import-substitution, and was led by the public sector which
established capital-intensive, resource-based industries (construction
materials, textiles, phosphate derivatives), and a core of basic metal
industries (steel mill, foundry). This strategy contributed little to
employment creation, and was constrained by the small domestic market.
The shift to more liberal economic policies in the 1970s, with increased
emphasis on labor-intensive and export-oriented activities, provided
generous incentives to foreign and domestic private investors. As a result,
manufacturing grew at a rate of 10.2 percent during the Fifth Plan period
(1977-1981) from about 6.4 percent per annum in the 1960s. It accounted for
45 percent of total new employment (33 percent in the early 1960s), exceeding
the Plan's target. It has become less capital-intensive, and overall



productivity has improved. However, the productivity and contribution to GDP
and employment of total manufacturing, as well as of each subsector, remained
below those in comparable middle-income countries. The manufacturing base is
still concentrated in two traditional subsectors: food processing and
textiles which, together, accounted for about 50 percent of total
manufacturing value-added and employment, and about 60 percent of total
manufacturing exports during the Fifth Plan period.
33.      EMI Growth Trends and Structural Patterns.  The engineering (elec-
trical and mechanical) industries, by providing the design, the development
and production technology of industrial parts and components, and the link
between supplier and end-products assembly industries, represent a crucial
sector at the present stage of Tunisia's industrial development. Almost
inexistent twenty years ago, Tunisian EMI grew rapidly by 18 percent per
annum in the 1960s, and by about 13 percent per annum in the 1970s. Yet,
they currently contribute only 1.9 percent of GDP, and, with an average
value-added/ output ratio of a low 30 percent, they represent the least
developed manufacturing activity. They consist of about 300 enterprises
of which 70 percent have less than 50 workers, and are dominated by a
dozen large (more than 100 workers) public enterprises accounting for
over 50 percent of the sector's output.
34.      Tunisian EMI can be classified in three categories:  (a) Consumer
and durable goods industries (hardware, metal products, household appliances,
automobile assembly) account for 40 percent of total EMI output, and cover
about half of domestic demand for these goods. These are end-products
assembly enterprises relying for 40-70 percent of their output value on
imported inputs; they are generally inefficient, capital-intensive and
weakly integrated; (b) Intermediate goods industries (foundries, construc-
tion rods, wires, pipes and parts) represent 40 percent of EMI output, cover
one-third of domestic demand, and rely more on local inputs. They use more
appropriate technologies, and in most cases operate efficiently. Prices are
generally 110-130 percent of European FOB prices; and (c) Capital goods
industries represent 20 percent of EMI output, and meet only 10 percent of
domestic demand. They comprise mainly steel and platevork industries, ship
repair yards, electrical and agricultural machinery plants, and small diesel
engine assemblies.   These industries use local inputs for up to 35 percent
of output value. Their labor-intensive techniques, with an overall labor
cost equivalent to one-third of the European average, more than offset
fiscal charges and the low productivity of labor, thus allowing reasonable
competitiveness. Prices are between 90 and 110 percent of European FOB prices.
35.      While consumer and durable EMI goods are highly protected (30 to 200
percent), tariff duties on capital/intermediate goods are low, ranging from
0 to 16 percent (26 percent for steel structure and platework). In principle,
according to the Investment Code, EMI capital goods can be imported free or
after payment of these duties in the case of imports competing with local
production. However, in practice, these duties have not been generally
levied, and, in order to protect nascent engineering industries, the



- 10 -
Government has used an import licencing procedure controlling imports of EMI
goods in those cases where Tunisian products are competitive in terms of
prices and quality, and limiting these imports to the share of the local
market which cannot be satisfied by local producers. Import licences are
currently issued for about half of the capital goods imports. A review of
this complex protection structure is to be undertaken through an Effective
Protection Study for manufacturing. The proposed project would support this
study, and would provide for measures aimed at a progressive liberalization of
import through a program of adjustment of the protection system and of price
controls as they affect Tunisian EMI (paras. 66-67).
36.      The EMI concentration on end-product assembly industries relying
on imported inputs has resulted in a low domestic value-added, has slowed
sectoral development, and led to growing imports of EMI products from 35
percent of total imports in 1970 ($120 million) to 47 percent in 1978 ($800
million). This imposes an increasingly heavy burden on the balance of pay-
ments, and is distorting and constraining the growth of the manufacturing
sector at a time when the rapid expansion of the leading subsectors (food
processing and textiles) is levelling off because of market and resource
constraints. A recent Bank report on EMI (para. 29) stressed the priority
need for a well balanced diversification and expansion of these industries,
and proposed guidelines for a development strategy which has been largely
incorporated in the Sixth Development Plan (1982-1986). The proposed project
will support the implementation of this strategy.
37.      EMI Potential and Development Strategy.  Tunisia has a well trained
labor force whose wages are still well below European levels; it has liberal
investment policies with regard to foreign and private investments, is close
to Europe and the Arab Countries, and has preferential access to the EEC
market. This gives the country a comparative advantage in efficient
import-substitution and export production of capital and intermediate goods,
particularly in sub-sectors using labor-intensive and simple or intermediate
technologies, where economies of scale are available at low level.
38.      The development strategy would therefore give priority to the follow-
ing three categories of production activities . (a) Capital and intermediate
goods with domestic markets large enough to sustain economic production.
This includes foundries (ferrous castings), steel structures and platework
(boilers, furnaces, pressure vessels, lifting and hoisting machinery) for
which imports more than doubled between 1977 and 1979 (from $36 to $75
million), selected mechanical works (agricultural and small earth-moving
and construction machinery, railroad freight cars, pumps, compressors)
for which imports rose from $60 to $90 million between 1977 and 1979, and
electromechanical and electronic machinery (motors, transformers, switch-
gears, cables and telephone equipment) for which imports reached $105 million
in 1979; (b) Diesel engines and derived machinery, and their components and
parts, for which the fragmented domestic market would be rationalized and
complemented by exports; and (c) Selected export-oriented production lines
with a high level of intra-sectoral integration and value-added content, and



- 11 -
established or potential markets (handtools and cutlery, mechanical and
electrical components and appliances, heavy metal structures and electrical
gear). These production activities could, in the medium-term, substitute for
about 11 percent of total imports of manufactured goods (about $600 million in
1981 prices), and for 20 percent of total EMI imports. The proposed strategy
would also diversify and expand EMI exports which accounted in 1979 for 18
percent of total EMI output ($315 million) and only 8.5 percent of total
manufacturing exports ($642 million).
39.      Constraints.  Low labor productivity and biases in the incentive
framework have hampered EMI development. These factors are essentially
related to the general policy and institutional framework affecting
Tunisia's industrial development. The latter have failed to generate
efficient sub-sectoral strategies and adequate incentives fostering
productive exportoriented and well-integrated EMI, and to address specific
productivity and efficiency issues at the firm level. The discussions held
with the Government during project preparation resulted in the selection of
two EMI priority subsectors, foundries and steel platework, for an in depth
review under the project (para. 68) to define development strategies and
investment programs, and identify cost-effective production lines. With
regard to incentives, the Investment Codes, in spite of their general
beneficial impact on investment and employment creation, had some negative
secondary effects which, combined with the complex protection and price
control systems, have created biases against firm specialization and
rationalization of product mix, and have constrained intra-sectoral
integration, the production of capital and intermediate goods, and
export-oriented activities.
40.      Law 1974-74, aiming at employment creation, introduced tax
exemptions based on job creation with no regard to labor productivity or
capital intensity. As protection and price policies did not encourage
efficiency, manufacturing firms have tended to expand into a large variety
of activities, seeking self-sufficiency beyond economic justification. In
addition, the lack of established quality standards and controls has further
discouraged intrasectoral and inter-enterprise linkages and integration. With
regard to EMI exports, law 1972-38, which encouraged foreign investments and
exports, while attracting foreign investors (para. 23), has tended to promote
exports of foreign rather than local firms. Also, rigid procedures
in applying complex fiscal provisions have prevented the exemption of inputs
used for exports from duties and taxes, and the lack of standards and quality
controls has further contributed to discourage exports. The proposed project
will address some of these major inadequacies of the industrial incentive
framework (paras. 65, 67).
41.      The above constraints have affected EMI at the enterprise level,
generating poor plant and workshop design and lay-outs, low labor productivity
and management efficiency, and discouraging firms from engaging in production
lines with higher value-added content. Although labor productivity (value
added per worker) in EMI has steadily increased, averaging $2,900 in 1980,
it is still low compared to similar Mediterranean countries. This is partly
related to the shortage of production engineers, and to the low proportion of
skilled to unskilled labor. The output of the vocational training system



- 12 -
(technicians and skilled workers) will substantially increase during the
1980s when the recently approved Fourth Education project (Loan No. 1961-TUN
of 1981) becomes operational. A major increase in the number of production
engineers is envisaged during the coming years through the establishment,
under the Sixth Plan, of Institutes of Technology and the strengthening of
the National School of Engineering. The current need for technical and
technological assistance at the enterprise level will be addressed under
the proposed project (paras. 63-64).
42.      Government's Objectives.  The draft Sixth Plan (1982-1986) gives
first priority to EMI in the industrial sector. During the Plan period, the
Government intends to more than double annual investments in EMI (to $150
million), bringing the annual growth of these industries from about 15.5 to
18.7 percent, thus increasing the share of EMI in manufacturing output from 14
percent in 1981 to about 19 percent by 1986. This is a very ambitious program
requiring a major promotional effort. If achieved it would allow the Tunisian
engineering industries to catch up a substantial part of their development lag
and would bring the structure of Tunisian manufacturing in line with that of
comparable countries. One third of total investments in EMI would come from
the public sector, and would go to foundries and a steel mill. The other two
thirds would come mostly from the private sector, and be directed mainly to
the production of capital and intermediate goods; hardware and consumer goods
would receive only 6 percent of total investments in EMI. The shift away
from consumer goods industries would allow a considerable investment effort
towards higher value-added and technology-content subsectors, such as mechan-
ical works and electrical industries.   As a result, these two EMI subsectors
together would increase their shares in EMI output to 45 percent by 1986 as
compared to 27 percent in 1981.
43.      A recent revision of the Investment Code (Law No. 81-56 of
June 23, 1981) introduced measures to promote regional decentralization,
expand exports, and reduce capital-intensive tendencies. However, additional
and more refined incentives specific to EMI are needed. The focus of the
proposed project on a set of incentives and policy and administrative
adjustments which can be easily and rapidly implemented would represent a
major contribution to the achievement of the Government's objectives for
EMI, and for Tunisia's industrial development during the Sixth Plan.
44.      The Financial Sector.  Large industrial development projects in
Tunisia are generally sponsored by the public sector, and financed by the
Government or through direct foreign borrowings. The banking system
finances small and medium-scale industrial projects. The Banque de
D4veloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET), the principal development finance
company, plays a central role in this respect providing medium and long-term
financing mainly to private small and medium-scale enterprises. In 1980, it
held about 39 percent of all long-term, and about 30 percent of all
outstanding private industrial credit. Ten commercial banks provide mainly
short-term financing, but are encouraged to engage in medium-term lending.
45.      This relatively well developed financial system is currently under-
going important changes. The creation of major development finance companies
(para. 14) will have a far-reaching impact on the industrial finance scene.



- 13 -
In 1981, the Tunisian-Kuwaiti Development Bank (BTKD) and the Tunisian-Saudi
Investment Company (STUSID) were established with a capital of D100 million
($200 million) each (as compared to BDET's capital of DIO million), and other
similar institutions are expected to be established in the near future
(Tunisian-French, Tunisian-Qatari and Tunisian-Algerian banks). These banks
will be allowed to lend and take equity participation in all sectors, whereas
BDET is limited to industry, tourism and transportation. BTKD aims at build-
ing up a portfolio divided equally into loans and equities, of which 60 per-
cent would be allocated to industry, and 20 percent to tourism. However,
these new banks, which are expected to finance mainly large-scale projects in
the public sector, cannot match BDET's twenty years experience in promoting
and appraising industrial projects in the private sector. BDET will therefore
continue to play a major role in the development of medium and small private
manufacturing industries in Tunisia.
46.      The interest rat-e structure was revised effective April 1, 1981.  The
Central Bank (BCT) basic rediscount rate for short-term credits was raised
from 5.25 percent to 7 percent, and to 9.75-10.25 percent for rediscountable
medium-term credits to industry. Interest rates on long-term loans (above 7
years) have been freed, subject to a minimum rate of 10.5 percent, as compared
to the previous 9 percent ceiling. To face competition from commercial banks,
and from the new development banks, which have an average cost of resources
(essentially share capital) substantially lower than that of BDET, the latter
kept in 1981 its lending rate to local industries at 10.5 percent per annum
(11 and 12 percent for foreign industries and tourism respectively), with com-
mission and fees amounting to about 0.5 percent per annum. As of 1981, these
rates have been, and are expected to remain significantly positive in real
terms, given projected inflation rates at 9 percent in 1982, 8 percent in
1983, and 7 percent in 1984. BDET's current financial projections assume an
increase in its lending rates of about 0.5 percent every year from 1982 to
1985. This is in line with the revision of the interest rate structure
currently under consideration by the Government in the context of the
preparation of the Sixth Plan.
47.      Bank Role in the Manufacturing Sector.  Apart from the recently
approved loan to SOGITEX (Loan No.2012-TUN of 1981), Bank financing of manu-
facturing in Tunisia has consisted of loans provided through BDET. The latter
has received to date seven Bank loans totalling $95.8 million (net of cancel-
lations), of which $3.4 million remained undisbursed as of February 25, 1982.
Most of these funds financed manufacturing industries. Through its loans to
BDET, the Bank aimed at promoting industrial decentralization, export-
oriented, and labor-intensive industries. Bank loans have helped meet BDET
resource requirements while assisting in strengthening its organization and
improving its performance. Through its representative on BDET's Board, IFC
has offered a substantial contribution in this regard.
48.      The Project Performance Audit Report of September 1981 on loans Nos.
648-TUN, 798-TUN and 881-TUN, covering the third (1969), fourth (1972) and
fifth (1973) loans to BDET, concluded that considerable progress had been made



- 14 -
in terms of institution building and management performance, and that these
loans have contributed to changing BDET's role from a supplier of equity
funds for public sector industries, to that of financier and advisor of
private investors. However, BDET's promotion and supervision capacity, and
its evaluation of physical and financial contingencies of projects needed
strengthening. The seventh loan to BDET (No. 1504-TUN of 1978) addressed
some of these issues, and included a credit line for a pilot Small-Scale
Industries (SSI) scheme (Loan No. 1505-TUN of 1978) which prepared the
ground for a $30 million loan to SSI through commercial banks and BDET as
intermediaries (Loan No. 1969-TUN of 1981).
49.      The Bank loans have strengthened the leading role that BDET has
played, and will continue to play in the development of medium and small-
scale manufacturing industries in Tunisia. The proposed project would
represent a continuation of the Bank involvement in Tunisia's industrial
development, and a first sectoral approach to the development and expansion
of a crucial manufacturing subsector. The proposed development of EMI, the
implementation of improved industrial policy measures, and the institution
building aspect of the project are expected to increase the efficiency of
the Tunisian manufacturing industries, and expand their import-substitution
and export capacities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.      Background.  The groundwork for the proposed project was laid in
the Bank sector report on EMI prepared in 1979-1980; the Tunisian Government
agreed with the report's major recommendations, and the project was identi-
fied in December 1979 on the basis of a review of BDET's past and prospective
lending to EMI. Preparation work started in June 1980, and the project was
appraised in June 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
February 1982. The Tunisian Delegation included representatives of BDET,
and the Ministries of Planning and Finance, and of National Economy. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3689-TUN, dated March 2, 1982) is being distrib-
uted separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project
are listed in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report and
in Annex III.
51.      The Borrower.  Established in 1959, BDET has been successful,
particularly in recent years, in mobilizing domestic as well as foreign
currency resources from concessional lenders. As a result, the share of
Bank funds has declined from 37.4 percent of its long term resources in 1974
to 24.3 percent in 1980. BDET is gaining increasing access to the inter-
national capital market; its share capital increased from D 3 million in 1971
to D 10 million in 1978, and is expected to be increased again to D 30 million
($60 million) by 1985. BDET is owned in majority by private shareholders, and
is free from major Government interferences in its lending and borrowing
policies.



- 15 -
52.      BDET's Statutes and Policy Statement have not changed since the
last Bank appraisal (Report No. 1734b-TUN of November 29, 1977). Effective
July 1, 1981, its management has been strengthened through the creation of
new Personnel and Internal Auditing Services. Also, the integration of the
Supervision Division into the Credit Department is expected to improve BDET's
supervision capacity by associating follow-up with appraisal activities.
Nevertheless, supervision and promotion activities need to be substantially
expanded to meet BDET's lending targets during the Sixth Plan (para. 55), and
maintain the quality standard of its operations. BDET has already hired five
additional professional staff in 1981. It was agreed during negotiations that
BDET will further strengthen its management through the recruitment of an
appropriate number of well qualified supervisory staff and promotion engineers.
53.      Financial Situation and Resources Requirements.  BDET has maintained
an overall satisfactory financial performance. Its successful mobilization
of foreign resources will cover about two-thirds of its projected foreign
exchange requirements for 1982-1983, leaving a gap estimated at D 14.2 million
($28.4 million). The proposed credit line to BDET would cover this gap, and
would represent about 25 percent of all long-term foreign resources to be
borrowed during this period. The planned issues of bonds in 1982 and 1983,
and the forthcoming capital increase would cover all the dinar requirements.
In view of the increasing cost of foreign borrowings, it is expected that the
Government will allow BDET to raise a larger share of its resources in dinars
on the local financial market. In 1980, BDET's auditors issued an unqualified
opinion; arrears affected 9.7 percent of the total portfolio, and debt
rescheduling was kept within reasonable limits. Some deterioration of the
portfolio is expected in 1981. However, BDET's portfolio is, overall, well
diversified and sound. Accumulated provision for risk exceeded the auditors'
recommendation by 19 percent. Total assets amounted to about $236 million
equivalent, a 44 percent increase between 1977 and 1980. Although BDET plans
to borrow about $850 million equivalent during 1982-1986, its planned capital
increase will maintain its debt-equity ratio well below the 8.1 ceiling
required by its Policy Statement, and the Bank Seventh Loan Agreement (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.06). BDET's debt service ratio is expected to improve
from 1.1 in 1981 to 1.3 afterwards, and its interest coverage ratio has been,
since 1977, and will remain satisfactory, at 1.2 or above during the period
1982-1986.
54.      Operations.  Since 1978, BDET's approvals have been growing on the
average at the annual rate of about 6.5 percent assumed at the time of the
last Bank appraisal. Between 1977 and 1979, industry accounted for over 81
percent of total approvals, but for only 58 percent in 1980, mainly due to a
large increase of tourism financing. Lending to the private sector repre-
sented about 75 percent of total approvals during 1977-1980. The promotion
and financing of EMI have enjoyed BDET's priority attention; these industries
accounted for over 13 percent of BDET's total portfolio, and over 22 percent
of its lending to manufacturing. BDET contributed to the creation of 4,600
and 10,300 jobs in 1980 and 1981 respectively. The average cost per job for
all projects was $37,000 in 1980, mainly due to a few capital-intensive public
projects. This average was, however, below $12,000 for small-scale industrial



- 16 -
projects which represented 36 percent of total projects financed by BDET (up
from 14 percent in 1978). While BDET will pursue its dual strategy of lending
to both small/ labor-intensive, and large/capital-intensive projects with
satisfactory rates of return, the emphasis on low-cost job creation under the
Bank credit lines to SSI (para. 48) is expected to keep a low average
investment cost per job. Although employment creation is not its primary
objective, the proposed project is expected to create about 6,000 jobs at an
average investment cost of about $13,500 (at 1980 prices).
55.      Starting in 1982, BDET will scale up considerably its financing
operations to contribute to the objectives of the Sixth Plan. Total approvals
are projected to increase by 66 percent in 1982-1983, and to stabilize in 1984
at 180 percent of their 1979-1980 level. BDET is expected to finance about 11
percent of total investments in manufacturing under the Sixth Plan, a major
contribution as total investments in manufacturing are expected to more than
double. BDET's lending target to EMI is expected to cover 20 percent of
projected investments in EMI under the Sixth Plan.
56.      A Government subsidy has in the past maintained a minimum 3 percent
spread on foreign currency borrowings. Following the recent decision to
increase and liberalize long-term interest rates (para. 46), the Government
had indicated its intent to discontinue this subsidy as soon as possible.
Based on an assumed increase in its lending rates by half a percentage point
every year, as of 1982, and excluding any Government subsidy, BDET's spread
is projected to be 1 percent in 1983, 1.6 percent in 1985, and 2 percent in
1986. Government support may therefore be warranted in the coming few years
to compensate BDET for the major responsibility it will have to carry under
the Sixth Plan (involving substantial additional costs), and for the high
cost of its foreign borrowings. It was agreed during negotiations that BDET
will review its lending rates annually with the Government, and make adjust-
ments satisfactory to the Bank to achieve a spread between its interest income
and interest payments ensuring sufficient provisions and reserves, and a
reasonable return on its capital; and that the Government would make adequate
arrangements, including lending rates adjustments and greater access to lower
cost local resources, to allow BDET to achieve and maintain this profit
margin, with the additional objective of eliminating its direct financial
support by the end of 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.13 and Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
57.      Project Objectives and Content.  The major objective of the proposed
project would be to foster the development of the Tunisian engineering indus-
tries, improve their efficiency and productivity, and increase the local
production of capital and intermediate goods at competitive prices. The
project would increase BDET's financing of EMI projects, improve the policies
and institutional framework affecting these industries, and provide finance
to BDET for its regular lending operations to industry. The project would
consist of a $30.5 million loan, channelled entirely through BDET, to finance:
(a) a Credit Line of $28 million of which Part A ($14 million) would finance



- 17 -
subprojects in priority EMI subsectors as defined under the project (para.
58), and Part B ($14 million) would finance sub-projects in other industrial
subsectors; and (b) a Technical Assistance Subloan to the Government under
Part C amounting to $2 million, for the establishment of a Technical Center
for Mechanical Industries (CTM) and a National Institute of Standardization
and Quality Control (NIS), and for the preparation of an Effective Protection
Study for manufacturing. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
Government. In the context of the proposed project, BDET has agreed to
allocate from its foreign currency resources, during a two-year period
between July 1982 and June 1984, a minimum of $30 million equivalent to
EMI, of which at least two-thirds to the priority subsectors, including the
$14 million under Part A of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).
This would double BDET's annual commitments to EMI as compared to the annual
average achieved during 1977-1980. On the basis of the Bank review of BDET's
pipeline of projects, and with the understanding on the recruitment of addi-
tional professional staff (para. 52), it is expected that BDET will be able
to meet the agreed lending target. In addition, a set of policy and incentive
measures geared to EMI in the areas of tariff protection, price controls,
export and financing would be implemented, and two studies on the development
strategies of the foundry and steel platework subsectors would be prepared and
reviewed by the Bank.
58.      Eligibility Criteria.  Subprojects to be financed under Part A of
the Bank loan would have to be within the priority EMI subsectors, producing
capital and intermediate goods, to be defined for this purpose as those cur-
rently protected by nominal tariff duties of up to 18 percent (21 percent for
the steel structure and platework subsectors). The Government has agreed that
the current tariff levels on priority EMI products will not be raised above
these ceilings without prior consultation with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.04(a)(i), and Loan Agreement, Section 1.02 (e)).
59.      The project would seek to foster the gradual liberalization of the
import licencing procedures which are currently used as a policy instrument
in appropriate circumstances. In order to maintain efficiency and competi-
tiveness in priority EMI subsectors, an understanding has been reached with
the Government, and confirmed during negotiations, that, in these subsectors,
all projects involving foreign partners would have to produce at prices not
exceeding 118 percent (121 percent for the steel structure and platework
subsector) of the ex-factory price of the foreign partner in his domestic
market for products of similar quality, plus an estimate of the insurance and
transportation costs. This would be achieved during the first three years of
production through price controls. After these first three years, projects
producing above these price levels would be exposed to gradually liberalized
imports. In the case of projects with no foreign partner, an understanding
was reached with the Government that similar pricing control measures would be
applied, using for comparison an ex-factory price in the domestic market of
Tunisia's major traditional partners. It was agreed that, in all cases, the
Government would ensure that appropriate measures are taken by promoters to
guarantee products satisfactory quality standards.



- 18 -
60.      Export-oriented subprojects in non-priority EMI subsectors would
also be eligible under Part A of the credit line when based on buy-back
arrangements with foreign partners covering at least 70 percent of the
subproject output (Loan Agreement, Section 1.02 (d)). Other requirements
for financing under Part A of the Bank loan would be: (a) a financial rate
of return of at least 12 percent, and an economic rate of return of at least
10 percent; (b) a total investment cost, including permanent working capital,
of less than $12 million equivalent, and a foreign exchange cost not exceeding
$2 million; and (c) private ownership (less than 50 percent Government equity)
(Loan Agreement, Sections 1.02(d) (g) and 2.03(d)). BDET has agreed that all
EMI projects to be financed by BDET in priority subsectors, and one out of
three EMI projects to be financed by BDET in non-priority subsectors will be
reviewed by the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(c)), and that appraisal
reports of EMI subprojects would follow a detailed format (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.04 and Schedule 3). It was also agreed that industrial subprojects
other than EMI to be financed under Part B of the Bank loan would have to
satisfy the criteria under (a) above (Loan Agreement, Section 1.02(f)), and
that, for these subprojects, a free limit of D500,000 ($1 million equivalent)
will be applied (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(c)). The final date for submis-
sion of projects for financing under the Credit Line would be December 31,
1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.04(c)).
61.      BDET's procurement procedures require borrowers to obtain at least
three price quotations from suppliers/contractors. BDET's procurement and
disbursements procedures are satisfactory, and would continue to be carried
out as under the previous Bank Loans (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). ICB
procedures would not be suitable because of the small amount of subprojects'
foreign exchange financing, and the great variety of the goods and types of
equipment, and the requirements of foreign partners.
62.      Technical Assistance to be financed under Part C of the Bank loan
represents a fundamental aspect of this project, that would extend beyond it
to cover the entire EMI sector and affect Tunisia's overall industrial devel-
opment, as it would support the creation of two new institutions (CTM and
NIS), and the preparation of an Effective Protection Study for manufacturing.
Because of the importance of this component, the signature of the $2 million
Technical Assistance Subloan between BDET and the Government would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the Bank Loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(d)). This
Subloan would cover the foreign exchange cost, including salaries, fees, and
travel of consultants, whose terms of reference and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.07). An
understanding was reached during negotiations that a Project Coordinator would
be appointed by the Government to expedite the implementation of Part C of the
proposed project.
63.      The Technical Center for Mechanical Industries (CTM) would provide
technical and technological assistance through advisory services and on-the-
job training to improve technical management and labor productivity at the
shop level, adapt and develop new products and processes, and help introduce
and generalize the use of standards and quality control procedures. The CTM
would be established as an autonomous semi-public institution under the



- 19 -
Ministry of National Economy, and would incorporate the Tool and Die Center,
established in 1971 in Sousse to develop and produce tools and dies. Its
activities would focus at the initial stage on two priority subsectors, steel
structure/platework and mechanical works, where the need for technical
assistance is most urgent. BDET will be required to include in the appraisals
of subprojects in these industries the scope and timetable of the technical
assistance to be provided by CTM (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 3(g)).
64.      Four of the nine members of the CTM's Board would be representa-
tives from small and medium-size private enterprises.   During the initial
two years, the CTM would be staffed with a minimum core of eighteen Tunisian
engineers and technicians, and eight foreign specialists. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that at least four foreign specialists will be
in place by October 1, 1982 (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.07(e)), and that
the CTM's terms of reference, funding, staffing, equipment and work program
during its first 2 years of operation would be satisfactory to the Bank
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06(a)). The foreign exchange costs for the
technical assistance required during the first two years of CTM's operation
is estimated at $1.5 million (192 man/ months of consultants-engineers and
mid-level technicians-at an average cost of about $7,500 per man/month), and
would be financed under the Technical Assistance Subloan. The draft Law
establishing the CTM was reviewed during negotiations; the signature of this
Law and of the Decree organizing the CTM, and the employment of its Director
would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(b) and (c)).
65.      The National Institute of Standardization (NIS), a semi-public
autonomous agency under the Ministry of National Economy, would be responsible
for establishing and enforcing standards in cooperation with industries. It
would start with a minimum core of about ten technical staff, and would give
priority to the elaboration of EMI standards. The foreign exchange cost of
the foreign specialists' services (30 man/months at about $10,000 per man
month) for the two first years, to be financed under the Technical Assistance
Subloan, are estimated at $0.3 million. The NIS terms of reference, funding,
staff requirements and work program during the first two years of operation
would be agreed with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement Section 3.05). The draft
Law establishing the NIS was reviewed during negotiations; the signature of
this Law, and of the Decree organizing the NIS, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)).
66.      The Effective Protection Study, which would cover manufacturing as
a whole, would focus as a priority on EMI, and would provide the necessary
background for the Bank's dialogue with the Government on the appropriate
levels of protection for EMI. It would be undertaken by the Ali Bach Hamba
Institute, the economic research agency of the Ministry of Planning and
Finance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this study, to
be financed under the Technical Assistance Subloan, would cover EMI as a
first priority, and that its terms of reference, financing plan and staff
requirements would be agreed with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.04(c)).



- 20 -
67.      Protection and Incentives Measures.  A set of policy measures
specifically geared to EMI would be implemented under the project. These would
include protection measures aimed at improving the efficiency and competi-
tiveness of these industries (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04(a)(ii)), and
incentives measures aimed particularly at EMI promoters. With regard to
protection, an agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations
on the details of a program of adjustment of the protection measures related
to the establishment and application of tariff duties ensuring a reasonable
degree of protection for capital and intermediate goods currently produced in
Tunisia. The Government has prepared a list of these goods which should bear
the established tariff duties. This list was reviewed during negotiations,
and an understanding was reached that it would be published by the Ministry
of National Economy, widely distributed, and systematically used by the
authorities responsible for granting import licences and tariff exemptions.
Incentives to industrial promoters to be implemented under the project, and
which would particularly benefit EMI, include revised administrative proce-
dures to streamline the existing system of refunding duties and taxes paid
on inputs used for exports. The revised procedures have been incorporated
in the 1982 Finance Law, and were reviewed during negotiations to the Bank's
satisfaction. In addition, to broaden and expand the use of special credit
facilities, the Government confirmed during negotiations that the permanent
working capital needs of EMI projects would be eligible for medium-term
financing, and that EMI enterprises producing goods included in the list
mentioned above would have access to BCT's suppliers' credit facility
(Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.08). To better publicize the incentives to
EMI promoters, an understanding was reached that the Industrial Promotion
Agency (API) would prepare a booklet summarizing these incentives, to be
published before July 31, 1982.
68.      Subsectoral Studies.  Two subsectors, steel platework and foundry,
have been selected for an in-depth review to define long-term development
strategies, identify economically efficient production lines and investment
programs, and rationalize and specialize production among the various firms.
The study of the steel platework subsector has been commissioned by the
Government to BTKD under terms of reference reviewed by the Bank. The study
of the foundry subsector is being undertaken by Bank consultants. It was
agreed during negotiations that the conclusions and recommendations of these
studies would be reviewed and discussed with the Government by September 30,
1982 (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.04(b)), and an understanding was reached
with BDET that only the subprojects meeting the recommendations of these
studies would be financed under the Bank Loan.
69.      Benefits and Risks.  BDET's minimum two-years (1982-1984) lending
target of $30 million to EMI should result in the financing of projects
totalling investments of about $80 million, representing 20 percent of
projected investments in EMI under the Sixth Plan. This would create about
6,000 jobs at a relatively low average investment cost, and would generate
an output estimated at $45 million per annum, representing about $30 million
in annual foreign exchange savings.
70.      The proposed project would also have a major institution building
effect. The strengthening and improvement of BDET's management and perform-
ance would directly benefit EMI and manufacturing as a whole. The impact of



- 21 -
CTM and NIS, and the implementation of the proposed program of adjustment of
protection and price controls, and of incentive measures to EMI promoters are
expected to bring about significant policy changes which should substantially
increase productivity and product quality of EMI, with a view to making
Tunisia a competitive producer and exporter of engineering goods. The
proposed project would, in addition, allow for a continuing dialogue with
the Government on protection and pricing policies affecting the EMI, a
priority industrial development objective of the Sixth Plan.
71.      A possible risk is that delays may occur in the actual start-up of
the proposed major institutions (CTM and NIS), and in the eventual quality and
effectiveness of their services. This risk is well worth taking in view of the
expected benefits. It will be minimized through close and intensive super-
vision efforts by the Bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Bank and the Republic of Tunisia, and the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special features
of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in the text, and listed in Section
III of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the signature
of the Law establishing, and of the Decree organizing the Technical Center for
Mechanical Industries; (b) the employment of its Director; (c) the signature
of the Law establishing, and of the Decree organizing the National Institute
of Standardization and Quality Control; and (d) the signature of the Technical
Assistance Subloan between BDET and the Government (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 2, 1982



- 22 -                                              ANNEX I
TUNISIA - SoOCIAL INDICATORS DATAPage  1  of  6
TUNISIA                            RESURNCL  GROUPS CWSIATTEDATAS
LAND AREA (THOEUSAND 50. K.)
TOTAL             164.0DLI-NC                                                                S
AGRICULTURAL       76.7                                 MOST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 a1 ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST        LATIN A CER&CA   CARIBSEM
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   220.0       370.0    1120.t*                 865.5                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      173.4        304.2     618.1                 758.3                    1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  4221.0        5127.0    6194.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0          43.5       50.9                  45.2                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHUED                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        25.7         31.3      37.8                  36.3                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      55.0         67.0      78.7                 442.7                      94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-1  YRS.                         43.4         46.2      41.9                  44.2                      40.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.5         50.0      54.5                  52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.1          3.8       3.6                   3.4                       4.0
PUPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
OITAL                               1.8 Ic       l.9/c     2.1*                  2.7                       2.4
URBAN                               3.2          3.8       3.8                   4.6                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.6         38.4      31.0                   41.5                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      18.9         13.8      10.7                   12.8                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.2       2.2                    2.9                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        29.2     180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          10.0      21.3
FOUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0         96.0     112.0                  96.3                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    80.0         88.0     112.0                 110.4                     107.6
PROTEiNS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.0         57.0      73.0                  73.4                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        12.0         14.0      22.0                  17.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.0         18.4      12.5                  14.9                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.6          54.0      58.4                  55.9                     64.1
INFANT MORIALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                      148.011     135.0       90.0                    ..                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..         49.0      70.0                  59.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  83.9                     79.7
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 40.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                ..         62.0        ..                    ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..        100.0        ..                    ..                     75.7
RURAL                                ..         34.0      60.0                    ..                      30.4
POPULATIOUN PER PHYSICIAN         10026.1       5934.0    3576.2                4174.5                   1728.2
POPULATION PEK NURSING PERSON          ..        727.5    1167.8                1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             373.O/e      409.1     427.2                 647.4                    471.2
URBAN 1-                                       290.2     341.4                 547.2                    558.0
RURAL                                ..       1269.3    1273.1                3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         24.1         ..                 25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                ..          5.1  f    6.0
URBAN                                ..          5.1 /f    5.8
RUKAL                                ..          5.1 /f    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          3. 2 f
URBAN                                ..          2.7        ..
RURAL                                *-          3.611
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                                *-         24.0  f      .
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUET                 Page  2  of  6
TUNISIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA 6           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMIERICA E CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0       100.0      100.0                 85.1                    101.7
MALE                 88.0        121.0      116.0                101.5                    103.0
FEMALE               43.0         80.0      83.0                  67.5                    101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  12.0        23.0       30.0                 38.0                     35.3
MALE                  19.0        33.0      38.0                  48.1                     34.9
FEMALE                5.0         13.0      22.0                  28.3                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OP SECONDARY)  24.0         11.0       35.0                 11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            61.0        47.0       39.0                 34.9                     29.6
SECONDARY                          16.0        28.0      30.0                  23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        15.5        24.0/f    62.0                  43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0        13.0       18.3                 18.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         40.3        75.7      147.3                121.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1         9.9      36.2                  37.4                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  19.0        16.0       40.4                 35.9                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..        1.5                  3.0                      3.Z
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1137.9      1214.8    1581.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    6.0         7.7        8.2                 10.5                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0        49.8       35.0                 43.5                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0        21.0      32.0                  27.3                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                27.0        23.7       25.5                 26.4                     31.8
MALE                                 50.2        44.2       46.1                 47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                                3.3         3.6        4.3                  5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.8         2.1        1.8                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       17.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           ..      42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..       15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     204.0                 271.4
RURAL                                ..          ..       97.0                144.6                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      193.0                400.8                    513.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      193.0                290.9                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      20.0                  22.1
RURAL                                ..          ..       15.0                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/e 1962. /f 1966.
*
The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1310.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and
6354 thousand, with a population growth rate of 2.4.



-24 -
ANNEX I
DFNT ONS OFSOCI, INDICATORS                                                    Page    3   of   6
Note. : lAlotough ohs data ore dra   trot eo-re  geteroly judgd ohs no*t ath-tltui-. and reibebtaol   loh   oa   htca  o   o   ainr
ntoaly nopya-bla beo.... of the lank of satardnoei.d defintiona and o...ePt. o.sdb  dlffr.t outIa it  olotg o.dat.   ?ho.at  eta  ton.-
aholee.. u...fIl todee...nIh  ord.. o  agiud,          dioute treade, an  oarntrisetain tajor diftereno... heb- roovria
Tb.h feao  g               IIteaCl  heat trnny group of the aubjeot onotr  ned (2) aontygupwth ennohot higherCorg   inct  that. It  onr   ri
of te eujeogotonry  ltoap  fo   Cuntl oplue oil opor-r` grou  whr   Itdl  Inon - tro N               Afriua and Middle tsar' ieh.s  baon,  f' .trongEr
eni-oloa   ffi ininee   l- I  the rearnn  gop done she averag. are population raighted arunhenip gerefan .a.h indiontor .rd ebo   ony what
ajor iny nt thu   . tootiea It a stoop h.e dona for than Ilittiteto. tite t1he I.ver... of I.u...ie  anon.-    the  rlotr  deed   ttea*tiItof data
and  -ant onifo--, o         -nonne  be ...eroeod in relatIngarge-     f oeidic-tor to enothar.  The ..e. ge  ace onl               f.afuf  lcoten   nh. -e1ca of
ou  idinetor at a tite aton  the o-otry ad oaf erenre# grnupa.
LANtD AslA (th.ucand egha.)                                                                      Pplto   r   optlBo-no)   ta,00tr)-Pplto  (tonal.
Ttl-Tote 1 aifae  re  coPotigCr   oeediln    nar.ubn                                                Mn oa)dntdby tCIe  ynpcoo    ne  o   oeialbt
karEloo -Ira  - tati-tCn feo lnrlae   ed nepreiy  rpertanetly                                   a-atlble In publio and pri-Con  gwra  adisPec inlined hoepita1 and re-
for tro.a Poeurc,   arhe  and hitcher garden  or no It fallow; 1978 dltn.                       abiatinoce-tera.   foepicalI  ar  etb Iih-.nt. pennety                  ffad
by  alee onphyelnia.   tnblbwnepoiig   nnlel  coeno-
lot PtCAITA III%0 -.GM? per canit   atateeattoret noka  pr. nt. ..i                                dial  ar  aret no  "itutdad.  tota  t,oepffala  hoee,iie               at
noleta  by  _at -tva.ion notbhd te told Oath Atlee (1977-79 baaotC ; 0950                        mt sedica-    ete.  o  pentt            nfe   yaphys~i-IaoChit bya
1970, and 1979 data.                                                                              adtonl.. aeignuon, nuree  nidife, ant.) whtnh offer to-patient eco-
dation nnd proolde a liaocwd rEog of nedicaJ fanjIitI... For etutie-
0150Y CONSUMPeTION Pt!CPIA-Afot  oo upIoof oorcalatry (olticll  rnPoetPb..                                                 oeitl.i.l IC_a rrnc1.iPa1lla..ertl hoePitale,
eod lignite. Petroleu., vunuatCl g.edhda,ucoradgoara                          l-anrrabeptllca                                     l o   ue   inytoe and  edioe1 end eater.tiy
ttrinity>  to kilogrEa of on)  qoraen  p nia;19h0. 1970, ad 1979                                 cetra    Pet-ina1d hoepicl-eart inolo1dad-ly undan total.
data.                                                                                          Adtlta..lone      par .setna1 Be  - Tota1l nubor of adeai.n. to ordianbargee
foo  buepitloa   ditidsd by tho titer  f bedo,
POPULATION1 AND VCTAL, STATISTICS
Tonal Pnnolatltn. Ktid-S..art  ....eata d - 0of July 1; 1960. 1977,..nd 1979                 HUINGlil
dote.                                                                                        A-arase ti.n of on-hebldIesc   a    nebad     ttl  urban, and rural -
Utbn  IPonlat!in  (minuet of notal) -Rtni  of urban to totalpp1           ein                    A 1,honehald untt  ofogru f id.oo~daawo ehr   ton   at..e
di,fforet definttio        ofubnoae-y aff.tc  noera-bility of data                              n   harto  anale.   At dro  oge   a   rtytnbe tcludd it
enong.. ontrite; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dane.                                                    tha honeahald tof eaC     aio   pu-n--e
Panalation Projanni.ne                                                                         Anaroewte  o.f nroepr  oekoal   ra,anCua    AnaregaS nI--
Po-talatine in vee  2007 - Currant PoPulation proJeotine are hae  on d      19i0               hto   ten   e   onO   l   ra.tdrm    cuidctanna
ttlppulentrn hy . ag  end  -tad thair notality and f-oilitytatat.fdPeCotge  repetowC._   Ottl ton  sc lode  o-.pere dn e--uture  an
yrnjecnlan pureatnre fa  mrtlinyrea cap Iaof tbnelveteeam                                     gc road parts.-.d
Lng life enpeananoy atfbirth incrneigntbonnnye  e  othitt in- na                          A..e. to,: flortooCrrnoo   tline                    na,ubn   n   oa
teeeforfattiY rt   la   aeobe   eel euing duolica In                                     of total.  rhao. and rural dotIli, nonrepecti-e1y.
fnrnilitYa...ording 0  Inon -lve  an  pattily plotting perfora- ..                                                               t~t 
tach on0nty It then aeeignd on  of nthee nbo  nonhinatinta Of aNa.ilt,y                 EIUCATIOt
and fertility trenda for projetiow_.C    _r      p:orpee           eAdluat E fo1n1noo  Ratia
ChtatIonary    ttluioT:-f.tneter dtner  popolartdon. ther  Se notot  crePter   tol- oa    al   n   eel      r    total. _1m ta  f_nel
nh_ hrb  ae  a  qain  te  ethntYteda e                                                                  Ib   g   titr   e  nnlot of al a te antba pntr   anla   eo-tgeohreat
tome tpaen to 1_ Tia _e nohe-d only after frn.IlIny roe   eln oPrimary echoo-age  Papilti-nt7= 1tlt  incldae7 ctldrn  age  h-i
nb  r-lCatn d    olo  unth. net rattnin  ae   hneahgnr tn                                     wr tt eYC.bl dCu-td far different 1nngthe of pri-Yrpdocati-t; tnt
of,ae   raiana Inaf e-utlY.  Thtaaior  popultion eIenecut r   ibuiaeleoaiwarlnn   a   ned 100 o6roen
eaCeedo   hehee ofm h Cth  Crojectd cherernariatice of the  -- roo lati..n etriaa 1te  p                        iptle ar dbl , r  tal thw ofIcti_ ._ enl age
in cht yea  liii. nodthe rent  f dclIne of farttliny rant.n   elc-boatreho  tonal,PaltPan  t                                   h.a ' -  hpo    t   hoe  acndr
Tear   ..b- etulo   hdyroulaio  Ie reeched -Th. year abtetciotory population                    pvide g. eu,ncnut                 rmce  trainingC-    CinetruoIone for ptik
P-iea hae benrabd                                                                                cal   f 12 no 17 ye..e ofagetreepneoenuaeacgntty
Pnr an  be.-  Mi-ya ;populajtion yn  equera kilotoa  (100 hootoreeC  of                        -neioonl  ord le.         Cnsten  of     ...P.ro  -tocni...i.tto Iln
toa 6e    0 lh, 197  an 979 dana.                                                        inld    ebie,i aru,n   nbrporn   hc   pot   need
Pe ke . ....ricultutel lad - C-'utd .   abv   o   giclua   et                                 el   ra  dprnueofecneytetoto
only; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dana.    -dtll-nennharoacla -tr...maro. end                                                                   . e PCdr-Ttlaod oeroldi
64  oerC.  adrtrd065y ..are and ove) e  ponenage  ofaidyou.pui- aora,einglale
ate;1960. 1970, ted 1979 dan.t   d                                                         Adultf dy.CPP.  "-Y litrac y tare  f diercent)   -Lnrn ut  Ca..   t  rend--   andwi.)
Powaltior inoo hotlncatR               oal-Aoalgot  rteoIonled                                     aa-p-ditgeo.           oalautpa,aia   gd15yaen   vr
p-naie   90   1970, eat 1979        19data.. tilnnr   v                                                   fehidltcltee.d15y.C
Crude Booth gate (too thannd)  A-    leena  t bithe par  thaneat d of nit-yea..,l godeivera lee Sth edprlno)-Alypefrnneefrrai
poolrin;190   97. and 1979 dana.                                                                hra"aeo   enrlpb                 ottoetdo  prynltint; tenlde  o-t
irota  awrudution sth-AaaragA--1odbtr of  agthre   wn ilheri                                 Icoee  rehirae  n  nuto.   enXnpaawe  ra heraiw   o  rdi
ilinrente  eanll  fv-year9 aveag,  etngI  1960  197, -at,-9                             tags!oi o'Yte  aholie      d   PIcPeig
tility t ....   -11, fP od  f  b.                                      polintotdonod   riarlytorentin   gewalns_                       n  n-Pnidra
laden of mad Prouction ner Capit  (1969-71111  - 6Oden  gof  a  capit  anelIteodnu  Atnac                          at  ra  Ya-  bae  an the bl nohe .o
proucionofel  fod   tettie.Prouciontelawa  ne  an  fte  an                         nohao nS  duin    naer.ioaigdla                     etori-nouC`ai
.ia on lcdlotar yea               ..n. .nattea o   pri- ary g        fd .... egaCan            eT.  not,   unite
mfed  fene)  hchnnhdhl   n  conaineu-iafe (.g oltt- foe end1                                                                       0      V                b--%t
tee are  dnc buted)   Ataaaeane oroaina o  enobnoo try           . If hee t non           talon 101d00l
eatimeal ereraga prtdnrer prine4   ...g.ta  1916,C7,td17   aa                         oa  Labo  Forc         Y-osadC. -tnalu           cieprna   nldn
Ido e                                                                                             bali-nl  fnloialaro   froirnne       optdf o  re   oneat C e.y I hot a ditig  Som...int,  Pttat. ci.,i.
energy        CdI e Iovaen  of  et i noIupinaalbei  oar   e   anacvrn    oueiao   l   ge    etite   nnr                                                      t cannt..iae    ..re
pawday   Avilblenaplie   onprae  anoti  prtocin. lport lentotonearata  190.  970er  199 dna
eparne.t-I end  fbaeei  en         Net  -apln  entdt  aImalp-n-,  tet.,                       ol   rret  -Pl-ta   oc  a   ecnaeo  t llbrioo
qaattie  et n  on  preeim,  es  ocecindttibtin.laore        Ariolot  eaceg)-laorfac  in fatis  feet,d anig  n
neat eat ntiaad  y 7k  head  e pyailognal  ..oe fr nrto  ani-  febig n  puratge o  toal  aha  fnre:1960  190 ed 179  ete
mop  tt  ealh mandeingaevroaanaltwaatoa   ody  oigta,egeIntkete,  -ldardint  - ao   oc2                    t lngLontutn.tonetre
netea  datnbttn  f  oplatna  ed  llreng10peoattn,  tat  t            ntelntinty,weoren  ge  c  erenageoftoallaarfot.  160
quirnemna fo  all canerie  antalntbetby lil  peovie f o  noons                   peroanagee  f tonl, aleeat feale paolatin nf al agedteepilivaIy
alloesc  ofC     re   ftnlpounprdyad2   rt   faia  o                                       19hi, 1970, an  199dt,    enatbes  nOOepricano   on
ptlarwnn   f  tt_0gn.eoudb   ntltan ,Taaeed rCfen in ae-t ainrnueo th                                                           haypepelattIt. not lngtime ttetd.-
ttr    oo  hny; If'1916,90 anst1977 ..  170dane;   dt.                                Tto    b. the  - tonal labor fot.
tries tao derive  trot lie neblen  1960. 170 and 179 dunn.of honabald.;  90   90.d17   .
eq   tb  1960. _d1910 ed 07  dana                                                             ant. IIahfwldf.d  -d  beC.t -r l nt brpretet  withranit tab . tni.Iftt.I
ate,  pr tioatd liehiy   o                                                             Ageri       oan  it    aIn   ht   oalvlblw  ht      iie
litfp   pt  teol  avbe,           orgl C   Oahy  rsenhl   anene t e
atY.."natefo   ttntd   esee,erng.oteata b h...                             ) -ne            lanai . relorive        Ifvrty Iote  oe   .ua-hr   faeeg   a  .p
ditaaea  t hib    nptitppti         eteIf"It at         nrhtoOwen   . ..bi.t                                           tIewldoeo   b  rnr.b firba  level  19e torv d trot9aedrura
eaanhld n11 nal  mpytense70               sifaorar   of the7bd1asholdfat rural - Panrat1 of  aplto(aboedoa)shav    bmoe
-t -PPY If  ..d    eerePd of nenoln  Cotal, urbanf P.- total99 -t,
the eallentian  iSepteal. 00th on vithena greeteat, of hm  earth                                                      I contain end gondhal CWBone IlCiai e
6 te-eerb  an-fte    ytao  the1P        sot ofd ..  aiSrnseat_ il                                                    fonatnir  taly Ie nod Pmojtwiots Bpe-ta
Car Stot*llttito.                                                                                                                        ey  ose-.i.  it
t  -Popsaloelam      I divide   byTh ...of. pwen.iditg pobyai-
-1-1 pt.Col  nhulat  nieel3 levIft.oIl.PO--l...  I.    _   td
a.le  at. taletiraeets wet. poent                                                                                                                -d area,eatdae5ineto  we



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDTCATORS
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                Annual Growth Rates
(million US$                   Actual (at 1972 prices)         Actual"          Projected (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                            at current prices)
1980                    1976    1977    1978    1979         1980     1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /2                    8,493.8                   7.4      4.3      8.3     7.6        7.3      6.4      6.4     6.6      6.5      6.3
Agriculture                               1,211.4                    5.2    -7.5      8.9      0.5       8.6       5.0      5.0     4.5      4.0     4.0
Induatry                                  2,579.8                    7.8      7.0     9.2    11.9        7.6       6.8      7.0     8.0      8.0     7.5
Services                                  3,512.6                    5.4      5.8     7.7      8.2       6.7       6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5     6.4
Consumption                                  6,400.0                   8.8      9.5     9.3      7.1        6.9      6.7      8.8     6.9      5.(     6.6
Gross investment                            2,345.7                   16.9      5.8     6.6      8.7       0.5       8.4      3.8     6.1      5.7     5.4
Exports of goods and NFS                     3,444.4                   9.6      5.6     9.1    18.8         9.4      4.2      3.1     3.7      9.7     8.9
Imports of goods and NFS                    3,696.3                   19.3    16.5      9.6    14.4        3.9       6.4      6.0     4.3      5.6     8.5
Gross national product                       8,437.0                   6.0      4.8     9.2      8.0        6.3      6.5      6.5     6.5      6.4     6.2
Gross national savingn                       2,037.0                  -6.3    -1.7    21.2    35.8          6.3      4.9    -2.0      5.0    12.9       5.9
PRICES
GDP defLator                                                         137.7   151.4   158.6   174.2        190.3       -        -       -        -       -
Exchange rate                                                          2.33    2.33    2.40    2.46         2.47      -        -       -        -        -
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                                Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices)                                      (at constant pricee)
1970      1975       1980       1986      1991            1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1981-86        1986-1
Gross domestic product                100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0               8.5         7.0         6.5        6.5           5.8
Agriculture                        16.7       18.2      14.3       12.7       11.1               8.8         1.0        4.5         4.2          3.0
Industry                           20.5       27.1      29.5       31.2       32.8               9.0         7.5        7.5         7.7          6.8
Services                           49.3      42.7       42.2       42.2      42.2                8.7         6.0        6.5         6.5          5.8
Consumption                            84.8       75.5       70.0      70.8       71.8               8.6         8.3        6.8         6.6          6.2
Gronss investment                      19.7       29.3       28.3      27.2       25.4              11.8         6.8         5.7        5.4          4.3
Exports of goods and NFS               21.9       31.3       38.5      35.9       33.3              12.5         9.7         5.7        6.9          5.1
Imports of goods and NFS               26.4       36.1      41.4       40.3       38.7              11.3        12.1         5.9        5.9          5.1
Gross national product                 97.9       99.9       99.5      99.3       97.9               8.7         7.0         6.4        6.4           5.5
Net factor income                       2.1        0.1       0.5        0.7        1.9                -           -           -          -            -
Gross national savings                 13.2       24.3       23.6      21.8       18.9               7.5         5.9                    2.2
As X GDP
(at current prices)
1970      1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                             23.5      25.7       27.2
Current expenditure                                        20.4       19.9       18.5
Surplus ('-) or deficit (-)                                  3.1       5.9        8.6
Capital expenditure                                         9.5       10.8       14.8
Foreign financing                                            5.0       1.8        1.3
1970-75         1975-80         1980-85         1981-86         1986-91
OTHER INDICATORS
CNP growth rate (X)                                           8.7             7.0             6.4             6.3             9.5
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                                6.3             4.4             4.0             4.0             3.1
ICOR                                                          2.6             3.6             4.4             4.4             4.6
Marginal savings rate                                        30.5            17.6            20.1            27.8             8.2
Import elasticity                                             1.24            1.81            0.91            0.91            0.89
/1 1980 data at 1979 prices.
/2 GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA cP 2C
Decemher 1981



-26.A X 
* 26~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg *                               of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.4 millior. (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amounit                                                   Annual arowth Ratee
(million US$                     Actual (at 1972 price.)         Actuell             Projected (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                              at current pricee)
1980                      1976    1977    1978    1979    1980           1981     1982     1983    1984       1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                             2,282.9                     5.8    -5.0      16.0    10.1        3.9       1.5      0.2      0.9    10.8        9.5
Crude oil                                    1,168.5                   -15.0       1.9    14.0    91.3    11.0         -4.5    -7.8    -6.6    -1.6            -
Other primary                                  207.9                     21.8   -17.9      34.7    10.0        .4       5.8       2.7      2.6      2.5       2.5
Manufactures                                   906.5                    37.2    -1.5       21.9    14.8       1.6       7.3      6.9      6.4    20.9 /2  15.9 /2
Merchandise imports                             3,340.7                    13.6    30.4       5.5     11.7       1,9       6.4      6.0      4.1      5.6       8.7
Food                                           422.4                   -13.5     25.5    11.1       22.2      2.7       6.0      2.9      5.0       3.3       4.8
Petroleum                                      662.0                   -24.8    -8.5    -3.9        25.7      3.0       9.9    14.2    -3.5       36.9 /2  23.3 /2
Machinery and equipment                        765.7                    19.1       2.4      5.2   -11.0    -1.3         3.8      6.5      6.1       5.7       5.4
Others                                       1,490.6                     31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1       3.2       6.6      3.4       6.1      6.1       5.9
Price Index                                  Price Index /3
PRICES
Export price index                                 -                   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9   128.0    135.7   148.1   161.0   177.3    193.9
Import price index                                -                    163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6   115.3    128.2   141.4   153.7   166.8    181.3
Term. of trade index (1972-100)                    -                   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3   139.0    138.0   136.4   136.6   138.5    139.3
(1979-100)                                         -        -        -        -    106.7    105.9   104.7   104.8   106.3    106.9
Composition of Merchandise Trede (8)                                  Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current price)                                           (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1980       1981     1986    1991              1970-75     1975-80      1980-85     1981-86       1986-91
Exports                                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                     11.6         9.4          4.2         5.5           2.9
Crude oil                            24.5    41.8    51.1    49.3    35.0    29.0                     23.2         3.0         -4.1        -3.8          -3.5
Other primary                        21.2    18.0       9.1      9.2       7.0      6.0                6.7         2.n          3.2          3.0          3.0
Manufactures                         54.3    40.2    39.8    41.5    58.0    65.0                      6.2        14.3         11.2        12.0           5.5
imports                                 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                     13.4         12.4         5.8          5.9           5.1
Food                                 20.6    15.8    12.6    13.6    13.6    12.9                      8.9         7.5          4.2         4.2           4.4
Petroleum                             4.0      9.8    19.7    20.5    24.4    25.2                    36.5        23.2          8.0         7.6           4.1
Machinery and Equipment              23.0    30.2    22.8    21.8    20.7    19.5                     15.7         8.3          5.7          5.7          4.4
Others                               52.4    44.2    44.8    44.1    41.3    42.4                     10.6        13.2          5.5          5.7          6.1
Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with                        Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (?)              Developing Countries (X)               Capital Surplus Oil Exporters ()
1970      1975      1980              1970      1975      1980                    1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                     62.6      48.6      74.1              23.4       41.4       n.e.                   14.0    10.0       ns.a.
Imports                                     62.9      67.1      73.5              33.7      25.7        n.a.                    3.4      7.2      s.a.
/1  1980 data at 1979 prices.
/2  Increase in refining capacity.
/3  For 1981-85, export and import price index is based on 1979-100.
E14ENA CP 2C
December 1981



- 27 -
AMEX8 I
Page6 of 6
BALAUCE OF PAYUTB. EXTfIUL CAPITAL NltD DEBT
(million UsS ,t cl t picas)
Popultion:  6.4 million (uid-1980)
GNP per Capita: $1,120 (1979)
Actual                                                  Projected
1970      1975      1978       1979      1980            1981      1982      1983       1986      1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services                -104.5    -208.8   -599.7   -478.5   -296.5              -463.6   -718.9       874.7  -1,040.9  -2,728.0
Exports of goods & services                  355.6   1,529.2   2,090.6   2,913.9   3,825.1          4,363.4   4,877.5   5,458.9   8,440.5  14,106.6
Imports of goods & services                  460.1   1,738.0   2,690:3   3,392.4   4,121.6          4,827.0   5,596.4   6,333.6   9,481.4  16,838.6
Nat transfers /1                                53.0       47.4      33.6       31.0      25.6            26.0      26.1      26.1       26.2      11.3
Current account balance                        -51.5    -161.4   -566.1   -447.5   -270.9               -437.6   -692.8   -848.6  -1,014.7  -2,716.7
Direct private investment                       25.5       50.2      91.1      164.8      95.0           200.0     250.0     300.0      450.0     724.7
MLT loans (net)                                 43.4      124.5     468.6      438.0     399.1           325.8     539.0     640.7      688.5   2,200.2
Official                                      41.7      102.9      84.8     318.8      436.0           379.2     433.3     375.3      345.3     379.5
Private                                        1.7       21.6      83.8     162.2      -36.9          -53.4      105.7     265.4      343.2   1.820.5
Other capital                                    2.0      -10.4      41.4     -22.6      -83.7              -         -         -          -         -
Change in reserves                             -19.4       -2.9     -35.0    -132.7    -139.9           -90.6       96.2     -92.1    -123.8    -208.1
International reserves                          15.4      362.2     269.9     402.3      542.2          632.8      728.9     821.1   1,214.6   2,134.3
Reserves as months of imports                    0.4        2.4       1.3        1.4       1.6             1.6       1.6        1.6       1.5       1.5
Actual                                                  Projec ted
1975      1978      1979       1980           1981       1982      1983      1986       1991
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                 43.0       50.2      32.7       50.7      74.6            25.0      25.0      25.0       25.0      10.0
Gross disbursements of MLT losos                86.8      193.3     556.7      746.1     652.6          635.1      865.7   1,032.5   1,459.0   3,358.0
Concessional                                    45.2      100.1     184.5      193.2     407.2           349.8     341.3     288.4      220.6     246.2
Bilateral                                     41.3       82.0     175.1     179.0      308.9          265.5      271.8     239.3      169.6     186.6
IDA                                            2.9      12.6        1.8       0.2        1.5            1.1         .5        .2        -          -
Other multilateral                             1.0        5.5       7.6      14.0      106.8           83.2       69.0      48.9       50.9      59.6
Non-concessional                                41.6       93.7     372.2      552.9     235.4           285.3     524.4     744.1   1,238.4   3,739.8
Private                                       31.1       51.3     321.3     431.9      122.2          112.8      308.2     499.5     856.0   3,111.8
Official export credits                        1.3       15.0       6.1        5.0      15.8            52.3      59.1      67.7      107.4     150.0
IBRD                                           9.2       26.9      33.0      55.4       62.3           98.1      134.1     149.6     145.8      186.6
Other multilateral                              -          -       11.7      60.6       35.1            22.1      23.0      27.3      129.2     291.4
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                  540.9   1,034.4   2,409.2   3,053.2   3,452.4          3.778.2   4,317.2   4,957.0   6,763.6  14,896.4
Official                                     367.0      858.6   1,583.4   1,864.2   2,300.2         2,679.4   3,112.7   3,488.0   4,473.9   6,490.2
IBRD                                        26.3     109.8      189.4     232.0     281.3           361.4     473.0    'i95.3      862.1   1,192.3
IDA                                         16.2      55.3       67.4      67.3      68.4            69.0      68.7       68.1      65.3       58.2
Other                                      224.5      693.5   1,326.6   1,564.9   1,950.5         2,249.0   2,571.0   2,824.6   3,546.5   5,239.7
Private                                      173.9      175.8     825.8   1,189.0   1,152.2         1,098.8   1,204.5   1,470.0   2,289.6   8,406.2
Undisbursed debt                               307.0      741.3   1,794.4   1,773.8   1,532.2          1,451.1   1,372.8   1,445.3   2,820.5   2,925.3
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                     63.1      101.3     214.5      311.6     460.4           522.2     545.3     635.4   1,129.2   2,657.2
Interest                                      17.8      35.0       96.1     159.5      206.9          212.9      218.6     243.6     358.7      871.3
Payments as 1 exports                           17.7        6.6      10.2       9.9       12.0            12.0      11.2      11.6       13.4      18.8
Payments as % GNP                                4.4        2.4       3.6       4.3        4.4            4.3        4.2       4.4       4.5        4.1
Average ioterest rate of new Loans ()            3.4        3.9       7.1        7.3       5.6             6.8       7.3       7.7        7.9       7.7
Official                                       2.7        3.3       4.4        5.6        -              -          -         -          -         -
Private                                        6.3        6.7       8.9      11.1         -              -          -         -          -         -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)           26.6       24.2      14.5      17.0       26.1           19.6       15.6      13.7      13.1        9.8
Official                                      31.2       27.1      21.0      20.1         -              -          -         -          -         -
Private                                        9.2        9.1      10.0      10.1         -
As I of Debt Outstanding
st End of Host Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (I)
Amortization due within 5 years                                        54.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                       98.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (I)
Interest due within first year                                          6.8
/1 Including grants.
EMENA CP 2C
December 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX I I
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30,1981)
USS Million
Loan or                                                                                                   Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                    Cancellation)
Number       Year            Borrower                          Purpose                           Bank       IDA c/      Undisbursed
Twenty-seven Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                  187.50      60.47
238         1971     Republic of Tunisia                Population                                          4.80          0.65
858 d/      1972     Republic of Tunisia                Tourism Infrastructure                  14.00                     0.10
937         1973     Republic of Tunisia                Urban Planning and Public
Transportation                         11.00                     0.37
1042 d/      1974     Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA             Pho-sphate Development                 23.30                     0.87
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Rehabilitation               12.20                     3.30
1088         1975     Republic of Tunisia                Urban Sewerage                          28.00                     4.97
1155         1975     Republic of Tunisia                Third Education                          8.60                     6.67
1188         1975     Republic of Tunisia                 Second Highways                        28.00                    18.39
238-1        1976     Republic of Tunisia                Population                                          4.80          0.76
1340         1976     Banque Nationale de Tunisie        Second Agricultural Credit              12.00                     ?.42
1355 d/      1976     Societd Tunisienne de
l'Electricit& et du Gaz           Second Power                            14.50                     0.10
1431         1977     Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Development                  42.00                   l1.37
1445         1977     SONEDE                             Fourth Water Supply                     21.00                    13.53
1504         1977     BDET                               Development Finance Company             30.00                     3.99
1505         1977     Republic of Tunisia                Small-Scale Industrial Project           5.00                     2.62
1601         1978     Republic of Tunisia                Rural Roads (Third Higbways)            32.00                    28.16
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia                Second Urban Sewerage                   26.50                    25.80
1702         1979     Societd Nationale
d'Exploitation d'Eau               Fifth Water Supply                     25.00                    14.66
1705         1979     Republic of Tunisia                Second Urban Development                19.00                    18.54
1746         1979     Republic of Tunisia                Second Fisheries                        28.50                    26.83
1796         1980     Republic of Tunisia                Southern Irrigation                     25.00                    24.84
1797         1980     Office des Ports Nationaux         Third Port                              42.50                    25.24
1841         1980     Republic of Tunisia                Fourth Highways                         36.50                    36.50
1864         1980     Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz            Second Natural Gas Pipeline            37.00                    37.00
1885         1980     Banque Nationale de Tunisie        Tbird Agricultural Credit               30.00                    29.25
1961         1981     Republic of Tunisia                Fourth Education                        26.00                    26.00
1969 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Small-Scale industry Development    30.00                        30.00
1997 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Northwest Rural Development             24.00                    24.00
2003 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Third Power                             41.50                    41.50
2005 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Health and Population                   12.50                    12.50
2012 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Textile Rehabilitation                  18.60        _           18.60
TOTAL                                                                    891.70      70.07        493.53
Of which has been repaid                                                  88.26       5.75
Total now outstanding                                                    803.44      64.32
Amount Sold                                14.33
of which has been repaid                 12.40                            1.93
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                        801.51      64.32
Total Undisbursed                                                        492.12       1.41        493.53
a/ This list does not include a loan of $42 million for a Grain Storage project
approved by the Board on October 6, 1981.
b/ Not yet effective
cl Prior to exchange adjustment
d/ Fully disbursed since September 30, 1981.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of  9
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISTA (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount in US* Million
Year       Obligator                              Type of Business           Joan   Equity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                Fertilizers                 2.0     1.5       3.5
1966   Societe Nationale dr Investissement        Development Finance Co.             0.6       n.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                            Development Finance Co.   8.0       2.2      10.2
1970   Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                         Development Finance Co.              0.6      0.6
1973   SocLite Touristinue & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                   Tourism                     1.6      0.3      1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                           Tourism                     2.5      0.7      3.2
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Chemicals                           0.6       0.6
1978   BDET                                       Development Finance ro.             1.2       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                              14.1      7.7      21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                 7 7.9    1.9       Q.8
Total commitments now held by TFC                                     6.2      5.8     1?.n
Total undisbursed                                                              0. n.o



- 30 -                             Annex II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238:        Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness; December 29, 1971; Closing Date;
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project;  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
_NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The undisbursed
loan balance on February 24, 1982 was $110,453.  Payments are being made on
amounts committed prior to the closing date.
Ln. 858:        Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness; June 29, 1973;
Closing Date; December 31, 1980.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance ($96,940)
was cancelled on November 24, 1981.
Ln. 937:        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432;        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October
5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The
undisbursed loan balance on February 24, 1982 was $365,575. Payments are
being made on amounts committed prior to the closing date.
Ln. 1042:       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date ot Effectiveness; March 14, 1975; Closing Date;
December 31, -1981.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance
($105,930) was cancelled on February 26, 1982.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage
and road networks in the Medjerda area continues to be satisfactory. However,
l/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                            Annex II
Page 4 of 9
farmers have not fully used the available facilities due to limited
distribution hours, lack of on-farm development and poor extension. Land
reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been satisfactorily
completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities was less than
originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not built because
of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was to construct
and manage it, and because drought in the area reduced production. Land
consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by mid-1982, and
production of off-season vegetables under greeenhouses is encouraging.
Ln. 1088;       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity (ONAS). As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated
sewerage. Consultants financed under the project have produced a land-use
plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
Ln. 1155:      Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended to
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped under the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and as planned in the
revised schedule. There was a slight delay of about three months in
construction, but the procurement of furniture and equipment is running
ahead of schedule. The final bid documents for the extension of the five
teacher training colleges have been received and are now under awarding
procedures. All major covenants have been met.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been completed.
Construction is almost complete on the Hammamet-Korba road in Nabeul. The



-32 -                            Annex II
Page 5 of 9
remaining construction works on other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax
by-pass under Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of expropriation
has been deleted from the project. All studies under the project have been
completed and their results are being implemented.
Ln. 1340:      Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date; December 31, 1982.
About 81 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed by the
Government or by the Third Agricultural Credit project. Categories 2 and 4
(subloans to commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors) are fully
disbursed. Category 1 (subloans to small and medium farmers) are expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1982. Disbursements for Category 3
(subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations) have begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in
progress and plantation is also progressing satisfactorily. However,
drilling of artesian wells is suffering some delays.
Ln. 1355:      Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1981l.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance
($93,349.98) was cancelled on October 20, 1981.
Ln. 1431:      Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule to
catch the 1981/82 flood season. The new railroad is now completed and in
commercial service. After some initial delays, construction of the
Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding more rapidly, and
completion by end 1983 seems possible. A 6 kms section was commissioned in
June 1981, permitting the supply of additional water to Tunis during the
peak consumption period. First irrigation of the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter
is expected in April 1982.
Ln. 1445:      Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the project
is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule.



- 33 -                            Annex II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been made by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces.
Progress on the complementary agricultural component, after an initial
delay, is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Government wishes to expand
the project to cover three additional provinces. This is under
consideration.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is procee-
ding. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule.  SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement for the project is now completed and works under all project
contracts are proceeding rapidly.  Laying of the piping system of the
production facilities included in the project has been completed.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The physical works of the project both in Tunis and Sfax are progressing
satisfactorily, with about 35% of works completed. Technical studies for



- 34 -                             Annex II
Page 7 of 9
the solid waste collection and disposal component is progressing well. The
housing component is progressing slowly and experiencing cost overruns due
to technical difficulties associated with the sites in Jebel Lahmar and to
slow acquisition of sites in Saida Manoubia and in Cimer Nord.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness:  May 14, 1980; Closing Date;
June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded and
construction is well underway at most sites and general progress is
satisfactory.  Detailed design for the boat hulls has been completed and
procurement is underway. Bid awards for boat engines have been made.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project and borings are underway at several sites. A contract
has been awarded for supply of asbestos-cement pipes to be used in
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in existing oases.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date ot Ettectiveness: June 25, 17980; Closing Date: June
iO  _= 5.
The physical execution of the project at La 3oulette is now
progressing well. Dredging of the channel and of the new basin area has
been completed. The reclamation at the new port area behind the project
quay line is under way. The casting yard for concrete quay caissons has
become operational. As a result of initial delays in starting the dredging
operations, the civil works are about 5 months behind schedule. At Sfax,
the contracts for civil works were awarded in July 1980. Dredging started
in October 1980 but works were delayed on the landward side until the
shipyards and the fishing port were removed to their new locations in late
February 1981. Further problems have developed in connection with the
innovative casting technique: heated concrete blocks showed cracks through
testings and the causes are being investigated by the contractor which has
deferred further casting. This will add to the 9 months delay from which
civil works in Sfax have already suffered. Supervision is working
satisfactorily in both ports. Training programs for port workers have been
prepared.
Ln. 1841;       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well; the 1981 construction
program is underway.   Elements of the 1982 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have been discussed and agreed with the Government, and the 1982
action plan is being implemented.



35 -                             Annex II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. 1864:        Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has
been redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute for premium liquid
fuel products.
Ln. 1885:        Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agro-industries. The loan became effective after one extension of the
original date of April 30, 1981. Disbursements are expected to start
immediately for those purposes where Agricultural Credit II is already
overcommitted (commercial farmers, producer cooperatives and
agro-industries).
Ln. 1961:        Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily,
with assistance from the ILO. The first phase of construction has already
been tendered. All the final lists of furniture and equipment have been
completed and the programs reviewed. Technical assistance to aid in
reinforcement of the management, logistics and programs of the network of
vocational centers is under negotiation.
Ln. 1969:        Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tlunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal capacity of the Investment Promotion Agency.



- 36 -                            Annex II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural   velopment Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, S191 Planned Date of Effectiveness; April 30, 1982;
Closing Date; September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the Government's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region by
concentrating on the establishment of institutions which could implement the
program, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock development
services. The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil
conservation and forestry activities, together with productive
infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003;       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15  1981;
Planned Date of Effectiveness,:April 30, 1982; Closing Date;
December 31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network and improving the supply
of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005;       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of July
15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 2192
closing Date; December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train project personnel.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness; February 25,
1982; Closing Date; December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of a rehabilitation and modernization program for the public sector
textile industry. It would expand and improve production so as to enhance
competitiveness in export markets.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals; and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system of
collection, storage and transport of domestic grain.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project:                                  About 12 months (from June 1980
to June 1981)
(b) The agency which prepared the project:         Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie and
ministry of National
Economy
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:        December 1979
(d) First Bank mission to review project:         June 1980
(e) Departure of appraisal missions:               June 3, 1981
(f) Negotiations completed:                        February 16, 1982
(g) Loan Effectiveness planned:                    July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
The terms of reference of the Effective Protection Study will be
satisfactory to the Bank, and the conclusions and recommendations of this
study relating to EMI will be reviewed and discussed with the Bank (para. 66).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) For effectiveness: (i) the signature of the Law establishing, and of the
Decree organizing the Technical Center for Mechanical Industries; (ii) the
employment of its Director (para. 64); (iii) the signature of the Law
establishing, and of the Decree organizing the National Institute of
Standardization and Quality Control (para. 65); and (iv) the conclusion
between BDET and the Government of the Technical Assistance Subloan to
finance the foreign exchange cost of consultants' services assistance
required under the project (para. 62);
(b) BDET will review annually its interest rates with the Government, and will
take the necessary measures to ensure an adequate profit margin, and the
Government will make adequate arrangements to ensure that BDET achieves
and maintains the required profit margin as soon as possible without
Government financial support (para. 56);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Government will implement a set of incentive measures affecting EMI
development (para. 67);
(d) Government will adopt and implement a program of adjustments of protection
and of price controls in view of a progressive liberalization of imports
of EMI capital and intermediate goods (para. 67);
(e) BDET will allocate a minimum $30 million to EMI, of which two-thirds for
priority EMI subsectors, during a two-year period (July 1982-June 1984)
(para. 57).



