Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE I)NLY
Report N,s 3689-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TUNISIA
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL IN)USTRIES PROJECT
March 2, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar (D)
US$1 = D 0.5
DI = US$2.0
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        African Development Bank
APB        Association Professionelle des Banques
API        Agence de Promotion des Investissements
BCT        Banque Centrale de Tunisie
BDET       Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BTKD       Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Ddveloppement
CNEI       Centre National des Etudes Industrielles
COFIT      Compagnie Financiere du Tourisme
DFC        Development Finance Corporation
EIB        European Investment Bank
EMIs       Electrical and Mechanical Industries
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FRR        Financial Rate of Return
KfW        Kreditantestalt fur Wiederanfbau
MNE        Ministry of National Economy
SIAT       Societe d'Investissement Arabe de Tunisie
SSIs       Small-Scale Industries
STUSID     Societe Tuniso-Saoudienne d'Investissement et de
Developpement



FOR OFFICIAL USE GIXJLY
TUNISIA
THE ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTElITS
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ................ * ....................           1
II.  THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR ..........................            2
A. Recent Performance.                                       2
B.  The Sixth Development Plan ..................            3
C.  Issues and Constraints ......................            3
D.  Prospects and Priorities .....................           6
III.  THE EMI SUBSECTOR .........................,.,,                7
A.  Structure and Characteristics.                           7
B.  Subsectoral Patterns and Potential                       8
C.  Trade and Demand for EMI Goods .10
D.  Market Prospects and Developmnent
Strategy for the EMIs .11
E. The Sixth Plan and the Pipeline of
EMI Projects .12
F.  Sectoral Issues and Constraits .14
IV.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ITS ROLE ON EMIs                     18
V.  BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE (BDET)          22
A.  Structure Organization and Procedures                   22
B. Operations .24
C. Quality of BDET's Portfolio .25
D. Financial Performance .27
E.  Projected Operations and Finance .28
F.  Resource Requirements .......................           29
VI. THE PROJECT ................                                   31
A. Financial Assistance .32
B.  Technical Assistance to EMIt ................           35
C.  Incentive Framework for EMIs .39
D.  Sectoral Studies ...........................           41
E.  Project Benefits and Risks.           .                 41
This report was prepared by Messrs. Jean-Frangois Landeau, Fran.ois Ettori,
Ms. Khanh Nguyen and Mr. Cesare Calari. Mr. Harry Choi, Consultanc,
accompanied the Appraisal mission in June 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont.)                                             Page No.      A
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .43
A. General Features of the Loan .43
B. Agreements and Understandings to be
reached during Negotiations concerning
the Proposed Loan to BDET .43
C. Agreements and Understandings to be
reached during Negotiations concerning
the technical assistance arrangements                  44
D. Agreements and Understandings to be
reached during Negotiations concerning
Policy Measures for EMIs ..................            45
Annexes
Annex  1:  Economic Trends under the Fifth Plan (1977-81)
Annex  2:  Actual and Optimal Structure of Manufacturing in Tunisia
Annex  3:  Subproject Pipeline in EMIs in the Sixth Plan (1982-86)
Annex  4:  Structure of Tariff Duties on EMI Products
Annex  5:  BDET:  Organization Chart, July 1, 1981
Annex  6:  BDET:  Summary of Operations 1977-80
Annex  7:  BDET:  Analysis of Approved Operations 1977-80
Annex  8:  BDET:  Outstanding Loans and Equity Investments
as of December 31, 1980
Annex  9:  BDET:  Performance Indicators 1977-80
Annex 10:  BDET:  Major Assumptions Underlying Projections 1982-86
Annex 11:  BDET:  Projected Operations 1981-86
Annex 12:  BDET;  Income Statements, Audited (1977-80) and Projected (1981-86)
Annex 13:  BDET:  Balance Sheets, Audited (1977-80) and Projected 1981-86)
Annex 14:  BDET:  Pipeline of subprojects in EMIs
Annex 15:  BDET:  Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
Annex 16:  Documents in Project File



I. INTRODUCT'ION
1.01     This report appraises a project wh.ch will provide financial and
technical assistance to the Electrical and lMechanical Industries (EMIs) in
Tunisia, and introduce a number of sector policy improvements and institution-
building efforts. The groundwork for this loan was laid down on the Bank side
in the sector report on EMIs I/ prepared duHing 1979-80.  Extensive prepara-
tion was done in parallel by the Tunisians because the project would also
coincide with the beginning of the Sixth Plan (1982-86) which, partly as a
result of EMI sector report, has the development of EMIs as its first indus-
trial priority.
1.02     The project would include five main elements, namely:
(a)  a US$30.5 million loan to BDET divided into a US$28.0 million credit
line to BDET, half of which would be onlent to eligible subprojects
in priority EMI subsectors and half to eligible industrial sub-
projects in other industrial sectors, and a US$2.0 million loan to be
onlent to the Government by BDET to cover the foreign exchange costs
of experts to be hired by: (i) the Technical Center for Mechanical
Industries (CTM) (US$1.5 million), (ii) the Standardization Institute
((c) below) (US$0.3 million), and (iii) the Bach Hamba Institute
(US$0.2 million); and a front-end fee amounting to US$0.5 million.
(b) the provision of technical assista.nce to selected EMI subsectors
through the CTM to be established;
(c)  a product standardization and quality control program through the
establishment of a new National IrLstitute for Standardization and
Quality Control designed to cover all industrial products;
(d)  a package of incentives specific to EMIs to be improved and of
administrative procedures to be streamlined; and
(e)  the preparation of development str-ategies for two EMI subsectors with
development potential.
1.03     The relevant Project Performance Audit Report No. 3611, dated
September 9, 1981, covers the third, fourt'a and fifth loans to BDET (Project
File, Item 9). Points stressed in the repDrt, such as the need to increase
promotion and supervision activities, adeqlacy of provisions for risk, and
high concentration of subprojects in Tunis, were taken into account in the
Seventh loan as well as in the preparation of the proposed loan.
1/ Tunisia Review of the Electrical and Mechanical Industries (Report
No. 2666-TUN, dated June 4, 1980) (Project File, Item 1).



-2-
II. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
A. Recent Performance
2.01      As the Fifth Development Plan (1977-1981) is drawing to a close, the
performance of manufacturing continues to be good on the whole, and expecta-
tions are high that most of the Plan objectives set for the sector will be
achieved. Manufacturing value added grew at a healthy rate of 10.2% p.a.
(compared to 6.7% p.a. growth in GDP) over the Plan period, in spite of slug-
gishness in the textiles subsector due to the recession in the EEC market in
1978. Total employment creation in the sector exceeded the target, with
almost 95,000 new jobs (compared to 60,300 during the Fourth Plan), represen-
ting 45% of total new employment in the economy during the Plan as compared to
33% during the 1960s. The subsectors contributing most to manufacturing
growth and employment creation were: textiles , construction materials, and
electrical and mechanical industries (EMIs). With a total of D 750 million or
18% of total gross fixed capital formation over the Plan period, manufacturing
investments came short of the 23% share targeted for the sector, chiefly
because of some delays of large projects in the chemicals and construction
materials subsectors, and the slowdown in the textile subsector. Total manu-
facturing exports continued to perform well, fulfilling the target share of
45% of total commodity exports set for the Plan; textile products remained
Tunisia's principal manufacturing exports in spite of the market difficulties
encountered in 1978.
2.02      Despite these quantitative achievements, the shares of manufacturing
in GDP and national employment remained quite modest at 11% and 20% respec-
tively, thus leaving ample room for additional expansion. The manufacturing
base continues to be dominated by two traditional subsectors,textiles and food
processing. Private domestic initiatives in manufacturing were strong during
the Fifth Plan, especially in the EMI and food subsectors. Having started
however from a much lower base, private investments have remained smaller than
those of the public sector, averaging 39% of total manufacturing investment
during the Plan. In effect, most of the larger enterprises in Tunisia are
publicly owned (especially in the chemicals, construction materials, and EMI
subsectors). In contrast, private manufacturing enterprises tend to be small
and medium-sized, employing between 10-50 workers 1/; according to the 1978
Industrial Census, they represented about 65% of the total number of firms in
the sector. Manufacturing production is mostly concentrated in the Greater
Tunis area and the regions bordering the east coast. There are indications,
however, of some decentralization towards the interior in recent years,
especially among the smaller enterprises. New incentives to foster faster
decentralization have been introduced by the Government in June 1981 (para
2.08).
1/ A recent Bank loan (No. 1969-TUN) addressed the specific needs of these
small-scale enterprises; see First Small-Scale Industry Development
Project, Staff Appraisal Report No. 3266-TUN, February 5, 1981. (Project
File, Item 7).



2.03     Factor performance in Tunisian manufacturing has improved slightly
over the last Plan period. The incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR),
though still high, has actually decreased from an average of 5.0 during
1973-1977 to about 4.0 during 1977-1981, this suggesting that Tunisian enter-
prises have become relatively more efficient with their investments (Annex 1).
Reinforcing this trend is the general decline in the capital intensity of
investments in manufacturing; investment cost per job created decreased by 34%
beeween 1977 and 1980, averaging about US$15,819. Productivity of labor (as
measured by real value added per worker) experienced improvement as well
during the Plan period. Its absolute value (LS$2,195 for 1980) nevertheless
remained low compared to other comparable Mediterranean LDCs (for which value
added per worker ranged between US$4,000 for Morocco and US$6,400 for
Portugal). Although the above qualitative achievements in the manufacturing
sector represent progress in the right direction, they remain quite modest.
Substantially more efforts are still required, therefore, to improve produc-
tivity and competitiveness before the sector can attain its full potential.
B. The Sixth Developrnent Plan
2.04     The Sixth Plan 1982-1986 is still under preparation.  Preliminary
projections available for the manufacturing sector indicate that the Govern-
ment will, on the whole, pursue the same development objectives as in the last
two Plans, namely employment creation, exports, more efficient and better
integrated industrial structure, and more rapid decentralization of industrial
activities. Thus, a large share of the planned productive investments in
manufacturing (tentatively projected at D 1.750 billion in current prices, or
22% of the total) would originate from the private sector, and especially from
the labor intensive industries (eg. small and medium-scale enterprises, and
EMIs). Manufacturing value added is projected to grow at about 11.5% p.a. in
real terms, slightly faster than the growth rate achieved during the Fifth
P'lan. Textiles, food processing, and chemicals are expected to grow at a much
slower pace than before (10.2%, 7.1%, 8.5% p.a. respectively); in contrast,
the fastest growth (18.7% p.a.) is foreseen for EMIs which have the highest
priority for industry in the Plan. Their shz.re of total manufacturing value
added is expected to reach 19% in 1986 compared with 14% in 1981. Overall,
these targets correspond to the sectoral prospects envisaged for the next five
years (para. 2.10). A more detailed assessment of the Government's objec-
tives for the EMIs is provided in Chapter III.
C. Issues and Constraints
2.05     The development potential of the manufacturing sector has been hin-
dered by a number of constraints, some of which affect EMIs more specifically
than others (para 3.19). Although closely related to each other, these pro-
blems can be grouped into two main types: thia ones existing within the firms,
and the ones stemming from the policy and incentive framework.
2.06     Technical Constraints.  The first set of constraints involves:
inefficient planning and management of production operations, poor product
design and quality control, deficient machine operating and maintenance



-4-
practices, insufficient specialization of product mix, weak linkages between
firms and subsectors, excessive capacities in several subsectors (including
some EMIs), shortage of skilled labor, experienced production technicians and
engineers, as well as experienced industrialists/promoters.  Since 1979, some
of the simpler project preparation and production management/accounting pro-
blems specifically faced by the SSIs have been addressed through a technical
assistance scheme operated by Agence de Promotion des Investissements (API)
and Centre National des Etudes Industrielles (CNEI) 1/. Because of its spe-
cific focus on the transitional problems of Tunisian SSIs, this scheme is not
geared to resolve the specialized technical, engineering-type problems encoun-
tered by industries in general, and EMIs in particular. An effort is made in
the context of this project to address this deficiency for the EMIs (paras
6.08-6.16). With regard to shortage of skilled labor and especially of expe-
rienced mid-level technicians, there are several ongoing technical training
programs under the aegis of the Ministry of Education and the Office de
l'Emploi, with the latter being given the central role in professional trai-
ning activities. Under the Fifth Plan, these programs focussed on teaching
and upgrading skills relevant to regional and sectoral employment needs.
These programs produced 36,800 skilled and semi-skilled workers in 1978 of
which about 30% are specialized in EMI skills. To further support the Govern-
ment's efforts to train technical manpower, the Bank Fourth Education loan
(No. 1961-TUN) approved on May 18, 1981 will assist the Office de l'Emploi in
its efforts to expand the training output, to improve the quality of training,
and to promote closer cooperation and involvement front the enterprises in the
training activities. Annual output from these new and expanded facilities are
expected to be about 6,200 workers, of which 3,300 with EMI skills . These
present and future training programs would improve the supply and quality o'
technical workers available to manufacturing firms in general, and EMIs in
particular. To avoid duplication of efforts, the proposed project will
address the issue of technical training of EMI workers only in the form of
on-the-job and shop floor level guidance of workers in EMI enterprises (para
6.12)  With regards to the need for product-on engineers, a major increase in
their number is envisaged during the coming years through the establishment,
under the Ministry of Higher Education, of the Institute of Technology and the
strengthening of the National School of Engineering (Ecole Nationale des
Ingenieurs Tunisiens).
2.07      Policy Constraints.  The second set of constraints originates from
the Goverment's continued reliance on a complex system of administrative
controls with regards to investment criteria, pricing, tariff protection and
import quotas, and several shortcomings in the existing incentive framework.
In effect, although applied with greater flexibility in recent years, the
price controls--of a cost plus type-- 2/ coupled with high protection have
made the domestic market more profitable and less risky (especially for
enterprises fabricating end products, including EMIs), without encouraging
1/ More details are available in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3266-TUN) of
the First Small-Scale Industry Development Project. (Project File, Item 7).
2/ For miore details, see Special Economic Report on Price Controls and Subsi-
dies in Tunisia, No. 3405-TUN, September 15, 1981.



- 5 -
them to increase efficiency and competitiveness. A comprehensive review of
the pricing and protection structure is being undertaken by the Government in
the context of the Sixth Plan; in the short term, the proposed project is
addressing specifically the protection framework affecting EMIs (paras
6.21-6.22). The Government also has been controlling resource allocation and
investment approval. This, however, has not ensured the desired coordination
and consistency between investment programs, mnainly because well-defined sec-
toral strategies are not sufficiently developed. Conscious of this problem,
the Government has begun to place more emphasis on identifying integrated
investment programs for the Sixth Plan, especially in the EMI subsector. This
effort is commendable. However, the strategy to tie these investment projects
together in a consistent development approach is still missing for a number of
key subsectors; this deficiency will be addressed by the proposed project for
two EMI priority subsectors (paras. 6.26-6.27).
2.08     The basic investment incentive framework (Law 1974-74 for Tunisian
investors and Law 1972-38 for foreign export-oriented investments) 1/ gene-
rally has had a beneficial impact on the initiatives of the private sector in
manufacturing. There are, however, distorticns and negative secondary effects
which have emerged in recent years, such as fiscal exemptions granted irres-
pective of the efficiency of the investments and their employment creation;
lack of encouragement for higher sectoral integration and value added content
(especially from foreign assembly operations), and biases against SSIs. These
shortcomings, in combination with the pricing/protection issues above, have
further contributed to the low overall efficiency at the firm level. In June
1981, improvements were made by the Governmer.t to the Law 1974-1974; they are
good steps in the right direction 2/. The new measures introduced to promote
accelerated decentralization of industrial activities (e.g. granting of bonus
per new job created in lieu of interest rate subsidies; establishment of a
more refined geographical basis for fiscal benefits, etc.) are well thought
out and relevant; in particular, they should help reduce further the capital
intensive tendencies of investments in general, and be beneficial to SSI. The
modifications intended to expand exports and increase their local value-added
content (e.g. more liberal eligibility criteria for fiscal exemptions, simpli-
fied procedures, increased fiscal benefits, improved exemptions of taxes on
purchase of local goods and services to produice exports) also represent pro-
gress from the past for the manufacturing sector as a whole, and for the EMIs
to some extent. More concrete measures are still required, however, to
address in particular the need to create more efficient employment (i.e. with
higher domestic value-added per worker), to Lncrease linkages/integration
between subsectors and firm sizes, and to better encourage efficient domestic
fabrication of end-products.  Finally, measures to specifically promote a
faster and more efficient development of the EMI priority subsector are
missing from the revised Investment Code. SDme solutions have been identified
for the EMIs (para 3.25) and appropriate recommendations are detailed in the
policy component of the proposed project (paras 6.21- 6.25).
1/ For more details, see Tunisia-Review of Electrical and Mechanical
Industries, op. cit. (Project File, Item 1).
2/ The new Incentive Law No. 81-56 is available in the Project File, Item 10;
see also para 3.20,



- 6 -
D. Prospects and Priorities
2.09     The outlook for manufacturing in the next two years is expected to
remain relatively good.  For the longer term however, growth prospects are
more limited. In effect, an accelerated development of the two major export
subsectors (textiles and chemicals) may be increasingly constrained by market
and resource considerations, and will require major efforts to diversify the
country's foreign markets and strengthen existing export promotion possibili-
ties. The potential of the food processing industries will continue to hinge
importantly on safety in supply and productivity gains in the agricultural
sector. Production of construction materials will probably slow down somewhat
as domestic demand stabilizes. The leather industries may have some export
potential but would require some re-orientation in production (eg. improved
productivity and geared towards high value added quality items) and strength-
ening of marketing/export facilities. For these subsectors, prospects could
be substantially improved if serious efforts are made over the next 2-3 years
to increase the sector's productivity and market competitiveness; this is one
of the objectives set by the Government for the Sixth Plan.
2.10     As for the EMIs, whose development has contributed little to that of
overall manufacturing, there are substantial opportunities for both import-
substitution and exports, particularly if focus is placed on efficient produc-
tion of standard intermediate and capital goods as discussed in more details
in paras. 3.12-3.14. This prospect is confirmed by the analysis of indus-
trialization patterns in Tunisia compared with those in 32 countries similar
in population size, and manufacturing orientation 1/ for the years 1977, 1979,
1981 and 1985. The results show that, for TunisiaTs size and level of deve-
lopment, the manufacturing sector in general, and the EMIs in particular,
should contribute larger shares to the country's GDP (Annex 2). To correct
the above imbalances and to exploit more fully the EMI's ability to create
more employment and strengthen existing industrial linkages, the Government
has given the EMIs first industrial priority in the Sixth Plan. This objec-
tive is supported by the project.
1/ See the World Bank Research Project "Patterns of Industrial Development"
(RPO 671-05).



- 7 -
III. THE EMI SUBSECTOR
A. Structure and Characteristics
3.01     Engineering industries usually lie at the heart of the industriali-
zation process around the power, transportation and manufacturing sectors.
They provide the design, development and fabrication technology for most
iran-made products, and they establish a crucial link between the end-products
assembly industries and the supplier industries manufacturing all components
and sub-assemblies. Well-developed EMIs generally comprise five groups of
subsectors:
-    basic metals (steel works, ferrous/non-ferrous foundries);
-    fabricated metal products, and non electrical machinery and supplies;
-    electrical machinery, appliances ancl supplies;
-    transport equipment; and
-    measuring and control equipment.
3.02     Tunisia has so far entered some simple production lines of EMIs, in
the subsectors of basic metals (steel mill and foundries), metal products
(mostly consumer and durable goods), electrical machinery and appliances, and
transport equipment (ship repair and vehicle assembly). The outstanding gap
in the structure of Tunisia's EMIs is the subsector of non-electrical machi-
nery, which has been neglected due largely to its intrinsic complexity and
technological requirements. Excluding the artisans with less than 5 workers,
the EMIs comprise about 300 industrial enterprises, generally small 1/, with a
majority of enterprises in the activities of steel structure/platework, metal
products, and mechanical works. They are dominated by a dozen large public
enterprises (steel mill, foundries, ship repair, vehicle assembly, engines,
household appliances, hardware), which account for more than half of the
sector's output.
3.03     Tunisian EMIs have grown rapidly, 1y 18% p.a. during the 1960s from a
small base, and by 13% p.a. during the 1970s. They are still small, represen-
ting only 1.9% of GDP. The sector is essentially inward-oriented. The deve-
lopment of EMIs in the 1970s has taken place principally in import-substituting
assembly industries producing consumer and dlurable goods and relying largely
on imported components. As a consequence oi- the focus on assembly activities,
the value-added content of the sector's output has remained low at an average
of 30%.
1/ Of these enterprises, 70% employ less than 50 workers.



-8-
Tunisia - Structure and Growth of EMIs
(in percent of Output)
Structure of Output    VA         Growth Rate p.a.
EMI Subsector                         1972        1980    Output          1972-1980
Mechanical Industries
Intermediate Goods                   53.1         39.1          40           8.9
Capital Goods                         12.3        12.4          40          13.4
Consumer/Durable Goods               20.3         25.9          20           16.8
Sub-Total Mechanical                 85.7         77.4          33          11.8
Electrical Industries
Intermediate Goods                    2.5          2.9          15          15.5
Capital Goods                         4.8          7.4          40           19.6
Consumer/Durable Goods                 7.0        12.3          15          21.4
Sub-Total Electrical                 14.3         22.6          23          19.9
TOTAL EMIs                          100.0        100.0          30          13.2
3.04      Labor Productivity in EMIs (measured by value-added per worker) is
low compared to Mediterranean LDCs, averaging some $2,900 in 1980. It has
increased steadily in the late 1970s, by some 5% p.a. in real terms, reflec-
ting improvements of the EMI labor force's skills.  The proportion of tech-.
cians and foremen in the EMI's labor force rose from 5.7% in 1969 to 7.2% in
1979, and the proportion of unskilled labor decreased from 37% to 18% to the
benefit of skilled workers. The average ratio of 1:7 between supervisory
staff and direct production labor has been adequate in comparison with EMIs in
other countries. however, the proportion of skilled labor relative to unskil-
led labor has remained low, in particular in the foundry and steel platework
subsectors, and the share of production engineers and other supervisory staff
has been significantly lower in the mechanical works subsector comparatively
to other subsectors. The output of EMI skilled labor from the education and
vocational training systems will increase substantially through education pro-
jects assisted by the Bank and bilateral sources.  However, the availability
of electrical and mainly mechanical engineers will be a major constrairnt on
(a) the aevelopment of the EMI sector in general; (b) diversification of EMIs
into new or more complex activities (such as machinery); and (c) increases in
labor productivity.
B. Subsectoral Patterns and Potential
3.05      EMIs can be classified functionally into three groups:  those produ-
cing consumer and durable goods, those producing capital goods and supplies,
and those producing intermediate components and sub-assemblies for the two
other groups. Consumer and durable goods EMIs (hardware, metal products,
household appliances and TV/radio sets, vehicle assembly for 11,000 units
p.a.) account for 40% of the Tunisian EMI output and meet about half of the



- 9 -
clomestic demand for these goods. These industries rely mostly on assembling
imported inputs, which represent 40-70% of tthe output value, and are weakly
integrated within the sector. Moreover, the low degree of capacity utiliza-
tion (about two-thirds), the low content of Labor (5 to 10% of output value)
and the amount of duties and taxes on inputs have resulted in uncompetitive
prices and made it necessary to protect domentic production by substantial
import duties (30% and above, and up to 100% for automobiles).  Intra-sectoral
integration of these EMIs could increase in the long-term with the development
of efficient intermediate goods EMIs.   The Low efficiency and productivity of
consumer/durable goods EMIs stem from the weak organization and management of
plants and mainly from the excessive diversi:fication of product-mix and frag-
mentation of the small domestic market, which have miade the integration of
Local parts and components more difficult.  Che strategies and policies with
respect to rationalization and standardization which would permit a sound
development of these EMIs will require long gestation and are likely to result
in implementation delays.
3.06     Intermediate goods EMIs (8,000 t.p.a. of foundry castings, steel maill
producing 170,000 t.p.a. of construction rods, wires, pipes, and parts) repre-
sent 40% of the EMI output and meet one-third of the domestic demand for these
goods. The technologies rely less on imports and more on local inputs, which
entails lower charges from duties and taxes. Finally, the moderate protection
(9 to 16% nominal duties) given to these industries (except the steel mill)
constitutes an effective incentive to select appropriate technologies and ope-
rate them efficiently.  As a result, intermediate EMIs goods have been reason-
ably competitive (prices being generally 10 to 30% above European FOB prices).
However, the iron/steel foundries, which should be the backbone of EMIs deve-
lopment, are still weak, representing only 2.5% of total EMI output. They
produce at competitive prices low grade simple castings in small series for
varied uses on the domestic market (construction, mines, cement industry,
railways, other EMIs); the cost of labor is low, but labor productivity is
equally low due to old equipment and technical deficiencies which make better
grade castings more costly to produce (up to 20% above European imports).
Foundries have potential for development and need to modernize their pla-nts,
and upgrade labor skills and the quality of production and technical manage-
ment. A study of the foundry subsector is being carried out with Bank assis-
tance to define a clear long-term development strategy aimed at rationalizing
and specializing productions and markets between firms and projects and out-
lining specific investment programs (para 6.28).
3.07     EMIs producing capital goods, which represent 20% of the sector's
output and meet only 10% of the domestic demand for capital goods, comprise
mainly an important steel structure and platework subsector (30,000 t.p.a.). a
ship repair yard, efficient industries producing basic electrical equipment
(transformers, motors, cables) and agriculttral implements, and small ineffi-
cient diesel engine assemblies. TechnologiEs are labor-intensive (labor cost
represents 20-50% of output value, and up to 60% in ship repair) and use local
inputs up to 35% of output value.  Until recently, they had generally no or
negative protection (except diesel engines -- see para 3.22), and domestic
ex-factory price typically range between 10; below and 10% above of European
FOB prices.  The competitiveness of these industries stems essentially frorm
the lower overall cost of labor (one-third of the European average) which more
than offsets the fiscal charges on inputs and the lower productivity of labor
(about half tnat in Europe).



10 -
J.06    The comparative advantage of Tunisia lies in:  its labor force with
relatively low wages and increasing competence and quality, although there
remains a major need to improve production management and upgrade labor pro-
ductivity up to international standards; its proximity and preferential access
to the EEC markets; and its liberal policies toward foreign investment which
would be instrumental in the development of EMIs. Because the domestic market
is small, complementary exports are required in some production lines to reach
efficient scales of production (e.g., in mechanical works, automobile compo-
nents, hardware). The major identified potential rests, however, with further
efficient import-substitution of intermediate and capital goods using simple
or intermediate labor-intensive technologies, where there are economies of
scale at a low level and where local enterprises have generally been effi-
cient. The subsectors of steel structure/platework and mechanical works offer
ample room for improvements in technical management and modernization of the
product-mix towards more technologically advanced products. A coordinated
development of these two subsectors will require technological assistance to
the firms; also a study of the platework subsector is needed to specify econo-
mically efficient production lines and to recommend optimal allocations of
production lines and markets between the firms and the projects. For similar
reasons, there is a need for a study of the foundry subsector (para. 3.06).
The proposed project addresses these needs (paras 6.12 and 6.27).
C. Trade and Demand for EMI Goods
3.09     Imports of EMI goods have put an increasing pressure on the balance
of payments 1/; they increased from 35% of total Tunisian imports in 1970 to a
maximum of 45% in 1978, and totalled D 440 million (US$880 million) in 1979.
Imports of capital goods (excluding transport equipment) have represented on
the average half of total EMI imports (up to 57% in 1978); they comprised
advanced equipment (e.g., machine tools, telephone equipment) and mainly stan-
dard machinery 2/ which in a large part could be produced locally (para 3.12).
Imports of intermediate EMI goods, representing one fourth of total EMI
imports, have consisted mainly of iron/steel primary products totalling some
200,000 tons, including about 12,000 tons of ferrous castings and 20,000 tons
of steel structures. Others imports comprised primarily transport vehicles,
and components and parts for the automobile and radio/TV local assemblies.
3.10     Exports of the EMI sector have represented an increasing share of the
sector's output (from 11% in 1976 to 18% in 1979) and of total manufacturing
exports (from 6.5% to 8.5% over 1976-1979). Exports of electrical machinery
and electronic products emerged after 1974 and have taken the largest share in
EMI exports (40%), before the traditional exports of lead products. They
represented one third of the electrical industries' output in 1979, and have
come mainly from foreign firms operating on an "off-shore" basis under the Law
1972-38 to assemble electronic products, measure instruments, and radios and
TV sets for exports.
1/ Major reasons have been an elasticity of total demand for EMI goods to
GIoss Fixed Investment greater than 1 and with total investments growing
at some 15% p.a.
2/ Lifting/hoisting machinery, earth moving machinery, mining equipment,
pumps, engines, industrial boilers; electrical switchgear/switchboard
apparatus, motors and generators, cables and wires.



- 11 -
D. Market Prospects and Development Strategy for the EMIs
3.11      The focus of further development of EMIs in Tunisia should shift away
from consumer and durable goods industries, which had received priority during
the 1970s and which need above all to be rationalized, especially the automo-
tive industry with its small and fragmented domestic market (para 3.05). The
primary development objectives for the sector, i.e., to increase labor produc-
tivity and local value-added content, will be best achieved in the medium-term
by focusing on three major groups of priority activities, in the industries
producing capital and intermediate goods and exports, with potential for
growth and efficiency improvement.
3.12      The first group with potential and prospects for efficient import-
substitution are intermediate and capital goods using simple or intermediate
labor-intensive technologies and having domestic markets large enough to
sustain economic operations. It comprises mainly:
-  ferrous castings from foundries, where local production could reach
20,000 t.p.a., including 6,000 t which would substitute for castings
currently imported;
-  steel structures and platework, for which the domestic market could
grow by an additional 15,000-20,000 t. by 1985, including about
10,000 t. of imported items which could be manufactured in Tunisia
(boilers, furnaces, pressure vessels, lifting and hoisting
machinery) 1/;
-  selected mechanical works, for the fabrication of agricultural imple-
ments, small earth-moving and construction machinery (cranes), rail-
road freight cars, pumps and compressors for which imports rose from
US$60 million in 1977 to US$90 million in 1979; and
-  electro-mechanical and electronic machinery (motors, transformers,
switchgears, cables, and telephone equipment) for which imports
increased up to US$105 million in 1.979.
3.13      The second group with potential for development comprises a coordi-
nated and integrated set of capital goods and supplies with smaller domestic
markets than in the first group. This second group includes mainly power
engines, their components and parts and varhous derived machinery and equip-
ments (air compressors, generating groups, l:ractors, fork lifts, trucks,
dumpers, excavators). The development of the production of diesel engines
will constitute an opportunity to standardize and rationalize the fragmented
domestic market and thereby achieve some economies of scale 2/. Imports of
diesel engines and derived machinery have averaged some US$30 million p.a.
during the late 1970s.
1/ Imports of these items increased from US$36 million in 1977 to US$75
million in 1979.
2/  Ongoing feasibility studies for a diesel engines project (para. 3.18) are
investigating whether export outlets, to be secured through foreign
partners and "compensation" (buy-back) contracts, would be necessary to
complement the domestic market and achieve higher economies of scale.



- 12 -
3.14      The third group consists of other intermediate goods and end-products
with established or potential markets for exports, such as hand tools and cut-
lery, mechanical and electrical components and appliances (transformers,
TV/radio sets, electronic components, hi-fi and measure instruments), heavy
metal structures and electrical gear for neighboring countries, and possibly
castings in the longer term. The potential for exports has partly been har-
nessed by foreign ventures in the electrical industries (para 3.10) as well as
by some local firms (hand tools and cutlery, structures and electrical gear).
Exports can be expanded further, in particular for automobile accessories
through joint ventures and buy-back/subcontracting agreements with large
foreign manufacturers. The export projects should be promoted keeping in mind
the need to increase the intra-sectoral integration of these projects and the
local value-added content of the exports.
3.15      A focus on these three groups of priority activities would help to
foster the development of subsectors representing currently about two-thirds
of the EMIs' output. It would also aim over the medium term at substituting
efficiently for some 20% of total EMI imports (equivalent to 11% of total
Tunisian manufactured imports) and promoting abroad the image of Tunisia as an
efficient and significant exporter of engineering goods.
E. The Sixth Plan and the Pipeline of EMI Projects
3.16      The preliminary draft of the Sixth Plan 1/ has projected a total
investment in EMIs of about D 480 million (US$960 million, equivalent to D 350
million in constant 1980 prices), representing 27% of total projected manufac-
turing investment as compared to 14% during the Fifth Plan (para 2.03). T-is
program would more than double the annual investment in EMIs in 1980 prices
from D 20-25 million p.a. during 1976-1980 to D 70 million p.a., and a recent
economic mission which reviewed the draft Plan considered this program very
ambitious and requiring a major effort of project identification and promotion.
If achieved, this program is expected to accelerate the growth of the sector's
output from 15.5% p.a. during 1977-1981 to 18.7% p.a. during 1982-1986. Given
that the manufacturing sector and the GDP are projected to grow by 11.7% and
6.7% p.a. respectively, the EMI sector would thus catch up a substantial part
of its current development lag. By 1986, it would represent about 19% of
manufacturing output and 3.3% of GDP, thereby making the structure of the
Tunisian manufacturing sector closer to that of countries of similar size and
level of development.
3.17      The Plan's subsectoral allocation of total EMI investments reflects
largely the sectoral strategy proposed for the sector (paras 3.12-3.14), with
a shift away from consumer and durable goods industries towards mechanical
works, foundries, steel structures and platework, and buy-back exports for
automobile components and accessories (in joint ventures with foreign firms).
Some 37% of total EMI investments would be for mechanical works projects (most
private) to produce capital goods and supplies and automobile components for
exports; 33% for the basic metals subsectors (foundries and one steel mill, by
the public sector); 14% for the steel structure and platework subsector; 9%
for electrical and electronic (telephone) equipment; and only 6% for hardware
and consumer/durable goods. As a result, steel structures and platework would
maintain their share of the sector output (30%); mechanical works and
1/ The final Sixth Plan Document will be issued by July 1982.



- 13 -
electrical industries, both with relatively hiigh value-added and technology
content, would increase their shares (respectively to 30% and 15% in 1986,
compared to 17% and 10% in 1981).  The following table summarizes these
patterns:
Structure of the EMIs Investments in 1982-1986 Plan (in %)
Projects           Projected        Share of
Ready for  Under    Over-    Growth   Priority  Public
1982/1983  Consider- a.1   1982-1986  Projects  Projects
Subsector                          ation        3/      (p.a.)       4/
Basic Metals                21.2        8.5      33.2       8.4         6.2       77.3
Mechanical Works 1/         22.4       12.5      37.2      26.8        66.2        1.4
Structure/Platework           1.3       8.5      13.9      20.2      100            -
Electrical Industries        0.3        7.9       9.2      24.4        72.0        0.1
Hardware/
Consumer Goods 2/          2.0       4.1       13.4      13.2        -          71.0
TOTAL                     47        42       10')        18.7       47.7        32.4
3.18      Within the D 480 million 5/ of investments projected for EMIs, pro-
jects totalling D 9 million have been initiated or will be undertaken before
1982, and D 46 million are earmarked for maintenanc, and renewal in existing
enterprises. Some D 220 million are currently at a preparation stage such
that they would likely be financed during 1982 and 1983 and implemented within
the Plan period. Other projects totalling D 190 million could be financed and
implemented afterwards.  Projects in tthe priority groups identified earlier
(paras 3.12-3.14) would total about D 220 million for the Plan period, and
would be undertaken essentially by the private sector; the public sector is
programmed to invest some D 12 million in priority activities (foundries and
shipyards) and some other D 150 million in ron-priority projects and activi-
ties (a new steel mill, vehicles assembly, consumer durables). Out of the D
220 million of priority projects, some D 90 million would likely be financed
and undertaken during 1982-1983, half of which being buy-back export projects
for automobile components. The major projects and programs contemplated in
the priority activities supported by the Banik are listed in Annex 3; they com-
prise: (i) for 1982-1983 financing: four joint ventures for buy-back exports
(D 30 million), rehabilitation of public foundries and shipyards (D 12
million), modernization and restructuring oi the steel structure and platework
1/ Including "compensation" export projects but excluding automobile compo-
nents for the domestic market.
2/ Including automobile components for the domestic market.
3/ Excluding ongoing projects and renewal investments which represent 11% of
total investments.
4/ As defined in paras 3.12-3.14.
5/ Dl = US$2.



- 14 -
subsector (D 6 million), agricultural machinery (D 4 million), and possibly
the first phase of a mechanical complex for the production of diesel engines
(D 16 million); and (ii) for financing after 1983: three joint ventures for
exports (D 22 million), further modernization and restructuring in steel
structure and platework (D 39 million), electrical gear ana motors/generators
(D 20 million), machinery for public works and construction (D 10 million),
telephone switchboards (D 6 million), and possibly the completion phase of the
diesel engines complex (D 23 million). Most of these projects (except those
few consisting of mere expansion of existing production lines) are aiming at
developing products and machinery which would be new for Tunisia and would
thus require some transfer of technology or know-how. The Ministry of
National Economy and its Direction of Industry intend to strongly advise
project promotors to rely on foreign partners or associates so as to ensure
the technology transfer, the technical assistance and acceptable standards of
quality required for new products.
F. Sectoral Issues and Constraints
3.19     Two outstanding constraints which have affected the manufacturing
sector in general, and the EMIs in particular, are:
a.  the low level of labor productivity;  and
b.  the biases of the incentives framework (Investment Code, protection,
pricing) against firm specialization, rationalization of product-mix,
intra-sectoral integration, exports, and the production of capital
goods and supplies.
The first constraint derives partly from the biases against firm specializa-
tion, but mainly from general weaknesses in plant design/lay-out and in opera-
ting practices due, in turn, to constraints on the supply of technical assis-
tance and on-the-job training of labor. The Technical Center for EMIs to be
established as a component of the project will provide in-plant technical
assistance in subsectors with the most urgent needs (para 6.12).
3.20     The Investment Code (Law 1974-74, revised by Law 81-56) encourages
EMI enterprises to expand their labor force beyond levels that are economi-
cally justified, essentially because the rate of income tax relief granted by
the Code increases with the number of jobs created in enterprises which are
not led by the protection and price control structures to increase their labor
efficiency. Normal operating practices in the EMIs of industrialized coun-
tries are based on strong linkages between the supplies of intermediate and
semi-finished products and the end-product assembly industries 1/. In con-
trast, the Tunisian firms have often invested for the sake of self-sufficiency
into accessory production lines where additional equipment and labor are under-
utilized and operating costs high, thereby hampering firm specialization and
1/ In advanced engineering industries, the final processing and assembly
typically account for 20-30% of the end-product value, with 70-80% going
to the suppliers industries where most of the engineering processes take
place.



- 15 -
intra-sectoral integration. Another factor constraining the exchange of goods
and services between local firms has been the low or irregular quality of semi-
finished products largely because of the lack: of generally accepted quality
standards and controls. The Government plans; to open in 1982 an Institute for
Standardization and Quality Control of indust:rial products (para 6.18).
3.21     Administrative red tape and the laclc of quality standards have also
constrained exports by local EMIs and intra-sectoral linkages between local
firms and the foreign exporting firms which operate on an "off-shore" basis.
Red tape has made it difficult, and often im?ossible, to exempt from duties
and taxes the inputs used for indirect, marginal or unforeseen exports; this
has discouraged not only local firms to look for contracts abroad or to pur-
chase some of their inputs from foreign exporting firms, but also the latter
ones to integrate locally backwards for part of their inputs. The Government
agreed to study streamlining measures to remove red tape and to enact them
through the Finance Law for 1982 (para 6.23).
3.22     The structure of protection and tariff schedules for imported EMI
goods (see Annex 4) indicates that:
(i)  capital goods imports bear no or low duties, ranging from 0 (agri-
culture and dairy machinery) to 162% (compressors, public works
machinery), with the major exception of steel structure and platework
products which enjoy a nominal protection of 26% 1/;
(ii) intermediate goods and supplies imports generally bear duties ranging
from 6% (flat and long steel basic products) to above 20% (fasteners),
representing an average 13% duty on imported inputs and intermediate
goods used by Tunisian EMIs.
As a result, capital goods industries (where the value added/output ratio
ranges typically between 40 and 50%) have received a low or negative effective
protection (between +20% and -15%, with the exception of +50% for steel struc-
ture and platework), due to the duties paid on inputs which represent up to
8-10% of the output value, expressed in international prices.
3.23     Moreover, the Investment Code has traditionally provided all approved
projects with exemptions of duties on imported capital goods, except on those
which could be produced locally. Because of administrative difficulties, the
latter restriction has not been fully applied, with the result that most local
capital goods industries have de facto received no nominal protection and a
negative effective protection ranging between -10 and -15%, thus hampering
severely the development of these industries as well as of exports. Given
that most consumer and durable EMI goods, on the other hand, have received
nominal protection of 30% or more (up to 200% for automobiles) corresponding
to effective protection rates of 90% and above, local enterprises have been
encouraged neither to expand or diversify their production into capital goods
and exports nor to increase the efficiency of their operations.
1/  In fact, this 26% duty aims at protecting the local production of metallic
frames for doors and windows, which is regrouped with large steel struc-
tures in a single customs item.



- 16 -
3.24     To compensate for the negative effective protection on capital goods
industries, the Tunisian authorities have also been using a discretionary
import licencing procedure to limit imports of capital, as well as of inter-
mediate, goods. The licencing authorities have, under the guidance of the
Direction of Industry of the Ministry of National Economy, regulated the
amount of imports of capital and intermediate goods in those cases where
Tunisian products are satisfactory in terms of prices and quality but cannot
meet the whole demand within schedule or where there is evidence of unfair
pricing practices which would jeopardize Tunisia's infant EMI industries.
3.25     The Investment Code revisions of June 1981 have been focussed on the
general issues of regional decentralization and capital intensity of invest-
ment in manufacturing (para 2.08) 1/. These revisions fall nevertheless short
of what would be necessary to remove all the constraints noted above. The
overhaul of the tariff and protection structure is a long and complex under-
taking, where the Bank plans to assist through an Effective Protection Study
programmed for 1982-83 (para. 6.22). In the context of the Sixth Plan prepa-
ration, a Commission has started to review the current tariffs with a general
view to reducing the variations in tariff levels and, if possible, adjusting
on an ad-hoc basis some obvious cases of overprotection (such as some consumer
and durable EMI goods). In view of all this, attention was focussed during
project appraisal on those major issues where remedies could be undertaken
more quickly and easily. The Government agreed on specific incentives (para
6.21) for EMIs, for specific industrial standards and better quality control
(para 6.18) and for better procedures for tax/duties exemption on inputs used
for exports (para 6.23).
3.26     Ensuring that quantitative restrictions on imports of EMI goods do
not lead to inefficiency is an important factor for the development of EMIs.
Existing industries producing capital goods and supplies, which constitute one
of the major target groups of the proposed project, have been able to operate
with reasonable efficiency and competitiveness under the current tariff duties
and procedures for import licencing. Putting the current tariffs into effect
could be sufficient to induce and permit further efficient development of most
existing industries producing capital goods and supplies. On the other hand,
further liberalization of the import licencing procedures could endanger the
establishment and existence of projects and enterprises promoted by Tunisia
under the Bank loan to develop and manufacture new capital goods and machi-
nery. Several reasons account for that: the pervasive Tunisian preference
for foreign products 2/, the use of "dumping" prices by foreign suppliers as
an easy means to monopolize the small Tunisian markets, and the reluctance of
potential foreign partners or associates to enter joint ventures with Tuni-
sians (in particular for export-compensation projects) in the absence of
import controls and of guaranteed local markets.
1/ These revisions should indirectly benefit EMIs which are relatively
labor-intensive.
2/ Even if quality and/or prices should favor local products. Imports of
capital goods often provide purchasers with foreign exchange abroad.



- 17 -
3.27     Given that most projects for the production of new capital goods and
machinery would be undertaken with foreign partners (para 3.18) and that their
initial level of production would leave part of the domestic market to be met
by competing imports under existing licencing procedures, it was agreed with
Tunisian authorities that the objective of maintaining efficiency within EMI
while giving sufficient incentives and safeguiards to project promoters be
fulfilled along the following guidelines for all projects in EMI priority sub-
sectors:
(i)  use the import licencing procedure, in particular to monitor the
volume of competing imports, and apply consistently the tariff duties
on such imports;
(ii)  limit these tariff duties at up to 18%, and reduce the tariff duty on
steel structure and platework from 26% to 21%; and
(iii)  ensure that the project  manufacturers would not be allowed to charge
ex-factory prices in excess of 118% (121% for steel structure and
platework products) of the comparable foreign price, defined as the
ex-factory price of the foreign paitner in his domestic market I/
plus a reasonable estimate of costs for insurance and freight to
Tunisia). This would be achieved during the first three years of
production through price controls and subsequently through gradual
liberalization of imports, if the price levels defined above were
exceeded by the Tunisian manufacturers.
Thus projects that could not become or remain competitive would be forced,
through import liberalization, either to inc.rease their efficiency and com-
petitiveness under modest levels of protection, or remain unprofitable and
eventually close down. The other projects would be operating with nominal
rates of less than 18% implying effective protection rates of 20-30%, which
are satisfactory in the context of the Tunisian manufacturing sector.
1/ For projects undertaken without foreign partners or associates, the
Ministry of National Economy would determine through consultation an
average ex-factory price in the domestic market of the major.traditional
commercial partners of Tunisia.



- 18 -
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR AND ITS ROLE ON EMIs
4.01     Tunisia has a well developed financial system for its size.  The
financial community is composed of ten commercial banks (the largest ones are
State-owned), seventeen local savings and loans banks, four development
finance companies (BDET, COFIT, and two new ones), a small investment bank,
five portfolio management institutions, two savings institutions, and four
offshore banks. Although there are numerous institutions, there is a high
degree of concentration of activity. For example, three commercial banks
accounted for 60% of the deposits received by all commercial banks in 1980 and
BDET alone accounted for 39% of all medium and long-term loans granted by
financial institutions.
4.02     Two New Development Banks.  A far reaching change in the Tunisian
financial community has been the Government's decision in 1980 to establish
alongside BDET and COFIT two new development banks: The Tuniso-Koweiti Bank
(BTKD), and the Tuniso-Saoudi Investment Company (STUSID). In addition, a
Tuniso-Franco-Qatari Development Bank and two other banks to promote and
finance exclusively projects undertaken in cooperation with Algeria and
Morocco respectively are at an advanced stage of planning. The purpose of
these new banks is threefold. First, to reduce Government involvement in the
public sector by financing capital expenditures for viable projects which can
borrow on commercial terms; this will relieve the Government from the burden
of appraising and supervising such projects. Second, to increase substan-
tially Tunisia's resources mobilization capacity to fund the Sixth Plan, in
particular by tapping additional funds from oil surplus countries interested
in investing in Tunisia. Third, to increase existing project identification
capacity and help achieve the ambitious investment targets of the Sixth Plan
(para 2.04).
4.03     The two banks established in 1981 each have a capital of D 100
million (US$200 million), which make them the largest financial institutions
in Tunisia. To try to match the new banks' resources, BDET is planning to
triple its capital (para 5.02). The new banks can lend and take equity parti-
cipations in all sectors of the economy whereas BDET's involvement is limited
to industry, transportation, and tourism. BTKD, which started its operations
in June 1981, has a very tentative plan of building up a portfolio distributed
between 20% in tourism and real estate, 15% in agriculture and agribusiness,
60% in industry, and 5% in transportation; half would be loans, half equity
participations. The banks are expected to rely heavily on project promotion
to support their lending targets. These new banks are bringing a certain ele-
ment of competition in the financial system. Some specialization among the
new and existing development banks is bound to occur, either by consensus, or
by guidance from the Government but the relative roles of the new and existing
financial institutions remains unclear at this stage; in terms of project
size, however, the new banks are likely to focus on medium and mainly large
projects, thus leaving long-term financing of SSIs to BDET. Also, because of
its long experience in project appraisal and promotion, BDET has a comparative
advantage on which the new banks intend to capitalize by cofinancing projects
appraised by BDET.



- 19 -
4.04     Medium- and Long-term Financing 1/.  Outstanding medium- and long-
term credits to the economy amounted to D 617 million ($1.2 billion) at the
end of 1980; although still preponderant, the commercial banks' share has been
decreasing steadily (from 70% in 1975 to 55% in 1980) in favor of development
institutions (from 24% to 42%). This share is likely to increase with the
formation of the new development banks.
4.05     Financing of EMIs.  Of all sectors, EMIs are the largest recipient of
institutional credits in Tunisia.  Outstanding credits granted by commercial
banks and development institutions to EMIs amounted to D 133 million at the
end of 1980 accounting for 9% of all outstanding credits, and 19% of those to
industry. Short-term credits still represent the major share of credits to
EMIs (65% in 1980), though medium- and long-term financing has steadily
increased from 15% in 1970 to 28% in 1975 and 35% in 1980 due mainly to BDET's
activity.
4.06     EMIs have traditionally been one of the priority sectors for BDET
financing and more recently for its promotional activities. Between 1977 and
1980, EMIs received on the average 13.4% of BDET's yearly approvals, with a
range of 6.3% in 1979 to 25.5% in 1978. At the end of 1980, with 40 out-
standing long-term loans for D 13 million and 15 participations for D 1.89
million, EMIs accounted for 13.3% of BDET's total portfolio, and 22.1% of
BDET's portfolio in manufacturing. EMIs are also given clear priority in
BDET's promotional activities. Out of five Frojects promoted by BDET in 1980
and 1981, three were in the EMIs (the mechanical complex for diesel engines
and tractors (para 3.18), windshields wipers, and fork lifts). BDET plans to
expand its financing and promotional activities in the sector (para 6.03) in
accordance with Plan priorities and the targets of the proposed project.
4.07     EMI Suppliers' Credit.  In 1972, Banique Centrale de Tunisie (BCT)
created a facility called "credit a la production" which enables some local
equipment manufacturers to grant medium-term credits directly to their clients
provided that they are industrial promoters. These credits can finance up to
80% of the equipment cost for up to seven years at the same interest rate as
for rediscountable medium-term credits (currently 9.5%) The procedure is
simple and expeditious; disbursements are male on the basis of rediscountable
paper signed by the EMI supplier and the client. However, this facility,
uniquely geared to EMIs' financing needs, is largely underutilized. Although
there are incentives for commercial banks to grant such credits 2/, only ten
firms have benefited from them, and STIA (car and bus assembly) still accounts
for 90% of the amounts committed each year. In 1979, outstanding credits
peaked at D 7.9 million, but decreased to D 6 million in 1980 because of a
slowdown in STIA's activity. It is estimated that new commitments finance at
most 0.5% of annual EMI output eligible for such financing (excluding STIA).
During the appraisal of this project, it was agreed with BCT and APB (the
Tunisian Bankers Association) that an effort will be made by the banking
1/ The first Small-Scale Industry Development Project gives more details, op.
cit. (Project File, Item 7).
2/  In particular, these credits count towards meeting the minimum ratio (18%)
of transformation of deposits into medium-term credits to which all com-
mercial banks must adhere to.



- 20 -
system to advertise and market more extensively this facility. To that effect,
the list of EMI products eligible for this type of financing will be extended
to include all EMI capital goods and supplies currently manufactured in
Tunisia 1/.  The new list will be published through a circular to be issued by
BCT (para 6.24); this was recorded in the Guarantee Agreement. The Bank will
closely monitor the progress achieved in expanding this credit facility to
EMIs as a result of these measures.
4.08     Financing of Permanent 'Working Capital Needs.  Until recently, the
Tunisian practice has been to finance working capital needs, whether permanent
or not, exclusively with short-term credits. This has created problems for
promoters who were unable to start operations for lack of sufficient financing
once they had completed their investment. Starting with the SSI Pilot Line of
Credit (Loan 1505-TUN) and also under the First SSI Development project (Loan
1969-TUN), permanent working capital needs of SSI projects were included in
the total investment cost and financed with medium-term credits 2/. This new
practice is being extended gradually by BCT to other industrial projects. In
the context of the proposed project, permanent working capital needs of all
EMI subprojects will be eligible to medium-term financing (paras 6.06 and
6.24). This was recorded in the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement.
4.09     New Interest Rate Structure.  Effective April 1, 1981, BCT revised
upward the whole interest rate structure 3/. BCT's basic rediscount rate,
which applies to short-term credits, was raised by 1.25 point to 7% and the
rate on rediscountable medium-term credits (up to seven years) to industry was
also raised by 1.25 point to 9.75-10.25%. Long-term rates were freed with a
minimum rate of 10.5% (compared to 9% maximum previously).  To meet compet,.-
tion from medium-term credits from commercial banks, BDET has kept in 1981 its
lending rate for long term loans to local industries at the minimum 10.5% p.a.
Its loans for tourism and foreign industries currently carry interest charges
at 11% and 12% respectively. In addition, it charges commissions and fees
amounting to an equivalent of about 0.5% p.a.
4.10     Cost of Capital and Onlending Rates.  On the basis of projected
inflation during the next years (9% in 1982, 8% in 1983 and 7% in 1984),
effective lending rates for most industrial projects 4/ are clearly positive
in real terms, since all subsidies were rescinded when the Investment Code was
revised in June 1981 (para 2.08). Given that the lending rate for subprojects
to be financed under the Bank loan (currently 11% p.a. includinig commissions
and fees) would be negative compared to the Bank's lending rate, BDET plans to
increase its lending rates in future years (by half a percentage point every
year until 1985) provided that other interest rates, in particular rates for
1/ The list of EMI goods produced in Tunisia is available in the Project
File, Item 5.
2/ See First Small Scale Industry Development Project, op. cit. (Project
File, Item 7).
3/ The last revisions were made in September 1977 for rates on deposits and
in January 1978 for lending rates.
4/ Except for export-oriented and decentralized projects for which medium-
term lending rates are between 7.75% and 8%.



- 21 -
medium-term credit, would be allowed by BCT zand the Government to increase
similarly. A commitment (recorded in the Loan Agreement) was obtained during
negotiations from BDET to review annually its interest rate structure in the
light of its average cost of capital and administrative costs and then make
the adjustments required to achieve starting in 1982 a reasonable spread
(between its interest income on average loan portfolio and its interest pay-
ments on average term debt) to ensure its provisions and reserves as well as
payment of dividends on its equity; this reasonable spread was agreed to be at
least 2% (Minutes of Negotiations). If the general level of interest rates
restricts BDET's ability to raise its lending; rates, some form of Government
assistance will continue to be necessary.  In recent years, the Government had
guaranteed BDET a 3-point spread on loans financed with foreign exchange
resources, and it indicated in 1981 that new forms of assistance to BDET could
substitute to the former one if special circumstances warrant it. It is pro-
jected that, with its lending rates increasing by 0.5 percentage point each
year and without Government assistance to alleviate partly the high cost of
its future borrowings (para 5.22), BDET's spread would be about 1% in 1983 and
1984 (compared to 1.7% in 1981) and would increase to 1.6% in 1985 and 2% in
1986. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from the Government that
the necessary measures would be taken to ensure BDET a reasonable spread
(minimum 2%), through lending interest rate adjustments, greater access to
cheaper local or foreign resources, and Government assistance when necessary
with a view to rescind such assistance before end of 1986 (Guarantee Agree-
ment). The purpose of the annual review of BDET's interest rate structure
would be to limit the magnitude of any Government assistance to BDET. The
foreign exchange risk on BDET's foreign exchange resources will continue to be
borne by the Government.



- 22 -
V. BANQUE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE DE TUNISIE (BDET)
5.01      BDET will be the only financial intermediary for the proposed sector
loan. An experienced DFC like BDET can be relied upon to carry out effec-
tively the complex financing assistance program (paras 6.03-6.10). Since
1966, the Bank has channelled most of its lending to industry through BDET,
which received seven Bank loans between 1966 and 1977. The last loan for
$30 million was fully committed in June 1981. BDET was also the apex insti-
tution for the $5 million pilot credit line to small scale industries (SSIs)
and is a participant in the $35 million SSI loan approved by the Board in
April 1981 1/. Until early 1981, BDET has been the only development finance
intermediary in Tunisia oriented towards long-term lending to the industrial
private sector. As noted earlier (para 4.06), BDET has a wide technical
experience in EMI project financing. Although two new development banks have
been established (para 4.02), they just started their operations and it will
take time before they can match BDET's experience in appraising and promoting
project ideas into tangible and viable projects. Moreover, the new develop-
ment banks will not require financial resources at least until they use up
their initial share capital. Finally, lending to the commercial banks would
not be practical at this stage given the extent and depth of the promotional
effort that will be required under this loan.
A. Structure, Organization, and Procedures
5.02      Since the last Bank appraisal in 1977 2/, BDET's structure has under-
gone several changes. A capital increase from D 6 million to D 10 million
took place as planned during the period 1978-1981. In the process, the share
directly owned by the Government and other public institutions more than
doubled to 39%, but foreign shareholders, including IFC with 10%, maintained
their share at about 41%. IFC is represented on BDET's Board 3/. Overall,
BDET remains owned in majority by shareholders other than the Tunisian public
sector, and is free of major interferences from the Government in its lending
and borrowing policies. A new share capital increase is scheduled in 1982.
After subscription, BDET's capital will be doubled to D 20 million by absorp-
tion of SIAT (an investment subsidiary), incorporation of reserves, and a
paid-in capital increase of about D 6 million.   The purpose of this capital
increase is to allow BDET to match, by using its greater leverage, the resour-
ces of the new development banks. With the likely entry of new shareholders
from the Middle East, the Government participation in BDET is not expected to
increase.
5.03      BDET has been reorganized in July 1981, into five departments
(Annex 5). This consolidation should improve BDET's efficiency in the long
run. In the process, BDET's management has strengthened its control with two
new services (Personnel and Internal Auditing) now reporting directly to it.
1/ First Small Scale Industry Development Project, op. cit. (Project File,
Item 7).
2/ Seventh Loan to BDET, Staff Appraisal Report No. 1734b-TUN, November 29,
1977 (Project File, Item 6).
3/ Through its representative, IFC has continued to offer a substantial con-
tribution in helping BDET meet resource requirements while assisting in
strengthening performance and results.



- 23 -
More importantly, the Follow-up division is now attached to the Credit Depart-
ment; this change has been advocated for some time by the Bank because it will
allow staff involved with supervision to partLcipate in the appraisal of pro-
jects (para 5.08).
5.04     BDET's statutes and policy statement have not been changed since the
last Bank appraisal. Exposure limits (less than 30% of BDET's lending to
public sector enterprises, less than 25% of its financing to the tourism
sector, and less than 25% of its equity to a single borrower) have not been
constraints in recent years. They are closely monitored by BDET's Board,
which meets every quarter to approve loans and equity investments greater than
D 300,000 while small operations are approved by the Executive Committee.
This allows the Board to review formally 75-80% of the value of approvals,
representing 25-30% of the number of projects.
5.05     Since the last appraisal, BDET's management has undergone some
changes. In March 1979, an experienced banker and President of STB's sub-
sidiary in Paris was appointed Deputy General Manager. In June 1981, the
manager of the Credit Department left to head CTKD, a Tuniso-Koweiti invest-
ment joint-venture; he was replaced by the head of the Participations and
Supervision Department. In spite of these changes, continuity was ensured
under the leadership of Mr. Habib Bourguiba Jr., President and General Manager
since 1971. Staff turnover is also low, thus adding to the institution's
overall stability. Total staff increased by only 8% to 192 between March 1977
and June 1981. Support staff increased by 23% to 140 but professional staff
decreased from 60 to 50. However, staff involved in appraisal and promotion
increased from 14 to 20. To meet its considerably increased lending objec-
tives starting in 1982 (para 5.21), as well as to carry out the promotion
effort implied by the new focus on EMIs, BDEI' plans to hire additional pro-
fessional staff. Recruitment of three engineers has already taken place, and
other recruitments planned for 1982.
5.06     Project Appraisal.  BDET is an experienced DFC and its appraisal
reports are usually of a good quality. Yet there is still room for improve-
ment. Contingencies are often underestimatec.; in recent years, delays in pro-
ject realization have caused cost overruns averaging 20%. FRRs have been
found to be over-stated in several cases because they were calculated on the
basis of gross cash-flow instead of net cash-flows; this has been corrected.
Economic appraisals are too often limited to the quantification of value added
and of job created and not enough projects are submitted to the ERR test.
Although the technical aspects are usually thoroughly addressed, efforts could
be made to assess better alternative technologies, especially for projects
promoted by BDET. Strengthened formats for appraisal reports of EMI sub-
projects will be used by BDET (para. 6.09). In spite of the competition from
the new development banks (para 4.02), it is important that BDET maintain its
appraisal standards. In the context of the proposed loan, the Bank will con-
tinue to assist BDET in this area by reviewing a larger proportion of BDET
appraisal reports than under the previous loan (para 6.07).
5.07     Project Promotion.  Although created in the mid-70s, the Promotion
Department has been active only since 1978. It contributed 12% of BDET's
approvals to industry in 1978, 23% in 1979 and 5% in 1980. The department is



- 24 -
involved from the identification of project ideas, through feasibility study,
search for foreign technical partners and Tunisian promoters, to arranging the
necessary financing. Since 1980 the department's performance is assessed not
only in terms of the number of projects approved by the Board, but also on the
number of projects actually implemented, which requires that more time be
spent during project start-up. Consequently no more than half a dozen pro-
jects can be promoted per year with the current staff of seven professionals.
Expansion of the Promotion Department is under way, and total staff in the
Department would be increased by about 50% by mid-1982 when the proposed loan
is expected to become effective. The commitment to further strengthen this
Department was confirmed during negotiations (Supplemental Letter).
5.08     Project Supervision.  Since the last Bank appraisal report, which
pointed out project supervision as one of the weakest aspects of BDET's ope-
rations, follow-up has improved. BDET is now forwarding the Follow-up
division's main recommendations to the borrowers. The recent reorganization
(para 5.03) should improve the feeding of supervision information into apprai-
sal work. The current staff of four professionals is, however, insufficient
to handle the amount of work required in order to systematically follow-up
the large number of loans to and equity participations in enterprises in their
start-up period (161 out of a total of 454 clients). To increase manpower
available for supervision, BDET's management plans to involve the appraisal
staff in following up the subprojects that they appraised. Even with this
arrangement, additional staff dealing with supervision are needed. A commit-
ment from BDET was obtained during negotiations and recorded in the a supple-
mental letter to hire additional staff for supervision purposes.
B. Operations
5.09     Characteristics of Operations.  As shown in Annex 6, BDET's approvals
increased by 6.5% between 1978 and 1979 and by 5.3% between 1979 and 1980,
which is close to the growth rate (6.5% p.a.) assumed at the time of the last
appraisal, and jumped up by 90% in 1981. They had declined by 13.7% between
1977 and 1978; this decline was due to a recession and a slower growth affec-
ting respectively textiles and food processing, which obliged BDET to curtail
approvals in these two subsectors by more than 70%. The relatively modest
growth of approvals in 1979 and 1980 is due to several factors. One factor
outside BDET's control was the 21% decline in industrial investment in 1980;
other factors were BDET's recent focus on project promotion (with its inherent
year-to-year fluctuations), and on small-scale industries (with lower loan
amount per project), and the partial transfer of participations to a subsi-
diary (SIAT). The boom in 1981 approvals is mainly due to the tourism sector
(approvals increased from D 10.5 million in 1980 to D 27 million in 1981), and
secondarily to resumption of industrial investment.
5.10     On the average, 73% of BDET's approvals went to new projects as
opposed to expansion ones during 1977-80, while 75% went to the private sector
(Annex 7). Industry has accounted for 81% of total approvals since 1977
(except in 1980 when approvals to industry declined by 23%, and in 1981 when
tourism took up 53% of total approvals). Within industry, food processing was



25 -
the main recipient of BDET's financing with 26% of total approvals during
1977-80, followed by EMIs (19%) and construction materials (18%).  The share
of the tourism sector declined steadily from 22% of total approvals in 1976 to
13% in 1979 as planned by BDET, but increased to 33% in 1980 partly to comr
pensate for the slowdown of approvals to indtstry and up to 53% in 1981.
Overall BDET has become a major lender to the Tunisian manufacturing industry.
I't is estimated that BDET contributed to the financing of 44% of total manu-
facturing investments in 1980 (up from 36% in 1978), providing about one-third
of total financing requirements. At the end of 1980, BDET had in its port-
folio 44% of all long-term loans to the manuiacturing industry outstanding.
BDET's relative share, however, is expected to decrease in the future with the
competition from the new development banks (paras 4.02-4.03).
5.11     BDET's financing helped create about 4,600 jobs in 1980, and 10,300
in 1981. Although the overall average investment cost per job created was
) 18,500 in 1980, this was largely due to a :ew highly capital-intensive
projects in the public sector 1/. Actually ,mall-scale industry projects
Einanced by BDET had an average cost per job of less than D 6,000 in 1980, and
their share in total projects and jobs financed by BDET increased respectively
to 36% in 1980 (from 14% in 1978). BDET's diual strategy of lending to both
small/labor-intensive projects and large/relatively capital-intensive projects
is expected to be pursued in the future. The emphasis put by the Bank in its
two loans to SSIs on low-cost job creation is expected to keep down the
average investment cost per job of projects financed by BDET.
5.12     To complement commercial banks, which can lend only on medium-term
(up to seven years), BDET has become basically a long-term lending institu-
tion. The average maturity has been lengthened in recent years, with very few
loans made for less than nine years and practically none for less than seven
years 2/. In order to contribute to the development of the Tunisian capital
,uarket, BDET has changed in recent years the focus of investment policy from
accumulating to increasingly selling equity participations. Its equity port-
folio thus increased by 20% p.a. between 1976 and 1981 against an increase of
57% p.a. between 1972 and 1976. BDET plans to maintain a relatively high
portfolio turnover (5% in 1980) in the future to free resources for new
investments and to realize capital gains.
C. Quality of BDET's Portfolio
5.13     BDET has a well diversified and sound portfolio, which amounted to
D 111.7 million at the end of 1980 3/. Annex 8 details BDET's portfolio as of
December 31, 1980 into medium-term loans (0.2%), long-term loans (89.2%) and
equity participations (10.6%), as well as the portfolio's sectoral breakdown.
1/ A pipeline and a cigarette plant in 1979; the extension of an automobile
plant and the purchase of wagons by the national railroad in 1980.
2/ In 1980, 3% (one loan) of loan approvals were for less than 7-year matu-
rity, 41% for 7-10 years, and 56% for lCi years and above,
3/ D 121.3 million as of December 31, 1981 (latest available data; unaudited).



- 26 -
. 14     Loans in Arrears.  BDET's arrears of over three months amounted to
D 1.1 million at the end of 1980. Arrears in principal represented 1.5% of
the outstanding loan portfolio, and 2.7% including overdue interest; only 9.7%
of the portfolio was affected by arrears at the end of 1980. The 1981
accounts have not yet been finalized; some deterioration of the portfolio is
expected. Overall, BDET's portfolio is sound reflecting Tunisia's relatively
stabl,e economic situation and BDET's collection procedures. About one fourth
of total arrears at the end of 1980 were under litigation, involving thirty-
two lawsuits by BDET. Rescheduling was kept within reasonable limits. It
amounted to D 2.7 million in 1980, affecting 14% of the loan portfolio.
Without these reschedulings, the arrears would have represented 2.4% of loan
portfolio at the end of 1980 instead of 1.5%.
5.15     Loan Provisions.  BDET does not make provision for individual loans,
but for the entire loan and equity portfolio. Provisions on a case-by-case
basis are, however, discussed between BDET and its auditors to arrive at a
total provision amount that is adequate. For 1980, the auditors recommended
earmarking provisions totalling D 4.2 million, with D 2.1 million on twenty
eight loans amounting to D 10.7 million, and D 2.1 million on thirty six
equity contribution amounting to D 4.1 million. Actual provisions accumulated
by BDET at the end of 1980 amounted to D 5.0 million, and represented 4.4% of
total portfolio, which is satisfactory.
5.16     Equit  Portfolio.  BDET's equity portfolio amounted to D 11.8 million
(at acquisition cost at the end of 1980, (Annex 8) 1/ while its market value
was estimated at D 13 million. One-third of the total portfolio was invested
in the tourism sector, 8% in banks and financial institutions, and the rest in
industry. With very few exceptions (notably a hotel management company joint-
ly owned with COFIT), BDET's participations do not exceed 30% of the capital
of any company; 80% of them are in the 1% to 20% range. Out of the 126 com-
panies in BDET's equity portfolio, 31 were in difficulties or unprofitable, 47
reported profits on their 1979 operations, and among them 29 declared divi-
dends. Dividend income accruing to BDET is modest and declining, representing
1.9% of average equity investments, steadily down from 2.6% in 1976 and 5.4%
in 1973. Dividend income is, however, not BDET's primary objective in taking
participations in projects; BDET draws most of its income on participations
from capital gains (D 267,000 in 1980).
1/ D 13.0 million as of June 30, 1981 (unaudited).



- 27 -
D. Financial Performance
5.17     BDET's audited income statements and balance sheets for the years
1977 to 1980 are shown in Annexes 12 and 13 and the relevant performance indi-
cators are shown in Annex 9. BDET's profits (D 1.4 million) declined by 4.5%
in 1980 compared to 1979 and, thus, the return on equity declined from 12.3%
to 10.9%. Income from loans as percentage of the average loan portfolio was
9.1% in 1980 (down from 9.5% in 1979), while financial expenses and adminis-
trative expenses represented respectively 5.E% (5.9% in 1979) and 1.3% (1.4%
in 1979) of average total assets. Cost of term debt in percentage of average
outstanding term debt was 7.6% in 1980, thus leaving a modest spread of 1.5%,
clown from 2% in 1979 and 2.2% in 1978. This decline is entirely due to a
reduction (by 41%) of the Government subsidy in 1980 given to BDET to ensure a
3-point interest spread on loans financed wit:h foreign exchange borrowings;
without this subsidy, the spread would have been only 1.3% in 1980. Prelimi-
nary results for 1981 on the basis of unaudil:ed accounts for the first 11
months indicate an improvement of the profit picture with a spread of 2.4%
(1.7% excluding the Government subsidy). The matter of BDET's spread has been
discussed in para 4.10; starting in 1982, BD]ET will be required to maintain a
minimum spread of 2 percentage points.
5.18     Between 1977 and 1980, total assets increased by 44% to D 117.9
million 1/, outstanding long-term debts increased by 42% to D 83.7 million,
and equity increased by 66% to D 25 million. According to BDET's Policy
Statements and to the Loan Agreement for the Seventh Bank loan, BDET's term
debt-equity ratio should not exceed 8:1 2/. The actual ratio remained well
within this limit at 5.7:1 in 1978, 6.3:1 in 1979, 6.5:1 in 1980, and 7.1:1 in
1981. The debt-service ratio 3/ was healthy at 1.3 in 1980 up from 1.2 in
1979, while the interest coverage ratio remained at a satisfactory 1.3 in 1979
through 1981.
5.19     Resource Position.  BDET's resourcE position at the end of June 1981
summarized below shows a resource gap on a commitment basis of D 12.2 million
representing 9.4% of total available resources. BDET has traditionally been
successful in mobilizing foreign currency resources from concessionary lenders
such as ADB, EIB and KfW for a total of D 9.7 million in 1980. A special
effort has been made by BDET since 1980 to mobilize Dinar resources, tradi-
tionally a weak point. The rediscount facility with BCT was increased by 80%
to D 4.5 million and, early in 1981, a bond issue was subscribed for about D 2
million.
1/ D 131.3 million as of December 31, 1981 (unaudited).
2/ In the debt/equity ratio definition, a reserve for equity participations
reinvestments is excluded from BDET's equity.
3/ Defined as earnings before interest and tax, plus loan collections, over
payments (in principal and interest) on borrowings.



- 28 -
TUNISIA: BDET Resource Position as of June 30, 1981
(D 1   US$2)
Resources                                      D'000                      Percentage
Equity, reserves and provisions                18,161                        14.1
Local borrowings                               30,999                        24.0
IBRD loans                                     23,146                        17.9
Other foreign borrowings                       56,759                        44.0
129,165                      100.0
Portfolio
Loans outstanding                         )
Investments                               )   110,061
Others                                             529
110,590
Resources available for disbursements          18,575
Less undisbursed commitments                   30,743
Resource gap on a commitment basis             12,168
5.20     Audit.  Audits at BDET are carried out jointly by Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell and Company and the Tunisian firm, Cabinet Finor. Their review of
BDET's portfolio and financial results is satisfactory and the audit report
has been discussed by the Board in presence of the auditors since FY1978. The
1980 Audit report did not qualify BDET accounts and made only minor comments.
E. Projected Operations and Finance
5.21      BDET's projected operations are given in Annex 11 and their under-
lying assumptions in Annex 10. They have been reviewed in detail by the Bank
and found satisfactory. Although BDET's capital increase proposal has not yet
been submitted to the Board, BDET's projections assume that its share capital
will increase to D 30 million by 1985, thus allowing BDET to increase consi-
derably its borrowings and, hence, its lending. During the two-year period
1982-83 -- which corresponds roughly to the commitment period for the proposed
loan to BDET -- loan approvals would increase by 66% compared to the two year
period 1979-80, and due to the absorption of SIAT (para 5.02), equity parti-
cipations approvals would increase faster (by 256%); loan commitments would
increase by 123% and equity participations commitments by 223%; and total dis-
bursements would increase by 56% 1/. Based on the pipeline of projects iden-
tified in EMIs (Annex 14), on the pending applications as of March 31, 1981,
which amounted to D25.5 million of financing, and on the rate of new
1/ Due to time lags between approvals, commitments and disbursements, the
1981 boom in approvals will lead to a boom in commitments in 1982 and 1983
and in disbursements in 1983-1985. After 1984, approvals and disburse-
ments are projected to stabilize at 180% of their 1979-1980 level (120% in
real terms).



- 29 -
applications (about D 15 million per quarter), BDET should be able to meet its
target of about D 54 million of approvals p.a. during 1982-83. BDET plans to
achieve this by both scaling up its promotior. efforts (in EMIs and SSIs) and
by increasing its financing exposure in largE projects.
5.22     In the financial projections reviewed by the Bank (Annexes 12 and
13), it is assumed that, due to a substantial recourse to costly foreign
borrowings (TD 53 million), the average cost of debt would increase from 7.5%
of average debt in 1982 to 8.4% in 1983 and 8.9% in 1986, while the yield on
average loan portfolio would increase from 9.0% to 9.4% and 10.9% in the same
years, without Government subsidy but assuming half percentage point increase
in BDET's lending rate every year. However, assurances were obtained during
negotiations from the Government (as recorded in the Guarantee Agreement) that
the necessary arrangements would be made to ensure BDET a minimum spread of 2
points (para.4.10); in addition to increases in its lending rates and greater
access to cheaper resources on the local financial market, BDET has asked from
the Government a new form of assistance by subsidizing interest rates exceed-
ing 8% on foreign resources. Such assistance would be required until 1985 to
ensure a minimum spread of 2% and to allow B])ET to remunerate its increasing
capital at the minimum 8% of par value required by its shareholders and keep
provisions at a level judged adequate by its auditors (at least 4% of the
total outstanding portfolio). The return on average net worth is expected to
decrease from 10.9% in 1980 to a minimum of 7.4% in 1983, due to the share
capital increase, and to increase to 10.0% ili 1985 and 1986. Although BDET
plans to borrow about D 177 million during 1982-86 to meet its financing
requirements, the planned capital increase will help the long-term debt-equity
ratio decline from 7.1:1 in 1981 to 6.4:1 in 1983 and 6.1:1 in 1986. The debt
service ratio is projected to improve from 1.1 in 1981 to 1.3 afterwards,
while the interest coverage ratio will remaia at or above 1.2 (Annex 12).
F. Resource Requirements
5.23     BDET's resource gap on a commitment basis amounted to D 12.2 million
as of June 30, 1981 (para 5.19). BDET's projected resource requirements and
financing plan for 1982-83 are summarized below:
TUNISIA - BDET: Resource Requirements 1982-83
(D million)
Foreign        Local
Exchange      Currency      Total
Resource Requirements (1982-83)                      54.20        39.00         93.20
Resource Gap (estimated at 12-31-81)                  4.60         4.70           9.30
58.80        43.70        102.50
Financing Plan
Cash generation                                                9.25          9.25
Net loan collection                                           11.55         11.55
Disbursement on existing resources                1.30         4.45          5.75
Share capital increase                                         6.65          6.65
Subtotal                                       1.30        31.90         33.20
Identified resources (excluding
new proposed Bank loan)                            43.30         5.00         48.80
Total identified resources                           44.60        36.90          81.50
Resource Gap (1982-83)                               14.20         6.80          21.00



- 30 -
BDLE  projected the resource gap in foreign currencies to be D 4.6 million
(US$9.2 million) at the end of 1981. Moreover, foreign exchange resource
requirements to meet lending commitments during 1982-83 are estimated at
D 54.1 million (US$108.3 million). BDET has already identified D 25.3 million
(US$50.6 million) of concessionary resources (French and Italian Governments,
KfW, ADB) and expects to be able to mobilize D 18 million (US$36 million)
additionally from FADES and EIB during 1982-83. The proposed credit line to
BDET (US$28.0 million) would cover most of the remaining foreign exchange
resource gap and would represent 25% of all long-term resources to be mobi-
lized abroad by BDET during 1982-83. Disbursements in Dinars 1/ on loans and
participations are projected at D 39 million during 1982-83. The planned
capital increase will provide D 6.7 million, net loan collection D 11.6
million, cash generation D 8.2 million, sales of equity portfolio D 1 million
and local bond issues D 5 million, that is a total of D 32.5 million. To
avoid any gap in Dinar disbursements, BDET's practice since 1980 has been to
borrow short-term Euro-currencies and then consolidate the bridge loans when
long-term resources are mobilized. It is expected that, in line with its
commitments (para 5.23), the Government will allow BDET to raise large Dinar
resources on the Tunisian financial market.
1/ Given that BDET has been traditionally meeting its financing requirements
in Dinars on a disbursement basis, to express BDET's Dinar resource gap on
a disbursement basis is more meaningful.



- 31 -
VI. ThE PROJECr
Project Objectives
6.01     The main objectives of the proposed project are the following:
a. To promote the efficient development of EMIs and other industries by
financing, through a line of credit to BDET, new and modernization/
rehabilitation projects in priority subsectors.
b.  To increase the delivery of technical assistance to EMIs in two com-
plementary ways by:
(i)  fostering product quality by es:ablishing standards and quality
control of products through the establishment of an Institute
for Standardization and Quality Control of industrial products;
and
(ii) delivering technical assistance to EMI firms and providing
on-the-job training using the services of a Technical Center
(CTM) to be established.
c. To help implement changes in incentives specific to EMIs in the areas
of protection, exports and financing.
These objectives are in line with those set hy the Government for the EMI
sector in the Sixth Plan (1982-86). Because most EMIs are inherently labor
intensive, the proposed project de facto wilL also address the important
government objective of employment creation during the Sixth Plan.
Project Description
6.02     The proposed project aims at meeting these objectives through the
following components as follows:
a. A loan to BDET (US$30 million), composed of a US$28.0 million credit
line subdivided in two parts earmarked to finance respectively EMIs
(US$14 million) and other industrial subprojects (US$14 million)
(para 6.04), and of a US$2 million subloan to the Government to
finance part of the technical assistance component (para. 6.11).
b.  A technical assistance component fcr EMIs through a Technical Center
(CTM) to be set up; its foreign exchange operating costs (US$1.5
million) for the first two years would be financed under the proposed
subloan to the Government (paras 6,11-17).
c.  An Institute for Standardization and Quality Control of industrial
products to be set up; the foreign exchange cost of technical assis-
tance to the Institute (US$300,000) would be financed under the pro-
posed subloan to the Government (paras 6.18-20).



- 32 -
d.  A study of effective protection in manufacturing, with priority to
EMIs, in the context of an incentive package for EMIs (paras
6.21-6.25); the foreign exchange cost of technical assistance for the
study (US$200,000) would be financed under the proposed subloan to
the Government (para 6.22).
e. A front-end fee of US$0.5 million.
Also, two studies would be undertaken to define long-term development stra-
tegies for the platework and foundry subsectors (paras 6.26-27). The proposed
allocation of Bank funds is summarized in the table below;
Allocation of Proposed Bank Loan
Amount
(US$million)
Loan to BDET,                                                            30.5
of which:
a)  Credit Line                                                        28.0
Part A:   Credit line for EMI priority subsectors   14.0
Part B:   Credit Line for general purpose
lending to industry                        14.0
b)  Technical Assistance Subloan to the Government                      2.0
Part C:   (i) the CTM                                    1.5
(ii) the Institute for Standardization
and Quality Control                     0.3
(iii) the Effective Protection Study            0.2
c)  Front-end Fee                                                       0.5
A. Financial Assistance
6.03     Overall Lending Target in EMIs for BDET.  To maximize financing of
EMI projects irrespective of the source of funds, BDET agreed to commit itself
to a minimum lending target in EMIs. On the basis of BDET's past lending to
EMIs, its projected lending to industry (Annex 11), and an analysis of its
pipeline in EMIs (Annex 14), a lending target of at least $30 million equiva-
lent of commitments for EMIs over the two-year period mid 1982-mid 1984 was
agreed upon.  This target, representing 14% of projected commitment during the
same period, is more than twice the amount of Bank funds to be earmarked for
direct EMI financing (para 6.04). Annually, this will represent a doubling of
BDET's commitments to EMIs over the annual average achieved during 1977-80.
Moreover, BDET agreed that at least two-thirds of this lending target would go
to the priority EMI subsectors, as identified in paras 3.12-3.14. These two
targets were recorded in the Loan Agreement. BDET's minimum lending target of
US$30 million in EMIs should finance projects with a total cost of US$80
million equivalent or about 20% of projected investments in EMIs over the next
two years. These investments will help create about 6,000 jobs at an average
investment cost of about US$13,500, generate sales totalling US$45 million
p.a. and save about US$30 million p.a. in foreign exchange.



- 33 -
6.04     Allocation of the Credit Line.  BDEr requested that one half of the
proposed credit line be available for generaL purpose lending to industry.
BDET wants to retain some flexibility in managing its borrowed resources, many
of which are tied to specific types and sizes of subprojects (such as the last
KfW loan which is SSI-oriented) or to particular sources of procurement (such
as the French and Italian credit lines). ThLs request is reasonable given
BDET's commitment to the above lending target, and since it will still allow
the Bank to review a sufficient number of EMX subprojects (para 6.07). It was
therefore agreed that the credit line ($28.0 million) be divided in two parts:
a part A of $14.0 million to finance subprojects in priority EMI subsectors,
and a part B of $14.0 million for general purpose lending to industry.
6.05     Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  The proposed credit line under
parts A and B will finance the direct foreign exchange cost of machinery and
equipment for industrial projects. In line with recent Bank financing to BDET
for general purposes, it will be open to any subproject that is technically
sound, and financially and economically viable, i.e. meeting the test of a
minimum FRR of 12% and a minimum ERR of 10% (the difference between these two
thresholds reflecting the difference between the estimated current economic
and financial opportunity costs of capital in Tunisia).
6.06     In addition, EMI subprojects to be financed under part A or to be
accounted for BDET's lending target to priority EMIs (para 6.03) would have to
meet the following specific eligibility criteria;
a.  They should be in one of the priority subsectors, defined as EMI
goods for which, at the time of Barnk approval, the nominal tariff
duty would be lower than 18%, and the steel structure and platework
subsector for which the nominal tariff duty would be reduced to
21% 1/. Moreover, in the case of projects which the Government would
consider necessary to protect also through import licencing proce-
dures, the Government would ensure that:
(i) arrangements will be made betwgeen the Tunisian firm and foreign
associates to guarantee that l:he new products to be developed
under the project would meet qluality standards satisfactory to
the Government;
(ii) the Tunisian promotors substanitiate their expectations to pro-
duce at an ex-factory price not exceeding 118% of the comparable
foreign price (as defined in para 3.27) after the first three
years of operation and will sill at such a price during these
first three years; and
(iii)  the project output will be subjected to, as to be understood by
the project promotors, increasing import competition whenever,
after the first three years of operation, the ex-factory price
of the project output would exceed the 118% benchmark.
For steel structure and platework projects, the benchmark would be
121% of the comparable foreign price.
1/   See paras 3.22-3.27 for details on the protection situation in EMIs.



- 34 -
b.   Export-oriented EMI subprojects in non-priority subsectors will also
be eligible if they are based on buy-back arrangements with foreign
partners covering at least 70% of the subproject output and if appro-
priate evidence of the buy-back arrangements is submitted.
c.   Subprojects should be in the private sector 1/.
d.   Subprojects should not exceed a total investment cost--including
permanent working capital needs--of $12 million equivalent. To
finance a minimum number of EMI subprojects, sub-loans will be
limited to $2 million per subproject. Permanent working capital
needs will be financed with medium-term credits granted either
directly by BDET or co-financed with a commercial bank (para 4.08).
6.07     No free limit is granted under part A to allow Bank review of all EMI
subprojects and a feedback to BDET on its lending orientations in EMIs. It is
estimated, based on BDET's pipeline in EMIs (Annex 14), that up to twelve sub-
projects could be submitted to the Bank under part A, with most of the subloans
ranging from US$500,000 to US$1.0 million. In addition, all other priority
EMI projects financed by BDET will be reviewed by the Bank and one out of
three subprojects financed by BDET in non priority EMI subsectors will be sent
to the Bank for ex-post information and review. For part B, it was agreed to
use the free limit agreed under Loan 1504-TUN after adjusting for inflation
and exchange rate fluctuations since 1977. The free limit will thus be
D 500,000 (US$1 million equivalent). It is estimated that about eighteen sub-
projects will be submitted to the Bank under part B; at least twelve of them,
with subloans totalling US$5 million, would fall under the free limit.
6.08     Link with the Technical Assistance Scheme.  BDET will assess the need
for technical assistance of all subprojects that it will finance in either
platework or mechanical works -- subsectors on which the proposed technical
assistance scheme will focus (para 6.12).   CTM will propose for each sub-
project a technical assistance action program which would be reviewed by BDET.
Both the CTM proposal and the BDET review will be included in the subproject
appraisal report. An agreement on the scope of and timetable for the techni-
cal assistance program to be implemented should be reached between the con-
cerned promoter and BDET before the subproject is submitted to the Bank for
approval.
6.09     Appraisal Format.  BDET's appraisal reports for EMI subprojects eli-
gible under Part A of the credit line will include, as recorded in the Loan
Agreement, the following information:
a.   When local integration is contemplated, the list of components should
be provided and detailed between components to be imported, those
purchased from Tunisian manufacturers, and those manufactured by the
promoter; the local cost/CIF price ratios for each component to be
produced or purchased locally should also be estimated.
1/ i.e., any subproject in which the State owns directly and indirectly less
than 50% of equity participation.



- 35 -
b. Permanent working capital needs, either initial in the case of a new
project or additional in the case of extension of production capa-
city, should be estimated and justified; these needs will be eligible
for medium-term financing to be provided by BDET or obtained from
commercial banks by BDET.
c.  In the case of export-oriented subprcjects in EMI priority (at least
30% of total sales) or non priority (at least 70% of sales) sub-
sectors, prospects of markets abroad and the subproject's ability to
export should be analyzed and assessed.
d.  A detailed status of the protection granted, or to be granted, to the
subproject, specifying the duties and taxes levied on imports and, if
any, the quota protection (level, schedule and duration of quota).
e.  In the case of subprojects protected by import licencing and quota,
the comparable foreign prices should be quoted and compared to the
projected prices of the subproject's output, and the non-confidential
features of arrangements made (technical assistance or licencing
contract with foreign firms, other local arrangements) to ensure
acceptable specifications and quality standards of the products.
f.  When requested by the Bank, simplified computation of the effective
protection to be enjoyed by the project (with foreign prices used
only for output and tradable inputs but not for production factors).
g.  For subprojects in platework or mechanical works, the technical
assistance program proposed by CTM and agreed upon by BDET and the
promoter (para 6.08).
6.10     Procurement and Disbursements.  BDET's procurement and disbursement
procedures are satisfactory: appraisal reports usually describe in detail and
justify the equipment to be purchased, its technical characteristics, the
names of suppliers and prices quoted. Procurement will continue to be carried
out, as under previous loans, in accordance with BDET procedures which re-
quire, in particular, borrowers to obtain at least three price quotations from
suppliers/contractors 1/. These aspects of,procurement were recorded in the
Loan Agreement and the agreed minutes of negotiations.
B. Technical Assistance to EMIs
6.11     Technical assistance is a fundamental part of this project.  It
extends well beyond the scope of financial assistance since it aims at
covering the entire EMI sector. Few institutions in Tunisia are able to meet
the technical assistance needs of EMIs. This project will therefore help
1/  International competitive bidding procedures were discussed with BDET and
considered difficult to implement under the proposed project, in view of
the small size of components to be refinanced by the Bank loan (maximum
US$2 million and average US$1 million p4er project), the wide variety of
equipment needs and specifications related to each project's output and
quality standards, and the technical re,ommendations of the projects'
foreign partners or associates.



- 36 -
create two new technical assistance agencies to respond to the priority needs
of EMIs. These are (i) a Technical Center focusing on EMIs to support the
accelerated development of the subsector expected over the Sixth Plan and
beyond. The Government accepted the Bank proposal to set up such a Center,
called Centre Technique de la Mecanique (CTM); and (ii) an Institute for
Standardization and Quality Control to give EMIs the basis for improving the
quality of their products. It was agreed that the technical assistance
requirements for these new institutions be financed out of the US$2 million
subloan to the Government, which will also provide for the Effective Protec-
tion study on manufacturing, to cover the foreign exchange costs of the con-
sultants (salaries, fees, travel) under Part C of the project.
6.12     CTM - Scope and Activities.  In a first phase, the proposed CTM will
deliver technical assistance to two priority subsectors where the potential
for efficient projects are the highest and the needs for technical assistance
are the most urgent. These are: steel structure/plateworks, and mechanical
works (para 3.08). The range of technical services offered to enterprises in
these subsectors would comprise initially:
a.  In-plant guidance and trouble-shooting to resolve production problems
(e.g., reorganize plant layout and work flow; remove bottlenecks;
improve product quality; demonstrate to workers and technicians
appropriate and more efficient practices with regards to machinery
and tools utilization as well as their maintenance).
b.  Assistance to firms in their efforts to rationalize existing product
mix, to adapt/adopt new and appropriate products 1/, to plan and
prepare new or expansion investments.
c. Advice to firms in the design and improvement of cutting tools and
die metals.
6.13     Although the training of technicians is crucial to the development of
EMIs, CTM would limit itself, at least during the first two years, to custom-
ized in-plant demonstrations because there is a sufficient number of formal
professional training programs already provided by several institutions (para
2.06). In the longer term, CTM could participate in the training programs
organized by these institutions, and eventually organize com,plementary trai-
ning actions on specialized technical aspects of EMIs (e.g. seminar on methods
to prevent metal corrosion, adapted to Tunisian conditions and quality of raw
materials, foundry technology).
6.14     CTM's services will be offered to all firms in the two priority sub-
sectors regardless of size. Yet firms seeking assistance will likely be
small- and medium-sized because the large firms often obtain technical assis-
tance directly from their foreign technical partners.  During its first two
1/  CTM would also coordinate with API's current efforts to promote subcon-
tracting arrangements between small and larger firms within a subsector
and between subsectors. These efforts, started under the Bank SSI Pilot
Project (Loan 1505-TUN), are continued under the SSI I Project (Loan
1969-TUN). They will also be strengthened by the activities of the Stan-
dardization Institute (para. 6.18).



- 37 -
years of activity, it is expected that the CTM would provide in-depth assis-
tance to about 20-30 small- and medium-size firms in the two priority subsec-
tors, not counting numerous spot assistance actions in other EMI subsectors.
6.15     CTM will be an autonomous semi-public institution created under MNE.
To carry out its assistance in tools and dies, CTM will absorb the existing
Centre Pilote de l'Outillage (CPO), located in Sousse. The CPO was created in
1971 with the original objectives of training, development and fabrication of
tools and dies as needed by enterprises. Over time, however, the CPO has con-
centrated mostly on production of dies, essen:ially because of deteriorating
human and financial resources. The main beneEit of integrating the CPO within
the CTM (as a Tools and Dies Department) is tD help re-orient and strengthen
its tools and dies activities along the very -orthwhile original objectives,
using the human and financial resources being proposed for the CTM. To encou-
rage private EMI firms to accept more readily CTM's services, four of the nine
members of CTM's Board, including its Chairman, would be representatives from
the private sector, of which three should be from small- and medium-size firms
(i.e.,. with net fixed assets lower than D 3 million). The General Director
of the CTM would be recruited on the basis of his management and technical ex-
perience, preferably in the private sector. The drafts of the Law and Decree
establishing the CTM were reviewed by a Bank mission in September 1981 and
during negotiations (Project File, Item 2). The final texts are scheduled to
be submitted shortly to the Parliament. Given the importance of the technical
assistance scheme in this project and the advanced stage of legal processing
of the CTM, it was confirmed during negotiations that the signature of the
Decree establishing the CTM and the appointmcnt of its General Director be
made conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
6.16     Initially CTM will have a minimum core of staff composed of eighteen
Tunisians (six engineers and twelve technicians) and of eight experienced
foreign experts. The team of foreign expertis will be headed by a senior engi-
neer, whose task will be to assist in the management of CTM and formulate its
program. The other foreign experts will carry out technical assistance acti-
vities, with the following specializations: two production engineers (one
experienced in steel structure/plateworks and one in mechanical works); one
product development and design engineer; and four senior technicians (one
experienced in welding; one in mechanical works; one in tooling and one in
dies). Draft terms of reference for all these experts were agreed to with the
Tunisian authorities and are available (Project File, Item 2). The Tunisian
engineers and technicians (in a ratio of two Tunisians to one foreign expert
for the engineers, and three to one for the technicians) will be expected to
carry out the whole technical assistance program once the foreign experts have
completed their work after about two years. To ensure that EMI subprojects
financed under the Bank loan receive the necessary technical assistance (para
6.08), at least half of the team of foreign experts (including the head of the
team) should be in place no later than October 1st, 1982. This was recorded
in the Guarantee Agreement.
6.17     CTM's operational costs in foreign exchange are estimated at US$1.5
million equivalent for the first two years to cover the foreign experts' sala-
ries (192 man-months at about US$7,500 per man-month), the expenses for addi-
tional external consultancy services as neecled, and some training abroad for
the Tunisian counterparts. It was agreed tthat this amount be financed out of



38-
he~ lxoceeds of the US$2 million subloan to be made by BDET to the Tunisian
Goverament, subloan to carry terms (interest rate and maturity) identical to
those granted by the Bank to BDET.  The experts will be selected in accordance
with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 In
any event, the Bank will approve the final terms of reference for the foreign
experts and will review the technical assistance program for the first two
years. CTM's activity will also be reviewed regularly in the context of Bank
supervision missions and MNE will have CTM prepare an annual report describing
past and projected activities. The Government agreed to finance the operating
expenses of CTM in Dinars (estimated at D 100,000-150,000 p.a.) by the State
Budget; D 101,000 have been earmarked to that effect in the Finance Law for
1982. Given the importance of establishing the technical assistance scheme as
soon as possible, the signature of this $2 million subloan between BDET and
the Government was made a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
All the above arrangements were recorded in the legal documents.
6.18     Institute for Standardization and Quality Control.  This Institute
will aim at standardizing Tunisian industrial products in general, and EMI
goods in particular. Its creation had been one of the recommendations of the
Bank EMI sector report. While the idea of a National Standardization Insti-
tute was in gestation, MNE set up in July 1980 a Standardization and Quality
Control Division within the Industry Directorate to prepare standards. In
less than a year and with limited means, a dozen standards (of which seven for
EMI products) were prepared in close cooperation with the manufacturers con-
cerned, and about seventeen more EMI standards were under preparation. During
this process, a consensus emerged among manufacturers on the need to set up a
National Institute to develop standards on a larger scale and at a faster
pace, and to ensure that those standards are adhered to. In March 1981, the
Tunisian authorities decided to establish the Institute.
6.19     The Institute will be a semi-public, autonomous agency under the
aegis of MNE. It will be responsible for preparing and issuing standards in
cooperation with manufacturers, and for ensuring that goods are produced in
accordance with them. It will be assisted by the existing laboratories to
perform the necessary tests and controls.  During its first two years, the
Institute would start off with a minimum core of about ten technical staff and
would be able to produce each year about thirty standards while adapting a
greater number of existing international standards. EMIs will be among the
first priorities of the Institute's work program. The draft Law and Decree
estabLishing the Institute (Project File, Item 3) were reviewed during nego-
tiations. The signature of the Decree establishing the Institute will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, and a Government commitment
to financially support the Institute was confirmed during negotiations.
D 240,000 have been earmarked in the Finance Law for 1982 to cover the Insti-
tute's current and capital expenditures during the first year. These arrange-
ments were recorded in the loan documents.
6.20.    To assist MNE in setting up the Institute, it was agreed to finance
out of the proceeds of the $2 million subloan to the Government (para. 6.17),
the costs of services of three foreign experts in standardization (30 man-
months at about US$10,000 per man-month, that is US$300,000). The first
expert (whose preliminary terms of reference have been prepared by the Bank



- 39 -
(Project File, Item 4)) will advise MNE on the main orientations and priori-
ties of the standardization program, and make concrete recommendations on the
Institute's scope of activities, administrative organization, work procedures,
staffing and budget; he will also prepare the terms of reference of the two
other experts (one in standardization, one in quality control) which would
come subsequently for one year each. These recommendations and the final
terms of reference will be reviewed by the Bark. These arrangements were
recorded in the loan documents. MNE agreed during negotiations to appoint a
project coordinator to do the preparation wort: for setting up the CTM, hiring
its Director and the foreign experts for the CTM and the Institute of Stan-
dardization, and to expedite the overall implementation of Part C of the
project (Minutes of Negotiations).
C. Protection and Incentive Framework for EMIs
6.21     Protection and Incentives for CapitaL Goods Industries.  In order to
introduce appropriate protection measures as well as sufficient incentives for
the development of local capital goods industries and for competitiveness and
efficiency improvement, agreement was confirmed during negotiations that the
Government would:
a.   apply existing tariff duties on imports of EMI capital goods and
supplies which could be produced in Tunisia 1/. A preliminary list
of such products was worked out by the Government, and was reviewed
by the Bank during negotiations; MNE agreed to publish this list
before July 31, 1982 through an ArrOt4 to be used systematically by
the authorities responsible for granting tariff exemptions and import
licences.
b.   decrease current tariff duties on steel structure and platework
products from 26% to 21% (it was agreed that this would be enacted
through an Arrete before July 31, 1982);
c.   maintain below 18% the tariff duties on products referred to in a)
above, and consult with the Bank be:-ore it increases any of these
duties above 18%, or above 21% for steel structure and platework
products; and
d.   take appropriate measures to ensure that priority EMI products pro-
tected by import licencing procedures be charged reasonably competi-
tive prices in comparison with similar foreign products (para 6.06).
These commitments were recorded in a supplemental letter to the Guarantee
Agreement.
1/ The Investment Code (Law 74-74, revised by Law 81-56) includes a provision
to that effect, but it has not been applied effectively (para 3.22). The
alternative exemption of capital goods and supplies industries from duties
and taxes on their inputs would be, however, impractical because, under
the principles regulating the Tunisian fiscal system, taxes and duties are
attached to the products (e.g. steel plates) and not to the users (e.g.
platework industry, as opposed to steel wholesalers).



- 40 -
6.22     It was also agreed with the Government that the appropriate levels of
protection for EMI would be subsequently discussed in the context of an Effec-
tive Protection study for manufacturing to be carried out in the context of
the project. The Tunisian Economic Research Agency of the Ministry of
Planning and Finance (Institute Ali Bach Hamba) would be in charge of it 1/,
and would receive technical assistance for this purpose according to terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; it was agreed that the foreign exchange
cost of this technical assistance (up to $200,000, for up to two man-years of
foreign experts) be financed out of the $2 million Technical Assistance Sub-
loan to the Government (para 6.17).
6.23     Incentive to Industrial Exports.  The Government has agreed, at the
Bank's suggestion, to a review of the procedures designed to allow industrial
producers (in particular in EMIs) who export infrequently or under short
notice to recover the custom duties they pay on the imported inputs used in
the manufacture of exports. Even though such procedures are provided for in
the 1971 law, they are not being applied; this discourages local firms from
seeking contracts abroad. A review of these procedures, begun in July 1981,
was carried out by a Government task force. After studying various refund
formulas, the choice was made to streamline existing procedures by requiring
the refund authorization from one authority only (Customs). The Bank had con-
cluded that this solution would be satisfactory. The task force's proposal
was submitted to the Government, and the final text was incorporated in the
Finance Law for 1982. The text was reviewed during negotiations and was
considered acceptable to the Bank. Refunding procedures will be defined by an
ArrZt6 to be published shortly.
6.24     Financing of EMI Activities.  BCT agreed that permanent working
capital needs of EMI subprojects would be eligible for medium-term financing
(paras 4.08 and 6.06). This was recorded in the loan documents. To broaden
and expand the utilization of the special production credit facility (para.
4.07), BCT also agreed to extend the current list of eligible EMI products to
the list of all EMI equipment goods manufactured in Tunisia (as to be estab-
lished by MNE - para 6.21(a)). BCT will publish the extended list in a cir-
cular to be issued after MNE has published its list. This was reflected in
the agreed minutes of negotiations.
6.25     Information on Available Incentives.  To improve the information on
incentives available to EMI producers, the Tunisian authorities have agreed to
advertise the existing incentive framework and the new measures (paras. 6.21
to 6.24). To that effect, API will prepare, with the assistance of the
1/ The Ali Bach Hamba Institute carried out in 1975, with Canadian technical
assistance, a study on effective protection in the Tunisian economy using
the 1972 input-output table, detailed in 130 sectors. Based on border
prices, the study estimated protection rates and domestic resource costs
for each sector and assessed the impact of various tariff and exchange
rate policies. ("La Protection Effective des Branches d'Activite de
l'Economie Tunisienne: Mesure et Analyse", report jointly published by the
Institut Ali-Bach-Hamba and by Similar International Inc. in Montreal,
July 31, 1975).



- 41 -
concerned ministries, a booklet summarizing incentives available to all
industries and detailing incentives specific to EMIs. This booklet would be
published before July 31, 1982. This was confirmed during negotiations
(Agreed Minutes).
D. Sectoral StLdies
6.26     The Government agreed on the need for detailed subsector studies with
priority to be given to two subsectors -- fou.ndries and platework -- which
have potential for efficient import-substitution but require rationalisation
(paras 3.06-3.08). These studies would:
(i) identify economically efficient EMI product lines based on a suffi-
ciently large local market and on relatively simple technological
processes;
(ii) propose to rationalize and specialize productions between firms and
outline investment programs for them;  and
(iii)  define long-term development strategies for these two subsectors.
6.27     In June 1981, MNE commissioned BTKD 1/ to do a study of the platework
subsector. At MNE's request, the Bank prepared draft terms of reference for
the sectoral part of the study. The study, l:o be carried out by a Tunisian
consulting firm with the assistance of a major European platework firm, is
scheduled to be completed before July 1982. The Bank will, upon its comple-
tion, review it and discuss with the Government its proposed strategy for the
development of the platework subsector. Moreover, in the context of both the
SOFOMECA project 2/ and this project, the Bank, in agreement with the Govern-
rnent, carried out a sectoral study of the fouindry subsector to propose a stra-
tegy for the development of foundries. The study was completed, and given to
the.Tunisian delegation during negotiations. The Bank will discuss with the
Government the conclusions and recommendatio,2s of this study to reach an
understanding on the desirable strategy for the development of the foundry
subsector. It was agreed during negotiations that these two studies will be
reviewed and discussed by the Bank and the GDvernment before September 30,
1982 (Guarantee Agreement). An understanding was reached also with BDET that
it will submit to Bank financing subprojects in these two subsectors only
after the Bank and the Government agree on the development strategies to be
implemented in these two subsectors (Minutes of Negotiations).
E. Project Benefits and Risks
Benefits
6.28 BDET's minimum lending target of US$30 million in EMIs (para 6.03)
should finance projects whose total cost is US$80 million equivalent over the
next two years, or about 20% of projected investments in EMIs. These invest-
ments will help create about 6,000 jobs at an average investment cost of about
1/ BTKD is one of the new development banks established in 1981 (para 4.02).
2/ SOFOMECA is Tunisia's largest foundry, for which the Bank is preparing a
possible loan of $15 million for FY83.



42 -
USS13,500 (at 1980 prices).  While some of these projects will generate ex-
ports, they will be primarily for import-substitution of capital and interme-
diate goods. They will generate estimated sales of US$45 million p.a., and
save about US$30 million p.a. of foreign exchange to Tunisia. As a conse-
quence of the focus of BDET's lending and the Plan on EMI priority subsectors,
the importance of priority subsectors within EMIs will increase substantially;
they will receive 45% of total EMI investments during 1983-84 and generate 75%
of future EMI incremental output. Thus, the project will be instrumental in
supporting (or re-orienting) EMI investments towards activities where Tunisia
has a strong comparative advantage. EMIs' product quality and productivity
will be improved through the creation of a National Institute for Standardiza-
tion and Quality Control; and the Technical Center for EMIs will deliver for
the first time a comprehensive technical assistance program to Tunisian EMI
firms. A better knowledge of the foundry and platework subsectors will also
help the Government formulate a balanced development strategy in these subsec-
tors. Better sector knowledge will also derive from the important promotional
effort to be undertaken by BDET to meet the lending target of US$30 million of
commitments for EMIs over the next two years; BDET has already taken steps to
hire additional staff for that purpose. These improvements should benefit
directly not only subprojects to be financed under the proposed credit line
but all EMIs, and this should lead to a faster growth of the sector. The pro-
ject finally provides a vehicle for pursuing in a concrete way the fruitful
sector dialogue with the Tunisian authorities with respect to protection and
policies affecting EMIs - a point of potential importance now that the Sixth
Plan (1982-86) gives priority to EMIs within the industrial sector.
Risks
6.29     The major risk of the proposed project is that the complex institu-
tion-building efforts, including the technical assistance program, could be
delayed for a variety of reasons. The quality of the institutions and their
effectiveness in assisting EMI development remains also uncertain. This risk
is, however, manageable and well worth taking. The Bank will assist the
Tunisian Government in minimizing this risk through closer supervision of the
various components of the proposed project.



- 43 -
VII. RECOMMENDAT':ONS
7.01     The proposed loan of US$30.0 million to BDET, composed of a US$28.0
million credit line for the financing of EMIs subprojects and of other indus-
trial subprojects, and of a US$2.0 million subloan to the Tunisian Government
to finance the foreign exchange costs of experts and consultants to the CTM,
the Standardization Institute, and the Bach Hamba Institute, is suitable for
Bank financing, given that the following agreements and understandings were
reached during negotiations.
A. General Features of the Loan
7.02     The credit line (US$28.0 million) wculd be available to finance any
EMI subproject under Part A and any industrial subproject under Part B meeting
agreed eligibility criteria (paras 6.05-06). The final date for submission of
subprojects to the Bank would be December 31, 1984 1/, and the closing date
would be December 31, 1987 2/. The subloan to the Government (US$2.0 million)
would be available to finance the foreign exchange cost of experts to be hired
by (a) the CTM for a total of 192 man-months, or an average of US$7,500 per
man-month (para 6.17), (b) the Institute for Standardization and Quality Con-
trol for a total of 30 man-months, or about US$10,000 per man-month (para
6.20), and (c) the Bach Hamba Institute for a total of 20 man-months, or about
US$10,000 per man-month (para. 6.06). The loan would be repaid according to a
composite amortization schedule not to exceed fifteen years, including three
years of grace, and reflecting the amortization schedule of the subloans. The
loan is subject to a front-end fee of US$0.5 million.
B. Agreements and Understandings reached during
Negotiations concerning the Proposed Loan to BDET
7.03
(a)  BDET to target at least US$30 million of financing to EMIs, of which
at least two-thirds to priority EMI subsectors, during the period
June 1982-June 1984 (Loan Agreement) (para 6.03).
(b) Definition of eligibility criteria for EMI and other industrial sub-
projects (Loan Agreement) (paras 6.05-6.06).
(c) Allocation of the loan amount showing parts A and B of the credit
line and the Technical Assistance subloan to the Government (Loan
Agreement) (paras 6.04 and 6.17).
(d) No free limit for subloans under Part A, and review by the Bank of
all priority EMI projects financed by BDET and of one out of three
BDET subprojects in non priority EIII subsectors; free limit under
Part B (Loan Agreement) (para 6.071.
(e) Appraisal reports of EMIs subproje,:ts to follow a detailed format
(Loan Agreement) (paras 6.08 and 6.09).
1/  Though the credit line is expected to cover BDET's pipeline through June
30, 1984, a six-month extension is envisaged as a contingency.
2/ Based on the standard disbursement profile for EMENA IDF loans (Annex 15),
with a six-month extension for contingencies.



- 44 -
(f)  Procurement procedures for subprojects to be refinanced under the
credit line (Loan Agreement and Agreed Minutes) (para 6.10).
(g)  Subloan to be made available to the Government on terms identical to
those of the Bank loan to BDET (Loan Agreement) (paras 6.17, 6.20 and
6.22).
(h)  BDET to hire additional staff to deal with project promotion and
project supervision (Supplemental Letter) (paras 5.07-5.08).
(i)  BDET's commitment to review annually its interest rate structure and
make necessary adjustments to ensure a reasonable spread, of at least
2 percentage points, starting 1982 (Loan Agreement and Agreed
Minutes) (para 4.10).
(j)  The Government's assurances to make arrangements necessary so as to
help BDET maintain the required spread, and to rescind its financial
assistance to BDET before end of 1986 (Guarantee Agreement) (para.
4.10).
(k)  BDET's understanding to submit to Bank financing projects in foundry
and platework subsectors only after agreement between the Bank and
the Government on the development strategies for these two subsectors
(para 6.27) (Minutes of Negotiations).
C. Agreements and Understandings reached during negotiations
Concerning the technical assistance arrangements
7.04
(a)  Terms of reference of experts to be hired by the CTM and technical
assistance program for the first two years to be satisfactory to the
Bank (Guarantee Agreement) (para 6.17).
(b)  At least half of the team of foreign experts (including its leader)
to be in place in the CTM no later than October 1st, 1982 (Guarantee
Agreement) (para 6.16).
(c)  Government's agreement to the principle of annual report on the func-
tioning and progress of the CTM (Guarantee Agreement) (para. 6.17).
(d)  Government's commitment to provide the necessary financial support to
the CTM's technical assistance program (Guarantee Agreement) (para.
6.17).
(e)  Government's commitment to guarantee financial support to the
National Institute for Standardization and Quality Control (Guarantee
Agreement) (para. 6.19).
(f)  Terms of reference of the experts to be hired by the Institute for
Standardization and Quality Control and work program for the first
two years to be satisfactory to the Bank (Guarantee Agreement) (para.
6.20).



- 45 -
(g) Terms of reference of the Effective Protection Study to be carried
out by the Ali Bach Hamba Institute to be reviewed by the Bank before
July 31, 1982 (Guarantee Agreement) (para. 6.22).
(h)  MNE appoint a project coordinator to expedite implementation of Part
C of the project (para 6.20) (Minutes of Negotiations).
D. Agreements and Understanding reached during
Negotiations concerning Policy Measures for EMIs
7.05
(a)  Government's commitment to give priority to EMIs in its study of
effective protection to be carried out by the Ali Bach Hamba Insti-
tute (Guarantee Agreement) (para 6.22).
(b)  Government's list of EMI capital goods produced in Tunisia, for which
corresponding imports will bear tariff duties (para 6.21) and for
which the Central Bank would extend the eligibility to the special
liproduction credit" facility (para 6.24), to be published before July
31, 1982 (Side Letter to the Guarantee Agreement).
(c)  Central Bank's and BDET agreement to allow permanent working capital
needs of EMIs subprojects to be financed with medium-term credits
(Loan and Guarantee Agreements) (para 6.06).
(d)  the Government's agreement to decrease the current tariff duty on
steel structure and platework products to 21% before July 31, 1982,
and to consult with the Bank before it increases this duty above 21%
or any tariff duties on imported capital goods above 18% (para 6.21)
(Supplemental Letter to the Guarantee Agreement).
(e)  Government's commitment to ensure for priority EMI projects protected
by import licencing that local ex-factory prices would not exceed
118% of the appropriate foreign price for similar products, through
import liberalization when necessary, and that local products meet
satisfactory quality standards (para 6.06) (Supplemental Letter to
the Guarantee Agreement).
(f)  Government's agreement to discuss with the Bank before September 30,
1982 the conclusions and recommendations of the foundry and platework
subsector studies (Guarantee Agreement) (para 6.27).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.06     The loan documents specify the following conditions of effectiveness
which were agreed upon during negotiations:
(a)  Signature of the Decree establishing the CTM and appointment of its
General Director (para 6.15); and
(b)  Signature of the Decree establishing the National Institute for Stan-
dardization and Quality Control (p,ara 6.19).
(c) Signature of the $2 million Techni.cal Assistance subloan between BDET
and the Government (para 6.17).



- 46 -
Annex 1
TUNISIA - Growth rates (% p.a.) over the Plan period (1977-81)
(based on values in 1972 prices)
Const.           Chem-                        Total
Food    Mat.    EMI    icals    Text.    Misc.        Mfg.
Value Added          +10.3   +20.6   +14.4   +14.8    +5.5        +13.1   +11.4
Value added/
worker              -0.3    +9.2    +4.2   +19.5    +1.9         +4.4    +4.6
(1980 D in current
prices)          (2,940) (1,550)  (1,190) (4,120)  (490)    (1,110)  (1,100)
Investment/job
(1977-81)
(avg in current
prices)            (9.6)  (15.8)   (6.9)  (46.2)   (1.9)        (3.0)   (7.9)
Output               +11.3   +19.2   +11.7   +19.9    +7.0         +9.8   +11.5
Investment 1/         -1.0   -11.5    +5.5   +24.7   -10.8         +6.5    -4.7
Private Investment   -8.1    +1.1   +10.7    +2.0    -4.2         +13.8    +1.0
Public Investment    +7.9   -14.0    -1.0   +29.5   -27.0          -5.4    -3.4
Employment
Creation           +17.3    -2.1    +9.4   +27.5    -1.8        +14.9    +5.5
Exports               +7.8      -     +19.7   +23.1   +16.7       +12.6   +15.9
ICOR                   3.2      8.7     4.1      8.4      3.0       1.8      3.9
1/ This rate is based on gross capital formation since data on net capital
stock are not available yet. It is nevertheless a meaningful indicator of
investment rate in manufacturing, because most of Tunisia's manufacturing
activities have relatively new capital stock thus not necessating yet
substantial renewal/replacement investments.
Source: Annexes of Budget Economique 1981, Ministry of Planning and Finance



TUNISIA
Actual and "Optimal/Normal" Structure of Manufacturing in Tunisia
(Shares in % of Manufacturing Value Added)
1977                1979                 1980                 1981                 1985
Subsector         Norm   Variance    Norm   Variance    Norm   Variance    Norm   Variance    Norm   Variance
Food                 20.9      +3.1       19.7      +5.2       19.3      +5.0       19.0      +5.7       18.6       +5.6
Const. Mat.           6.0      +4.0        5.6      +6.6        5.4      +8.4        5.4      +8.9        5.11/   +11.4
EMI                  23.7    -10.7        24.8    -12.6        25.2    -13.3        25.5    -13.3        29.2V/   -14.2
Chemicals            16.5      -1.5       17.3      -1.7       17.7      -2.1       17.5      -3.0       16.0       -5.7       1
Textiles             18.5      +6.5       18.5      +4.4        7.8      +4.5       17.8      +4.0       15.5       +4.2
Misc.                 14.3     -1.3       14.5      -2.1       14.6      -2.2       14.7      -2.3       15.6       -2.1
Total Mfg.          100.0                100.0                100.0                100.0                100.0
(MD)              (435.0)              (b14.4)              (738.3)               ov.3) I1361.q
Mfg. % of GDP        23.4    -10.7        24.5    -10.9        25.0    -11.3        25.4    -11.1        24.0       -7.3
1/  These results are based on preliminary projections for the Sixth Plan.  The final share to be assigned
to EMI during the Sixth Plan is expected to be higher than the preliminary data available.
2/ It is noted that this large variance may be explained by the important tourism sector in Tunisia.
Source: Annexes to the Budget Economique 1981, Ministry of Planning and Finance.
Annex 1 of Tunisia - Review of the Electrical-Mechanical Industries, Report No. 2666-TUN.



4. -                                                           Annex 3
TUNISIA EMIs - SUBPROJECT PIPELINE IN 1982-1986 PLAN
(excluding subprojects under implementation)
PROJECTS AGREED AND STUDIED                                                         PROJECTS IDEAS OR UNDER STUDY
(likely to ba financed in 1982-1983)                                                       (to be financed after 1983)
Description                                  cost        Private        BDET         Description                                   Cost         Private        BDET
(ID mln)                                                                              (TD ron)
1. Priority Subprojects and Activities currently considered by BSET
1. Basic Metals
Aluminum Foundry                     0.46        Private         Yes          Steel Cables                                  1.50        n.a.          If Private
2. Mechanical Works
Leaf Springs                         4.50        Private         Yes         Agricultural Iplemencs                         4.00        Private      Yes
Excavators                           0.37        Private         Yes
Wood Machines                        2.50        Private         Yes
Conpressors                          0.30        Private         Yes
Diesel Generators                    0.50        Private         Yes
Auto Radiators                       1.50        Private         Yes
Fork Lifts                           0.36        Private         Yes
3. Steel Structure and Platework
Modernization                        6.00        Private         Yes
4. Electrical-Electronic industries
Telephone Switchboards                        6.00        Private       Yes
Motors/Transformers                           9.80        Private       Uncertain
5. Export "Compensation" in Auto Industry
Mechanical Foundry                  20.00        Peugeot  Uncertain          Auto-Assembly                                  5.00        VW
Auto Assembly                        4.41        Renault  Uncertain
Auto Components                      6.30        Renault  Uncertain
Tool making                          2.60        Citroen  Uncertain
SUBTOTAL BDET                           16.49                          Yes                                                     11.50                      Yes
33.31                  Uncertain                                                       14.80                     Uncertain
49.80                                                                                 26.30
1. Priority Subprojects not considered by BDET
1. Basic Metals
SOFOMECA Rehabilitation              6.00        Public       tpriva         Foundry Extension (Fonderies Reunies)    1.20              Public       No
2. Mechanical Works
Hand Tools                           2.34        Private           No         P.W. Machinery                               10.00        Private      No
Handling Equipment                   0.48        Private           No        Machine-tools                                 10.00        Private      No
Specialized Sub-contracting                   6.00        Private      No
Agricultural Machinery                        5.00        Private      No
Low-Speed Diesel Engines                      2.00        Private      No
Mechanical Gears                              0.50        Private      No
3. Steel Structure and Platework
Mudernization                                39.00        Private       No
4. Electrical-Electronic Industries
Electrical Gear                              10.30        0.0.         No
5. Export "Compensation" in Auto Industry
Auto-Assembly                       10.20        GM/ISUZU          No
Auto Components                      5.00        GM/ISUZI          No
6. Shiprepair Yards
SOCOMENA Modernization               5.67        Public            No
SFAX Shipyards                       0.52        Public            N.
SUBTOTAL PRIORITY                       30.20                                                                                  84.00
TOTAL PRIORITY                          16.49                          Yes                                                     11.50                      Yes
33.31                  Uncertain                                                      14.80                      Uncertain
30.20                          No                                                     84.00                      No
TOTAL                            80.00                                                                                 110.30
III. Other Sobprojects and Activities
1. Basic Metals
Foundry Tubs/Pipes                  10.00        Public   If privatised   Mechanical Foundry (CMIT                         15.00        Private      Yes
Extension Gas Containers             1.50        Private           No        Wire Mill                                      7.50        Public       If Privatised
Welded Pipes                         1.00        Privare           No        Forge                                          5.00        0.a.         No
New Steel Mill                      77.60        Public            No        Helicoidal Pipes                               6.00        n.a.         No
Other Pipes                                   3.00        n.a.          No
2. Mechanical Works
Diesel Engines (CMT)-Phase I    16.00            Private          Yes        Truck Rims                                     2.00        Private      No
Car Rims                             1.12        Private          Yes        Gear Boxes                                     6.00        Private       No
Auto) Seats                          0.Di        Private          Yes        Vehicle Components                             3.50        Private       No
Auto Wipers                          0.31        Private          Yes        Engine Assembly                                3.00        Private       No
STIA Extension                       1.80        Public           Yes        STIA Extension                                 6.00        Public       Yes
Extension Diesel Engines             2.30        Public           No         Vehicles Assembly                              5.00        Public       Ho
CMT - Phase 2                                22.80        Private       Yes
3. Electrical-Electronic Industries
Auto Electrical Accessories          0.94        Private          Yes        Electric Cables                                4.90        n.a.         No
Auto Alternates                      0.54        Public           No         Printed Circuits                               0.50        Private      No
Batteries                                     5.00        Private       No
4. Household Appliances - Hardware
Various (4 projects)                 1.21        Privace          Yes        Various (2 projects)                           8.00        Public       No
Various (4 projects)                 4.09        Private          No
TOTAL NON PRIORITY                      44.68                          Yes                                                     21.10                      Yes
10.00                  Uncertain                                                        7.50                     Uncertain
87.02                          No                                                      51.90                     No
TOTAL                        118.90                                                                                  103.20
Source: Ministr- of National Econor.c - Di:ac;o sf loduatry.



- 49 -                     Annex  4
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA - EMI: Structure of Tariff I)uties on EMI Products/
TUNISIE-EMI : Structure de la Protect:.on sur les Produits IME
I - Produits sans Quota d'Importation
Droits de Douane       Code                        Denomination
0               84.24/26/28         Machines agricoles de laiterie et
materiel avicole
89.01               Bateaux de peche et de remorquage
0 - 3             84.36/37            MachineE, pour l'industrie textile
87.01               Tracteurs agricoles et non agricoles
3               73.13/16            Toles; elments de voies ferrees
84.01/02/05         Chaudieres et Machines a Vapeur
84.45/47/49         Machines;-outils a metaux, a bois et
manue::les
84.60               Moules Endustriels
6               73.10/11            Barres, fils et profiles en fer et acier
73.15               Tous demi-produits en Aciers fins
73.18/19            Tubes et tuyaux en fer et acier
73.26B/27A          Fils de cl8ture et grillages
82.09A              Lames de couteaux (y.c. pour machines)
84.14               Fours industriels
84.23               Pelles Mecaniques/Excavateurs
84.30               Machines pour Minoteries et Industries
84.40C              Machines a laver industrielles et
commerciales
Agro-Alimentaires
85.01E              Moteurs et Transformateurs Electriques
de grarde puissance
85.05                 Machines-outils glectriques manuelles
86.06/09            Wagons de chemin de fer et parties
87.07               Chariots elevateurs, basculeurs
3 - 13            84.56               Concass;eurs, betonnieres
73.31 A/C           Agrafes et autres
6 - 13            84.11               Compresseurs, Ventilateurs
84.59               Engins de Travaux Publics, Presses pour
huileries
9               74.04/76.03         T8Ies en Cuivre et Aluminium
82.05               Outils de machines
83.08               Tuyaux flexibles
13               73.17               Tubes et tuyaux en fonte
73.25               Cables en acier
73.29A              Chaines de transmission
73.40 ABC           Ouvrages divers en fonte, fer ou acier
76.09/lOB/ll        R6servDirs et emballages en Aluminium
84.41AB             Machines a coudre (sans les meubles)



-50 -                       Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
85.21               Tubes et composants electriques
87.14C              Parties pour montage de remorques
89.05               Engins flottants inertes
13 - 16            84.06BF             Moteurs de bateaux de pgche, piaces
d4tachees de moteurs
16              76.06                Tubes d'Aluminium
Exceptions a Ajuster
20              84.63                Engrenages, arbres de transmission
26              73.21                Construction metallique
73.22               Chaudronnerie
II.  Produits avec Quota d'Importations a promouvoir
6              73.35                Ressorts en acier
84.50               Machines pour soudage et oxycoupage
90 26A              Comptoirs 4lectriques
13              84.10C               Pompes sans mesureur
84.22BCDE           Grues, palans, ponts roulants, ascenseurs
85.01BCD            Moteurs et transformateurs de
petite/moyenne puissance
85.01A              Groupes 6lectroganes
85.18               Condensateurs electriques
16               73.20AB/74.08       Divers Accessoires de tuyauterie fer et
cuivre
III.  Produits Non-Prioritaires avec quota d'Importation
6               73.12               Feuillards Fer/Acier
85.25/27            Isolateurs electriques
9               74.03/76.02         Barres en Cuivre et Aluminium
13              74.10/19             Reservoirs et Cables en Cuivre
16               74.07/15            Tubes et Clouterie en Cuivre
85.23               Cables et Fils Electriques
IV. Autres Produits avec Droits de Douane Superieurs a 18%
19              85.13                Thldphones et Interphones
20              84.17                Chauffe-eau solaires
85.14               Microphones et Amplificateurs
78.03               Feuilles de Plomb
85.12A              Chauffe-eau electro-solaires
23              85.12B-H             Appareils domestiques electrothermiques
85.20*              Ampoules et tubes d'eclairage
* Numeros Douaniers soulignds egalent soumis a quota dtimports



- 51 -                     Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
20 - 32            73.32               Boulonnerie et Vis
73.36               Cuisinieres et Calorif6res
83.01               Serrures et Cles
87.06               Automobil.es en CKD pour montage
26               73.31B              Clouterie
73.37               Chaudieres Chauffage Central
83.02               Ferrures de menuisierie
84.61               Robinetterie Industrielle
85.19               AppareilLage de Coupure et Sectionnement
87.04/05            Carrosseries et chassis pour Automobiles
26 - 32            82.06               Lames et Couteaux pour Machines
30               82.01               Outils agricoles h main
84.51               Machines a ecrire
32               78.02/05/06         Barres, tubes et divers en plomb
82.02/03/04         Outils mscaniques et domestiques a main
83.15               Electrodes et baguettes de soudure
85.04               Accumulateurs
85.08/09            Accessoires electriques pour automobiles
36               73.38               Articles de menage en fer
40               76.08               Construction et Menuiserie en Aluminium
82.14               Couverts de table
83.03               Coffres-forts
84.20               Bascules et Balances
85.03               Piles electriques
94.02               Mobilier medical
42               76.15               Articles de menage en aluminium
84.12               Conditionneurs d'air
50               83.04               Classeurs Metalliques
94.03/04            Meubles et Literie Mgtalliques
60               83.13/14            Bouchons metalliques et Plaques
indicatrices
140               82.11               Razoirs
50 - 80            83.07               AppareiLs d'eclairage, lampes
42 - 100           84.06 ACDE          Moteurs a combustion interne
30 - 60            84.15               Refrige:rateurs
50 - 100           84.19               Machines a laver la vaisselle
26 - 70            85.15               Radios et Tel6viseurs
23 - 200           87.02               Automobiles et Vehicules Commerciaux
26 - 180           87.09               Cycles at Motocycles
Source: Ministry of Plan and Finance - Direction of Customs



BDET - ORGANIZATION CHART
(July 1, 1981)
I - PHcSIDLtNT LUNEHAL MANALiUH-
PERSONEL AND                MR, HABIB BOURGUIBA JR,         INTERNAL AUDITING
PROGURE}l-NT                                                    DEPARTMENT
DEPART1,1ENT              DEPUlYGENERAL        ER          MR. A. ABDELHAK
Mr. JARRAYA Taoufik    '       MR. CHEKIB NUIRA                  P
4 =4
PROJECT APPRAISAL           EXPLOITATION            COMMITMENTS            RESSOURCES MOBILIH                          t
MANAGEMENT        r     MANAGEMENT               MANAGEMENT             ZATION AND PARTICIC       MENTATION MANAGE- |
jMR. F. BELKAHIA         MR. RIDHA JOULAK         MR. NEJIB TNANI           PATION MANAGEMENT        MEN
;H     P=1  8=1                P=2  S=2               MR. BRAHIM RIA I          MR. NEJIB BEN DEBB .
TREASURY DEPARTMENI            URENTS                           STAI
PROJECTS APPRIAISAL     Mh. HAMADI BEN MUS            DEPARTMENT          TISTIC DEPMATMENT         DePARMENT
DEPART%MEN F       TAPHA               ITSI   EATETDPRMN
t   CcHARTei:Nr   r S7  TAPHA    8=|13MR  YOUSSEF TMAR                 MR. HABIB JABBESR DRIDI
kW%- , AbIUM t3cN SAAD ,                                                                3
ACCOUNTING AND            LEGAL DEPARTMENT      |  PARTICIPATION              DOCUMENTATION
~~DU -RVISION   REPAYMENTS~ ~  ~       ~ ~ ~ ~~~DOUMETAID
WPER'IINREAMNSMR. MOHAMED ABDEL-                                         DEPARTMIENT             M.AI   JI
*  ,'ii, M.;OHAME) CHAKER     DEPARTMENT       A_ Au                        MR. AHMNED NAIJA
MR. BECHIR MAJOUL     i P3S-P=                                                     61
P=3 S=3                 P=4 S 12                                         P=4 S=6
Managemnernt  :
Profe,;sio',al- (p)    50
:uouiort STAFF (:)
EKENA/IDF
September 1981



TUNISIA - BDET
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS 1977-1980
(Amounts in thousand dinars)
1977                   1978                      1979                       1980
Number    Amount    %    Number   Amount    %    Number   Amount    %    Number    Amount
Applications
Foreign currency loans        136    25656         62     115      27277   73        166   37896      84       121      22453       52
Dinar Loans                    49    11894         29       54      6607   18         34    5460      12        67      17339       40
Equity Parficipations          33      3816         9       33      3259    9         25    1530       4        34       3615        8
Totals            171    4116Q        too      157     37143  100        192   44887    100        183      43407      100
App rovals
Foreign currency loans         84    21041         63       64     19841   69         80   23021      75        6 5     14862       46
Dinar Loans                    47      R6nl        26       38      6063   21         47    6058       20       62      14338       45
Equity Participations          34      3552        11       25      2729   10         23    1407        5        30      2889         9
Totals            113    33194        100      100     28633  100        105   30486    100        115      32089      100
Commitments
Foreign currency loans         91    14703         67       61     15018   66         79   15666      70'       4.9     15283        68
Dinar Loans                    34      47C7        22       38      5089   25         46    4922       22        32      5552       24
Equity Participations          27      236         10       27     1916      9        23    1811        8        27      1778
Totals            105    21770        100      104     22622  100        122   22399    100          91     2261      XT
Disbursements
Foreign currency loans                10103        50              10267   46               12127      48               10256        43
Dinar Loans                            8403        41              10154   46               11841      46               12683        52
Equity Participations                  1866         9               1858    8                1593       6                1154         5
Totals                    20372       100              22280  100               25561    100                24093      TGU
BDET/ March 1981



Annex 7
TUNISIA - BDET
ANALYSIS OF APPROVED OPERATIONS 1977 - 1980
(Amount in D '000)
1977                           1978                            1979                          1980
Number   Amount   %             Number  Amount   %             Number   Amount    %           Number  Amount    %
New Projects:
Extensions and modernizations
-New Projects                      77      24,691    74.4          77    21,592    75.4           73      24,352      80         82    20,217       63.0
-Extention Projects                36       8,503   25.6           31      7.041    24.6          32       6,134      20         33    11,873       31.0
TOTALS             113      33,194  100            108    28,633  100             105      30,486    100         115    32,090    100
Private Versus Public Sect
-Private Sector                   107      27,339   82.4          106    27,433   95.8            98      23,893      78.4      111    27,330      85.2
-Public Sector                      6       5,855    17.6           2      1,200    4.2            7       6,593      21.6        4      4,760      14.8
TOTALS             113      33,194  100            108    28,633  100             105      30,486    100         115    32,090    100
Sectors of Activity
INDUSTRY
Mechanical                         12       1,875      5.6         20      7,305   25.5            9        1,915      6.3       20      6,250      16.1
Construction Materials             12       3,515    10.6          23      4,951    17.3          19       5,875      19.3       14      2,425       7.6
Chemical and Rubber                 4       2,469      7.4          3      2,212      7.7          6       1,539       5.0        7        868       2.7
Food Processing                    25      10,674   32.1           15      3,150    11.0          23       9,005     29.5        11      1,336       4.2
Textiles                           19       4,348    13.1          12      1,172     4.1          16       2,058       6.8      I       3,463      10.7
Woold Cock                          5        1,510    4.5           5      1,214     4.2           3       1,233       4.0        5         595      1.9
Plastics                            3          243    0.7           2        260    0.9            3          361      1.2        8      1,465      4.6
Miscellaneous lnd.                 19       2,339      7.0         14      3,718    13.0          14       2,034       6.7       15      2,121       9.9
Sub-Totals = Industry                99      26,971    81.3          94    23,982   83.7            93      24,021      78.8       98     18,532      57.8
Tourism                            13       6,123    18.4          14      4,651    16.3          11       4,070      13.3       16    10,557      32.9
Transport                           1          100    0.3          --       __       __            1       2,395       7.9        1      3,000       9.3
TOTALS             113      33,194  100            108    28,633  100             105      30,486   100          115     32,090    100
Size of Operations
D 15 to 49,999                     28         800    2.4           23        557      1.9          9          231      0.8       32        722      2.3
D 50 to 199,999                    52       5,196    15.7          48      4,953    17.3          63       6,332      20.8       47      5,416      16.9
D 200 to 499,999                   11       2,958     8.9          20      3,845   20.4           17       4,745      15.6       15      4,112     12.8
D 500 to 999,999                   10       7,171   21.6           10      8,123   28.4           10       7,120    23.3         11      7,555     23.5
D 1000 and over                    12      17,070   51.4            7      9,155   32.0            6      12,059     39.5        10    14,285      44.5
TOTALS             113      33,194   100           108    28,633  100             105      30,486    100         115    32,090   100
Duration
5 to less than 7 years              8          29      1.4          4      1,856     7.2           4       3,008     10.4         1      1,100      3.8
7 to less than 10 years            65       9,411   31.8           79    12,583   48.6            71      13,617     46.8        83    11,866    40.6
Ten years and above                28      19,802   66.8           14     11,465   44.2           16      12,454     42.8        20    16,235      55.6
TOTALS             101      29,642  100             97    25,904  100              91      29,079    100         104    29,200
LOCATION
Projets Inter regional
TUNIS                              62      16,728   50.35          47      7,859   27.4           42       7,736     25.4        44     10,032     31.3
BIZERTE                             1           43    0.13          6      4,053    14.2           2         211       0.7        3      2,383      7.4
BESA                                3       2,376     7.2           4      2,195     7.7           2         234       0.8        1         14      0.1
CAP PON (NABEUL)                    6       1,187      3.6          5      1,323     4.6           8       1,722       5.6       17      7,041     21.9
JENDOUBA                            2       1,571     4.7           1         29    0.1            2          142     0.5         -        -         -
LE MEF                              1         545      1.6          1         52    0.2            1         216      0.7         -        -         -
SIDI BOUZID                         1          60    0.18           1        300     1.1           -            -       -         -        -         -
1(AIROUAN                           1           25    0.07          4      3,902    13.6           4       4,422      14.5        1         30      0.1
SOUSSE                              7       2,928     8.8          13      2,631     9.2           7       6,729     22.1         9      4,587     14.3
MONASTIR                            9       3,169     9.5           1         25    0.1            3         600       2.0       11      2,555      8.0
MARDIA                              1       1,280    3.9            4      1,080     3.8           2       1,028       3.3        2        316      0.9
KASSERINE                           -           -       -           1         120    0.4           4         405       1.3        3      1.352      4.2
GAPSA                               1       1,250     3.8           2      1,670    5.8            -           -        -         2        159      0.5
SFAX                               11       1,215    3.7            7      1,210    4.2           14       1,639       5.4       11      1,656      5.2
GARES                               2         414      1.25         2        582    2.0            3         962       3.2        1         45      0.1
KINENINE                            2          185    0.56          3         190    0.7           1          874      2.9        2      1,374      4.3
ZAGHOUAN                            3         219    0.66           5      1,362     4.7           7          857      2.8        8        546       1.7
SILIANA                             -           -       -           1         51    0.2            2         314      1.0         -        -         -
TOTAUX              113    33,194  100             108    28,633  100             105      30,486    100         115    32,098    100
Entreprise de Transport par Pipe Line entre Bizerte et Tunis
BDET/ March 1981



- 55 -                                     Annex .,
TUNISIA - BDE1r
Outstanding Loans and Equity Investment:s, as of December 31, 1980
(amounts in D'000)
Medium-Term Loans   Long-Term Loans   Equity Invest.                Total
Industry             No.       Amount      No.    Amount       No.   Amount    No.   Amount
Food processing
and beverage        -          -          93    18,843.8    17   1,540.9   110   20,384.6   18.2
Textiles, Clothing
Leather             -          -          69      8,282.1      9     494.0    78    8,776.0    6.1
Wood, cork,
Furniture           -          -          15      2,308.9      5      166.4    20    2,475.2    2.2
Chemicals             -          -          21      5,519.7    10   1,776.9    31    7,296.7    6.5
Tiles, Ceramics,
Glassware           -          -           3      1,900.7      3      494.1      6    2,394.8    2.1
Electro-Mechanical   -           -          40    13,059.1    15   1,790.2    55   14,849.3   13.3
Rubber and
Plastics            -          -           7        700.6      3      120.5    10       821.1    0.7
Mining                -          -          13      1,343.9      1       92.3    14    1,436.2    1.3
Paper and Printing   -           -          17      2,394.1      3      132.7    20    2,526.8    2.3
Construction          -          -          80    14,119.4    13        701.4    93   14,820.8   13.3
Miscellaneous         2        32.5         35      6,074.0      9      347.9    46    6,454.4    5.8
FOPRODI 1/            -          -          28      1,124.3                      28    1,124.3    1.0
Subtotals         2        32.5        421    75,6X0.6    88   7,657.2   511   83,360.3   74.6
Tourism                1       62.0         65    19,1L9.3    31   3,055.4    97   22,266.7   19.9
Transport             2       119.9          2      3,243.7      2        5.9      6    3,369.5    3.0
Banking and
Insurance           -          -           1      1,620.0      5   1,094.9      6    2,714.9    2.4
Totals           5       214.4        489    99,683.6   126  11,813.4   620  111,715.4  100.0
1/  FOPRODI:  Industrial Promotion and Decentraliza:ion Fund;
See First Small Scale Industry Development Project, op.cit. (project File, Item 7).
BDET - Audit Report 1980



TUNISIA - BDET
Performance Indicators 1977-1980
1977      1978       1979       1980
Profitability Indicators
Net profit as % of average net worth                           11.1        10.9       12.3       10.9
Profit before tax as % of average net worth                    13.9        12.5       14.1      12.0
Dividends as % of net profit
Dtvidends as % of par value share                               8.0         8.0        8.0        8.0
Book value share as % of par value share                      150.9       158.7      180.0     150.0
Operational Indicators
Gross income as % of average total assets                       8.3         8.2        9.0        8.5
Administrative expenses as % of average total assets            1.4         1.4        1.4        1.3
Financial expenses as % of average total assets                 5.3         5.4        5.9        5.8
Dividends and realized capital gains as % of average
equity portfolio                                                3.5         3.7        3.2       4.2
Income from loans as % of average loan portfolio                8.9         8.8        9.5       9.1
Cost of term debt as % of average term debt                     6.3         6.6        7.5        7.6
Financial Structure Indicators
Total debt/year-end networth                                    6.8         6.5        6.5        6.9
Long term debt/year-end networth                                6.3         5.5        6.1        6.2
Provision for risk as % of total portfolio                      3.8         3.9        4.2       4.4
Interest coverage ratio                                         1.4         1.3        1.3       1.3
Year end total assets (in thousand dinars)                   81,932      94,628   108,835   117,937
Year net networth (in thousand dinars)                       10,445      12,688    14,400    15,000
0
EMENA/IDF
June 1981



- 57 -
Annex 10
TUNISIA - Major Assumptions Uncerlying BDET's Projections
A.  Operational Projections
1. Total approvals after the 1981 jump will resume growth after 1984 only.
SSIs' share in total loan approvals will increase from 49% in 1982 to 61%
in 1986. Financing of large projects will average 10% of share capital
and 20% of medium- and long-term credits. Financing of the tourism sector
will decrease from D 26 million in 1981 to D 12 million in 1982 and 1983
and D 10 million afterwards..
2. Loan maturities will average 10 years for industrial loans and 14 years
for tourims loans, including an average yrace period of 3 years.
B. Financial Projections
1. Interest on industrial loans approved in 1982 will be 11%, to increase by
0.5 percentage point p.a. to reach 13% irn 1986. Interest rates on tourism
loans will be 0.5 percentage point higher than for industrial loans. In
addition, BDET charges a study commissionI of 0.5% flat of loan conmmit-
ments, an exchange commission of 0.5% flat of foreign exchange loan
commitments, and a commitment fee of 1% p.a. on undisbursed loans.
2.  Other income from deposits of BDET's excess liquidity at 11% p.a. in
foreign currencies and 7.5% p.a. in Dinars (the latter yield to increase
by 0.5% p.a. after 1982).
3. Charges on future borrowings are assumed to be:
Interest rate (%)    Maturity incl.grace prd. in yrs
IBRD                           11.8                         15       (3)
ADB                            8.5-9                        15        (3)
KfW                            6                            30       (10)
French credits                 3 and 8                      26 (6) and 8
Arab funds                     6                            15       (4)
EIB                            8                            12       (3)
Other preferential credits   8                              7        (4)
Local bonds                    8.25-9.25                    10
Euro-currency                  12 (15% in US$; 9% in         7        (3)
borrowing                        other currency)
4. BDET shall continue to distribute dividends at 8% of per value.
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



- 58 -
Annex 1 1
TUNISIA - BDET: Projected Operations (1981-1986)
(D'000)
1981 *    1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
Approvals
Loans
Industry                n.a.    37,000    35,000    36,000    37,500    40,500
Tourism, others         n.a.    12,000    13,000    14,000    14,000    14,000
Sub-total           53,940    49,000    48,000    50,000    51,500    54,500
Participations
Industry                n.a.      3,500      2,500      3,500     3,500      3,500
Tourism                 n.a.      2,500      2,500      2,500      2,500     2,500
Sub-total            6,690      6,000      5,000      6,000     6,000      6,000
Total Financing
Industry              28,490    43,000    41,000    46,000    47,500    50,500
Tourism, others       32,140    12,000    12,000    10,000    10,000    10,000
Total               60,630    55,000    53,000    56,000    57,500    60,500
Commitments
Loans                   n.a.    46,900    45,400    41,600    41,900    43,600
Participations          n.a.      6,100      5,400      4,700     5,100      5,100
Total               22,840    53,000    50,800    46,300    47,000    48,700
(in foreign
currencies)        (13,910)  (23,850)  (30,315)  (29,250)  (30,150)  (31,700)
Disbursements
Loans                 23,000    30,000    38,300    42,100    38,100    38,000
Participations         1,900      3,400      5,100      5,400     5,100      5,000
Total               24,900    33,400    43,400    47,500    43,200    43,000
(in 'foreign
currencies)        (14,500)  (16,130)  (21,630)  (27,900)  (26,705)  (27,140)
* Preliminary actuals for 1981
EMENA/IDF
November 1981



TUNISIA - BDET:  Audited and Projected Income Statements 1977-86
(o000)
Atudited                                                    Projected
Income                                      1977         1978        1979        1980         1981 a/    1982          1983        1984         1985        1986
Interest on loans and advances                5,142       5,982       7,141        8,110       8,947      10,302       12,580      15,575       18,349      20,635
Interest on deposits                            216         252         480          197         200         820          700          730         370         450
Dividend income                                 149         219         210          217
Capital gains                                   115         124          131         267         370          530         b65          79O         895          945
Commissions and Fees                            593         361         430          360         54O          8b5         955          925         970        1,050
Total Income                             6,215       6,938        8,392       9,151       10,057      12,517       14,900      18,020      20,584       23,080
Expenses
Interest on deposits                             88         367         246          268         200          250         300          350         400          450
Interest on borrowings                        3,571       4,033       5,334        5,917       6,340       7,929       10,481      13,275       14,927      16,679
Administrative expenses                       1,120       1,249       1,650        1,424       1,315        1,515       1,745       2,010        2,310        2,660
Depreciation and amortization                    55          54           61          66         178          247         335          352         378         422
Other expenses                                  --          --          --           --          185          270         305          300         320          350
Total Expenses                           4,833       5,702        7,092       7,673        8,218      10,211       13,165      16,287      18,335       20,561
Operation income                              1,629       1,560       2,069        1,931       1,839        2,30o       1,735        1,733       2,249        2,519
(less) provision for doubtful loan             (300)       (300)       (400)        (400)       (870)        (735)     (1,085)     (1,150)        (810)        (645)
Interest subsidy                                248         324         768          454         750          600       1,200        1,730       1,790        1,340
Income betore tax                             1,.27       1,260       1,669        11          1 719       2.171        1,850       2,313        3,229       3,214
(less tax)                                     (270)       (156)       (217)        (144)       (649)        (210)       (245)        (305)       1105)          _
Net Income before appropriations           1,059        1,104       1,452        1,387       1,070       1            1,605       2,008        2,924       3,214
Debt service coverage ratio                       1.3          1.3         1.2        11.3          1.1         1.6          1.3         1.3          1.3         1.3
Interest coverage ratio                           1.4         1.3          1.3         1.3         1.3          1.3         1.25         1.2          1.2         1.2
Spread (in %), with subsidy                                   2.2          2.0         1.8          2.4         2.0          1.9         2.2          2.6         2.8
without subsidy                               1.8         1.1          1.3         1.7         1.4          1.0         1.1          1.6          2.0
a/  Preliminary resuilts
BDET: Audit Reports for 1977-1980
BDET/EKENA-IDF for projections 1981-19&6
November 1981



TUNISIA - BDET: Audited and Projected Balance Sheets 1977-86
(D 000)
Audited                                                    Projected
Assets                                     1977        1978         1979       1980         1981 a/    1982         1983        1984        1985        1986
Cash and Bank deposits                      4,236       4,638       5,201        2,711
Accounts receivable                         3,169       2,877       2,917       2,662
Accrued income from loans                   1,570       1,848       1,t37       2,207
Short-term investments                        274         230          217        257
Current Assets                          9,249       9,592       9,972       7,837      13,626      14,829      15,724      16,898       18,730      20,724
Medium and long-term loans                 65,624      76,802      88,624      99,898    107,882    122,622    145,212    168,972    184,607    196,224
Equity Participations                       8,293       9,964      11,203       11,814      13,479      17,239      21,849      26,759      31,369      35,879
Total Portfolio                        73,917      86,766      99,827    111,612    121,361    139,861    167,061    195,731    215,976    232,103
(less) provisions for bad loans            (1,752)    (2,228)    (2,797)    (3,401)    (4,104)    (4,839)    (5,924)            (7,074)    (7,884)      (8,529)
Net Portfolio                          72,165      84,538      97,030    108,211    117,257    135,022    161,137    188,657    208,092    223,574
Fixed Assets (net)                             270         278         316         288         259         226         189         408         363         314
Other Assets (net)                             248        221         421          293         184         460         802         861         673         565
Total Assets                           81,932      94,628    108,836    117,937    131,326    150,537    177,852    206,824    227,858    245,177
C'
Liabilities
Deposits                                    4,103       6,924       6,157        6,377
Accounts payable                            8,361      12,000       9,335       12,892
Current Liabilities                    12,464      18,924      15,492      19,269      14,882      14,882      14,882      14,882       14,882      14,882
Long-term borrowings                       59,023      63,016      78,944      83,668    100,023    111,402    138,742    162,736    178,276    184,811
(of which) IBRD                         (14,236)   (14,100)    (18,181)   (20,290)
"1  "1   Govt. subordinated             (4,615)    (3,768)    (3,298)    (3,298)
Employee's Social Fund                         322         386        446          535         655         805         955         986       1,286       1,636
Reserve for exonerated reinvestment         1,069       1,194       1,427        1,554       1,720       1,720       1,720       1,720       1,720       1,720
Share capital                               6,000       7,000       8,000       8,000      10,000      20,000      20,000       25,000      30,000      30,000
Premium on capital subscription               750       1,550       1,550        1,550        --          --          --           --          --
Government grant                               500        500          500         500         500         500         500         500         500         500
Reserve and surplus                         1,805       2,058       2,478       2,862       3,546        1,228       1,053 3    __           1,194       1,628
Sub-Total Equity                          9,055      11,108      12,528      12,912      14,046      21,728      21,553      26,500       31,694      31,728
Total Liabilities                     81,932      94,628    108,83       117,937    131,326    150,537    177,852    206,824    227,858    245,177 D
a/ Preliminary Data
BDET; Audit Reports for 1977-1980
BDET/EMENA-IDF for projections 1981-1986
November 1981



- 61 -                     Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
BDET's PIPELINE IN THE EMIs
1.         The pipeline of EMI projects identified by the Plan comprises D
220 million for priority projects, of which D 90 million are likely to be
undertaken and financed during 1982-1983 (ChaFter III, para 3.18). BDET
has selected among those a number of projects which it expects to finance,
and a number which it may consider financing under certain conditions, as
summarized below;
BDET Pipeline and Potential Demand for 3MI Financing (1982-83)
Subsectors                     Projects by BDET                 API Agreements
Priority_Projects  Other Projects    Priority PLrject
No.Proj    Invst.   Investments         No.Proi.  Invst.
TTD millon                TD million)
Foundries/Metal            1        0.46        1O.0Q              6        1.03
Mechanical Works           7        10.03        19.73/a          39       6.18
Structures/Platework       n.a.     6.00          -                -        -
ELectrical Industries    -            -          0.94              7       0.77
Buy-back Export            4       33.31/b         -               2       0.47
Oither EMIs                -                      1.21             -         -
Total EMIs                12       49.80         31.88/a          54       8.45
/a  Includes D 16 million for the first phase of the Diesel Engine Mechanical
Complex for which ongoing feasibility studies will establish the impact of
complementary exports on its economic viability.
/b  BDET's attitude towards financing these projects is still uncertain.
2.       BDET is considering favorably to finance eight priority projects
totalling D 16.5 million which would be ready in 1982-83; it is still
uncertain about four buyback export joint ventures with European manufacturers
(Renault, Peugeot, Citroen) which would total investment of D 33.3 million.
BDET is also considering to finance during 1982-83 some ten projects in
non-priority activities with an estimated total investment of D 15.9 million.
These projects comprise a foundry for bath tubs and iron pipes, five projects
for automobile accessories for the domestic mnarket, and four projects for
household appliances and common hardware. Finally, BDET intends to finance
part of the first phase (D 16 million) of the Mechanical Complex for diesel
engines, which it has actively promoted during the last three years
(para 3.18).



- 62 -                     Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
3.       In addition, some of the 90 small project ideas and proposals which
have been agreed by API in 1980 and in the first half of 1981 for a total
investment of D 14 million in priority subsectors may apply for BDET
financing, and thus constitute a "pool" of projects on which BDET could draw
to expand its lending operations to EMIs. Two thirds of these projects are in
the mechanical works subsector, with a majority for specialized machining
shops. Allowing for a time lag for project maturation of 1.5-2 years and for
an attrition rate of 40% between API approval and actual financing/
implementation, this potential demand for additional BDET participation in
priority EMI subsectors during 1982-1983 would represent some 54 projects
totalling an investment of D 8.45 million.
4.       On the basis of the above pipeline, and given that BDET has on the
average financed 40% of the total investment costs of its subprojects, BDET
would lend in 1982-83 between a minimum of D 10 million and a maximum of D 23
million in EMI priority activities. Total BDET lending in the EMI sector
(including non-priority projects) during 1982-83 would total between D 22 and
36 million, representing 28-46% of its total projected lending and 10-16% of
total EMI investments. The contribution of BDET lending to EMI priority
projects would increase in absolute terms from D 1.5 million p.a. to D 5-12
million p.a., and relatively to total investment costs, from 14% in 1977-80 to
11-25% in 1982-83. More importantly, the share of priority EMIs in total
manufacturing lending of BDET would increase from 6.5% in 1970-81 to 12-29% in
1982-83. This increase will require from BDET a substantial effort in project
identification and promotion of priority EMI activities, not only for new
enterprises but also for modernization and restructuring of existing firms and
subsectors; this latter objective would apply in particular to the steel
structure/platework subsector.



-63 -                           Annex 15
BDET - Estimated Disbursement Schedule 1/
($ 000,1
Credit Line to BDET               Subloan to the Government
($28.0 million)                       ($2.0 million)-
Semester           Disbursement                         Disbursement
Ending           during Semester   Cumulative         during Semester   Cumulative
1983
December 31            5,000             5,00J              1,400             1,400
1984
June 30                4,500             9,500                400             1,800
December 31            9,000            18,500                200            2,000
1985
June 30                3,300            21,8C0
December 31            2,800            24,600
1986
June 30                1,400            26,0C 0
December 31            1,200           27,2C0
1987
June 30                  800            28,000
December 31
1/ This schedule does not include the front-end fee of $0.5 million to be
disbursed and repaid at effectiveness (est. July 1982).
EMENA|IDF
January, 1982



- 64 -                     Annex 16
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.   Tunisia, Review of the Electrical and Mechanical Industries (Report
No. 2666-TUN, June 4, 1980).
2.   First draft Law and Decree establishing the Centre Technique de la
Mecanique (Ministry of National Economy).
3.   First draft Law and Decree establishing the National Institute for
Standardization and Quality Control (Ministry of National Economy).
4.   Terms of Reference for the expert to assist in stabilizing the
Institute (Aide Memoire of Appraisal Mission, June 21, 1981).
5.   List of EMI goods produced in Tunisia (Ibid).
6.   Seventh Loan to BDET (No. 1504-TUN), staff Appraisal Report No.
1734B-TUN, November 29, 1977.
7.   First Small Scale Industry Development Project (Loan No. 1969-TUN)
Staff Appraisal Report No. 3266-TUN, February 5, 1981.
8.   Draft Terms of Reference of the foreign experts to be hired by CTM
(Aide M4moire, Op. cit.).
9.   BDET - Project Performance Audit Report, No. 3611, September 9, 1981.
10.   Incentive Law No. 81-56, Republic of Tunisia, June 21, 1981.



