FLE COPY
Report No. 567a-CK
Appraisal of the
Third Highway Project
Zaire
January 29, 1975
Regional Projects Department
East Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    ZaTre  (Z)
z 1.00               US$?.00
Z 0.50          =    US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )        0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)             -    2.47 acres (ac)
1 liter (1)                     0.22 British gallons (IMg)
90.26 US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)            =    2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)            2,204 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB        - African Development Bank
ADT        - Average daily traffic
AGCD       - Administration Generale de la Cooperation
au Developpement.
AIZR       - Association Internationale Zaire Routes
BCEOM/SCET -  Bureau Central d'Etudes pour les Equipements
d'Outre Mer/Soci6te' Centrale pour l'Equipement
du Territoire
CIDA       -  Canadian International Development Agency
FAC        - Fords d'Aide et de Cooperation
GDP        - Gross domestic product
ONATRA     - Office Nationale des Transports
ORT        -  Organisation for Rehabilitation through Training
RIG        - Routes d'interet gen6ral
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme
USAID      - United States Agency for International
Development
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD HIGHWAY PROJFCT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pe No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................... i - ii
1. INTRODUCTION.                                                     1
2.   BACKGROUND .......................................,              2
A. The Country and Its Economy.                                 2
B. The Transport Sector ..                                      3
-    General   ...............    3
-    Highways  ...............    3
-    Ports and Rivers  ....           ...........   4
-    Railways  ...............    4
-    Civil Aviation .............     ,                   4
C.   Transport Policy and Coordination ...............   5
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR .....   5
A. The Highway Network .....   5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic   .....   6
C.   The Road Transport Industry  ......    6
D.  Highway Administration .....   7
E.   Highway Planning and Financing  .....    8
F. Highway Engineering .....   9
G.  Highway Construction ......  10
H. Highway Maintenance ......  10
4.   THE PROJECT ......................                              12
A. Description                ...12
-    Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Roads .  12
-    Pilot Highway Maintenance Scheme  ...........  13
-    Logistic Support System for Highway
Maintenance  ................................  13
-    Road Rehabilitation  ........................  14
-    Feasibility Studies  ........................  14
-    Traffic Survey  .............................  15
B. Execution                 ...15
C. Cost Estimates   .                   .17
D.   Financing and Disbursements          .    .    .18
This report was prepared by Messrs. H. J. Peters (engineer) and I. E. Smith
(economist), and Ms. J. Murphy (editor).



TABIU (nr CONTENTS (ront'd)
Pae No.
S.  ECONOMIC .VALUATION  .      .............................  19
A.   Introduction       ................................. 19
B.   Technical Assistance and Training  .... ........ 19
C.   Pilot Maintenance and Logistic Support  ....... 19
D.  Road Rehabilitation  ......      .................... 20
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION      .. 21
TABLES:   1 - Main Highwav Network 1974
2 - Vehicle Fleet 1969-197?
3 - Gasoline and 1!)1e1 ^til Consumption 1959-1972
4 - Highway Design Standards Adonted by the Bureau of Roads
5 - Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Roads
6 - Roads to be Rehabilitated and Maintained under the Pilot
Highway Maintenance Scheme in Bas Zaire
7 - Equipment Requirements for the Pilot Highway Maintenance Scheme
in Bas Zaire
8 - Detailed Cost Estimates
9 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES:  1 - Existing Training Arrangements for Highway Personnel
2  Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Roads - Draft
Terms of Reference
CHART:    Bureau of Roads - Organization Scheme (9008-3R)
MAPS:     Republic of Zaire
I - Transportation Network (10434R2)
2 - Bureau of Roads Administrative Divisions (11226)



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
APPRAISAL OF T11E THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AN't) IU.u,CLUSIONS
i.        Following independence there was a rapid deterioration of Zaire's
road network. This resulted in stagnation and often decline of many economic
activities which depend on road transport, particularly agriculture.  The
reasons for this development were inefficient highway administration and
inadequate budgets.
ii.       Since 1969 the Bank Group, together with other international and
bilateral agencies, has assisted the Government in programs aimed at over-
coming institutional and financial problems in the highwav sectur. Two IDA
credits to the Government of Zaire helped finance the First and Second Highway
Projects which provided for technical assistance to the highway administration
and the means to rehabilitate and maintain roads. The Government's lack of
experience in carrying out its functions hindered progress under the First
Highway Project, but improved performance in this respect has now resulted in
satisfactory progress under the Second Project.
iii.      lhe proposed Third Highway Project, which will be implemented over
a period of 3 years, is intended to continue strengthening the Bureau of Roads
and developing local expertise in highway administration. To these ends the
project provides for technical experts to act in most cases as advisers to
local key personnel.  To improve highway maintenance the project provides for
two pilot highway maintenance schemes, which are devised to serve as training
ground for highway maintenance personnel, and for a country-wide logistic
support system for maintenance operations by establishing adequate facilities
for maintenance and repair of equipment and vehicles. The project also pro-
vides for road rehabilitation anid studies for future road construction. To
help the Government in preparing a highway development program the project
provides for a comprehensive road traffic survey. The total capital costs
of the project are estimated at US$40.3 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$27.8 million (69%). An IDA credit of US$26.0 million will
help meet the foreign costs of the project. UNDP/Funds in Trust, the Belgian
and the French Governments will make contributions to financing the foreign
exchange costs of technical assistance. The Government will meet the remain-
ing foreign costs (US$300,000), all of the local costs (US$12.5 million) and
the recurrent costs of the pilot highway maintenance schemes (US$5.0 million
annually). Retroactive financing of about US$700,000 may become necessary.
iv.       The Ministry of Public Works through the Bureau of Roads assisted
by technical experts will be responsible for execution of the project.
Technical experts and consultants for preinvestment studies, construction
supervision and the traffic survey will be employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Contracts for procurement of goods and for



- ii -
road rehabilitation will be awarded after international compeLitive bidding
following normal Bank Group procedures. Contracts for the construcLion of
widely dispersed regional workshops will be awarded after competitive bidding
advertised Locally.
v.        The principal objective of the project is to build up an efficient
highway administration, to initiate sound highway sector planning and to
assist with the rehabilitation of a key road. Although benefits flowing
from the technical assistance and institution building elements of the project
cannot be readily quantified, it is expected that these, in conjunction with
the road rehabilitation yielding an economic return of the order of 20%, will
greatly improve the adequacy of Zaire's highway system to serve public demand
for road transport.
vi.       Provided that satisfactory assurances are obtained from the Govern-
ment on the matters mentioned in Chapter 6, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$26.0 million to the Government of Zaire.



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The present Bank Group strategy for highway development in Zaire is
to concentrate resources on rehabilitating highways and thus restore highway
transport facilities which suffered from extensive disruption and neglect
during the political and economic disturbances of the early 1960's. The
overall objective is to reverse the decline in economic activity, partly
brought about by the poor state of the road network, and to reattain as a
first step the level of output prevailing before independence. The present
project, financed with international assistance amounting to US$27.5 million,
of which IDA is extending US$26.0 million and UNDP/Funds in Trust, the Belgian
AGCD and the French FAC an expected aggregate amount of US$1.5 million under
separate arrangements, is the latest in a series of measures and investments
directed towards this end.
1.02      The shortage of educated and trained manpower and the inadequacy of
existing institutions have been serious impediments to the restoration of
highway services, and IDA-financed highway projects have, like its other
projects in the transport sector, been characterized by a concentration on
technical assistance, basic equipment and institution building. This continues
under the present project.
1.03      Arising from recommendations of a 1968 IBRD Economic Mission, a High-
way Administration Project of US$7.6 million, comprising an IDA credit (152-CK)
of US$6.0 million and a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) grant of
US$1.6 million, was signed in 1969. It provided for (a) consulting services
to make recommendations for improving highway administration and maintenance;
(b) purchase of highway maintenance equipment and spare parts and; (c) a pro-
gram of high-priority road rehabilitation works. The project is nearing
completion. The primary object of the Second Highway Project (Credit 292-CK),
signed in 1972, was to assist the Government in establishing an effective
highway administration. It provides for technical assistance in staffing the
newly established highway agency, rehabilitation of about 1,600 km of gravel
roads, procurement of maintenance equipment, and feasibility studies and
engineering. Financing of US$36.1 million for the Second Highway Project is
being provided jointly by IDA (US$19.0 million), UNDP (US$2.2 million), USAID
(US$9.8 million), CIDA (US$4.0 million) and FAC (US$1.1 million), with the
Government providing the local funds. Progress under both projects has been
slow and has faced important difficulties (para. 3.09).
1.04      Several loans for highways were made prior to independence.  A loan of
US$40.0 million for highways (184-BE) was made in 1957 and satisfactorily
completed. Highway improvement was also included in a US$28 million transport



-2-
project (Loan 251-BE) of 1960, but a substantial part of that project was
cancelled in 1964 as political and economic conditions in the country pre-
vented completion. Since independence the lending program for other transport
modes has accorded with the rehabilitation strategy adopted for highway develop-
ment, with a concentration on technical assistance, re-equipment and institu-
tion building. An IDA credit of US$7 million (255-CK) made in 1971 was designed
to restore and improve the river services. A rail-river project, currently
being appraised, will provide for railway track renewal, replacement Qf river
craft, preliminary engineering of a new rail link and further technical
assistance.
1.05      It is anticipated that within the next few years transport develop-
ment strategy will be broadened beyond emergency rehabilitation to encompass
a coordinated effort to upgrade and expand the transport system within the
framework of a national development plan. On the highways side this may
take the form of the development of an all-weather arterial highway network
and feeder roads in support of agriculture. The Bank, through a grant of
US$200,000, is assisting in training Zairan development planners in the
Bureau of the President. The Bank is also executing agency for a UNDP-
financed technical assistance project providing planners to the Bureau of
the President. The present highway project will include studies that will
support the longer-term objectives for the development of the highway network.
1.06      This report is based on the findings and recommendations of the
November/December 1973 appraisal mission by Messrs. I.E. Smith, economist,
and Hans J. Peters, engineer, and the updating mission of June 1974 by
Mr. Peters, assisted by the Resident Mission in Kinshasa. The report was
edited by Ms. J. Murphy.
2. BACKGROUND
A. The Country and Its Economy
2.01      Zaire, situated astride the equator, is the third largest African
country, with an area of 2.4 million km (about one-fourth the size of the
continental United States). Its population has been growing at an average
annual rate of 2.8% since 1960, and exceeded 20 million in 1973, giving an
average density of 9 inhabitants per km2. There is a continuing migration
from the rural areas to the cities with a consequent increase in urban un-
employment.
2.02      In 1973, the GDP was equivalent to approximately US$2.2 billion,
or about US$105 per capita, and is growing at an average rate of 6% per
annum. About 70% of the population is dependent on agriculture but agricul-
tural production has failed to recover from the decline which occurred during
the disruption of the early 1960's. Deterioration of the transport network
and services is a contributory factor.



2.03      Copper is the mainstay of the economy, accounting for about 12%
of GDP and about 74% of exports in 1973. Its relative importance is increas-
ing further with rising production. The remoteness from the sea of the copper
producing area in the extreme southeast of the country accounts for many of
Zaire's transport problems.
B. The Transport Sector (Map 1)
General
2.04      In response to the disruption and subsequent deterioration of trans-
port services, international lending agencies have, largely since 1969, col-
laborated with the Government in rehabilitating the transport system. The
difficulty of finding appropriately qualified local personnel is reflected
in the emphasis being given to technical assistance and institution building.
Rehabilitation and physical improvement of the transport system are likely
to absorb an increasing share of Government expenditure and international aid.
2.05      The coordinated development of the transport system as a means of
evacuating goods, particularly copper, from the interior to Zaire's major
seaport at Matadi is apparent in the high complementarity of the modes. The
Zaire and Kasai river systems constitute the main trunks with railways bypass-
ing unnavigable sections and providing extensions to the system. Highways
play only a subordinate role to this rail/river network except in the north-
east where they are the dominant mode. The current rehabilitation of the
transport system is not, consequently, complicated by problems of competition
among modes, although future development may call for a reappraisal of the
respective modal functions. Owing to the distance of the southeastern
provinces from Matadi and the delays occasioned by transshipments and poor
service on the rail/river trunk system, a substantial proportion of copper
and some agricultural produce is moved by rail through neighboring countries
for export.
2.06      Domestic air transport is growing rapidly and takes on an added
significance owing to the great distance between cities and provincial centers
and the absence of a well-developed surface network. Rudimentary ground
facilities are a constraint, but the Government has embarked on an airport
improvement program. Considerable sums are also being invested in international
services, although the economic need for the scale of these investments is
doubtful.
Highways
2.07      Roads have, up to the present, played a subordinate role in Zaire's
transport sector, serving mostly as local access or feeder roads to the rail/
river system. There is no comprehensive inter-urban highway network and
transport between the main centers is mostly provided byrother modes. Highways,
which were never highly developed, have deteriorated through neglect over the
last decade. The highway system is reviewed in detail in Chapter 3.



-4-
Ports and Rivers
2.08      Despite its great area, Zaire has only about 30 km of seacoast on
the Atlantic Ocean. Access to the sea is principally through the 158 km
long Zaire River estuary, extending 158 km from Matadi to the coast. Traffic
through Matadi amounted to 1.2 million metric tons in 1973. A study is pre-
sently underway to determine the port's capacity limit and to assess required
improvements to cope with future traffic.
2.09      The Zaire and Kasai Rivers, with their tributaries and several lakes,
provide about 14,000 km of navigable waterways serving most parts of the
country except the northeast. There are about 70 ports on the system, the
principal ones being Kinshasa on the Zaire River and Ilebo on the Kasai River,
situated at the key rail/river transshipment points. Kisangani, Mbandaka, and
Bumba on the Zaire River, and Bandundu on the Kasai River are other important
river ports. River traffic passing through the port of Kinshasa stabilized
at around 1.1 million metric tons in 1969 but has probably resumed a rising
trend with the recovery of copper prices. About 55Z of traffic, including
copper exported via Matadi, uses the Kasai River and its tributaries
and about 45% uses the Zaire and its tributaries. Kalemie, situated. at the
railhead on Lake Tanganyika, is the principal lake port and gives access to
the East African Railway system.
2.10      Ports and services on the estuary and river system are operated
principally by an autonomous state agency, the Office Nationale des Transports
(ONATRA) which also operates rail services between Matadi and Kinshasa.
ONATRA handles about 95% of all domestic waterborne traffic. The maintenance
of facilities and control of navigation is carried out respectively by the
Government-owned agencies, Regie des Voies Maritime and Regie des Voies
Fluviales. The deterioration of the river services throughout the 1960's
was particularly marked.
Railways
2.11      Zaire's rail network, which in conjunction with the river services
provides access to the interior, comprises five systems totalling about
5,130 km. Ownership and control was, until recently, divided amongst public
and private agencies but these are now being consolidated into a single,
Government-owned national railway company.
Civil Aviation
2.12      Zaire has about 40 airports served by scheduled domectic services
linking all the major towns. Kinshasa, Zaire's main airport, is served by
10 international carriers; also some international services pass through
Lubumbashi. In addition there are about 150 other minor airfields and strips
without scheduled services. Although these airports provide the basis of a
comprehensive airway system, operations are impeded by the poor condition of
runways, buildings and equipment and a shortage of qualified personnel. How-
ever, the Government, recognizing the importance of a domestic air service,
has embarked on an ambitious program of airport improvement with assistance
from bilateral agencies.



- 5 -
2.13      Government-owned Air Zaire is the principal domestic carrier; it
also operates international services. The international fleet (6 large
aircraft) has recently been expanded and more aircraft are on order. It is
doubtful whether the international route structure justifies such a large
fleet.
C. Transport Policy and Coordination
2.14      There is, at present, no effective machinery for formulating trans-
port policy or coordinating the operation and development of the respective
transport modes. Responsibility for roads and road transport is vested in
the Ministry of Public Works while responsibility for railways, waterways and
civil aviation lies in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Recently,
a unit has been set up within the latter Ministry to coordinate the investment
in transport but in the absence of overall planning guidelines it does not
appear to play a very effective role. The issue will be addressed in the IBRD
Economic Report currently in preparation.
2.15      Owing to the complementary relationship of the individual transport
modes and the current preoccupation with rehabilitating the existing transport
network, the question of inter-modal coordination is not, at this stage,
pressing. However, policy and sector planning considerations are likely to
become increasingly important with the development of the system (see paras.
3.15 and 4.11). The primary requisite is a comprehensive and clearly defined
Government policy and national development plan.  The staff of the Planning
Service in the Bureau of the President is being strengthened with UNDP/IBRD
assistance for this Purpose. In addition, planning units in the Ministry of
Public Works and ONATRA are being set up under IDA-financed projects. Atten-
tion should next be given to the establishment of an effective coordinating
agency at the transport sector level. Possible arrangements are currently
being investigated by an IBRD economic mission. In the meantime there is a
need for a systematic collection of statistical data, and in this regard the
present project provides for a comprehensive road traffic survey (para. 4.11).
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network
3.01      The road network comprises about 140,000 km of roads, about half of
which are classified as roads of general interest (routes d'interet general-
RIG) which make up the main road network and the other half as local roads
(routes d'interet local). Within the RIG category (Table 1), there are about
20,000 km of roads connecting main centers of activity which have recently
been designated as priority roads. Road density is only 0.03 km/km2 and
varies throughout the country.



-6-
3.02      Only about 2,000 km of roads are bitumen paved; the rest have
either an earth or gravel surface. No road inventory exists, and information
on the state of roads, particularLy the local roads, is limited, though it
can be said that standards are generally low. Maintenance is poor; many roads
are impassable and structures are often collapsed. The network includes some
330 ferries of which about 60% are out of service.
3.03      Since 1969 there has been virtually no addition to the network;
available funds, supplemented by international assistance since the late
1960's, have been used for improving, rehabilitating or maintaining existing
roads. Insufficient funds and inefficient highway administration have,
however, resulted in a net deterioration of the system which is now inadequate
for Zaire's road transport requirements.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.04      From 1969 to 1972 the vehicle fleet (Table 2) grew at an average
annual rate of nearly 11%, with a 10% growth rate for passenger cars and 12%
for trucks. These trends are reflected in the statistics for gasoline and
diesel oil consumption over the same period (Table 3). Of the approximately
151,400 units in 1972, the latest year for which statistics are available,
about 81,400 were passenger cars, 54,350 were trucks and 2,500 were buses.
The predominance of passenger cars is confined to urban areas with trucks
predominating elsewhere. Vehicle density is low, amounting to only 7.6
vehicles per 1,000 inhabitants, and varies significantly among regions.
3.05      Despite the relatively high vehicle growth rate in recent years,
road traffic may only now be reattaining its pre-independence level. Road
counts indicate that the recovery has mainly been concentrated in the vicinity
of the larger towns and on the principal inter-urban routes, particularly the
Kinshasa-Matadi road, and that traffic on minor roads serving agricultural
areas is still well below its 1959 level.
C. The Road Transport Industry
3.06      The road transport industry is characterized by a few large firms
operating 100 vehicles or more and a large but unknown number of small oper-
ators, many of whom own only a sin.gle vehicle. In addition, a number of
organizations operate large vehicle fleets for transporting their own goods.
Generally speaking the smaller operators appear less well-managed than the
larger enterprises, but they serve a valuable economic function by providing
transport on the poorer roads and in remote localities avoided by the larger
companies. Regulations governing operations and pricing apply only to the
larger companies. The application of such regulations to the larger companies
only, leaving the smaller operators free to negotiate their own rates, could
be regarded as a potentially destabilizing factor should the larger operators
be left at a competitive disadvantage as the small subsector expands unimpeded



-7 -
by entry restrictions. However, the regulations are not rigorously enforced
and price controls are, at present, only being imposed as maxima, leaving
all companies scope for rate negotiations. Transfer of ownership from
expatriates to Zairans under policies adopted in November 1973 has affected
both large and small operators, and has caused a presumed temporary fall
in the supply of transport.
D. Highway Administration
3.07      Before 1971 the responsibility for roads rested with the Department
of Roads and Bridges in the Ministry of Public Works. The department was
poorly staffed, and the training and experience of most of its staff were
inadequate. The situation was particularly critical in the regions and the
department had virtually ceased to function in many areas, an important
factor in the progressive deterioration of the highway network.
3.08      Under the First Highway Project, consultants recommended the crea-
tion of an autonomous agency, with its own source of funds and independent of
the Ministry of Public Works, to assume responsibility for 22,000 km of the
most important roads. In March 1971, the Government instead created the
Bureau of Roads within the Ministry of Public Works, with responsibility for
improving and constructing, maintaining, and rehabilitating roads, bridges
and ferries; recurrent and capital funds continued to be allocated from the
national budget. Initially about 69,000 km of roads (i.e., those classified
as roads of general interest) were placed under the Bureau's jurisdiction and
in 1972 its responsibilities were extended to include all urban roads as well.
The Bureau's responsibilities were altered again in February 1974 as part of
a major reorganization, and at present they are confined to the 20,000 km of
priority roads (para. 3.01). All roads not falling under the Bureau's juris-
diction have been left to local authorities who, however, have neither the
funds nor organization to look after them.
3.09      Under the Second Highway Project, a contract was signed in early
February 1972 with the Association Internationale Zaire Routes (AIZR), a
consortium composed of the consulting firms, Louis Berger International (USA),
BCEOM/SCET (France) and Research and Development (Belgium) to furnish
technical assistance to the Bureau; in all, 47 positions were filled. This
assistance has been supplemented by experts provided under various bilateral
aid programs. Despite this substantial technical assistance, however,
progress in creating an effective highway administration has been slow.
The main reasons for this have been: (i) shortage of competent Zairan
personnel at all levels, particularly during the initial stages of the
project before counterparts were appointed; (ii) frequent restructuring of
the Bureau of Roads and changes in its scope of responsibilities (para. 3.08);
(iii) the absence of a consistent highway sector policy and consequent lack
of rational investment and operational planning (paras. 2.14 and 2.15);
(iv) limited funds for road rehabilitation, maintenance and administration;
and (v) difficult logistic problems of road maintenance aggravated by the
delayed arrival of equipment under the Second Highway Project. During 1974,



- 8 -
however, the situation in the Bureau has begun to gradually improve. An
efficient expatriate general manager has been appointed to the Bureau.
Almost all maintenance equipment provided under the Second Highway Project
has arrived in Zaire and is being used for the maintenance of the 20,000 km
of priority roads. Rehabilitation of more than 2,000 km of priority roads
has started and is making satisfactory progress. More than 700 local highway
personnel have been trained and assumed functions in all branches of the
Bureau. These factors combined with a closer project supervision made
possible by the presence of two transport experts in the Bank's Resident
Mission in Kinshasa make it reasonable to expect continuing improvement in
the Bureau.
3.10      The present organization which was established in February 1974
(Chart) calls for three operating Divisions (Engineering, Maintenance
and Ferry), headquartered in Kinshasa, and 13 field offices in 8 sectors
(Map 2). The field offices are subdivided into 55 operational bases, each
presently responsible for 500 km of roads. Most key positions were filled
by local personnel and expatriate counterparts were appointed to advisory
positions. Though the number of qualified local staff is increasing, the
Bureau must depend on technical assistance for some years to come.
3.11      Considerable training of highway personnel is being carried out at
various local institutions and under a number of international and bilateral
aid programs (see Annex 1). These efforts are, however, uncoordinated and
fragmented. A training advisor will be employed as part of the technical
assistance provided under the project (para. 4.02) to make an overall assess-
ment of training needs in the highway sector and to arrange for a coordinated
training program to meet present and future needs. The necessary arrangements
and financial requirements for this training program will be known only after
this expert has made his assessment. In the meantime, training of highway
personnel will continue under present arrangements.
E. Highway Planning and Financing
3.12      The Engineering Division of the Bureau is responsible for highway
planning but the plans it has produced to date may not reflect the actual
and potential demand for road transport. The main reasons are: (i) lack of
an overall economic development plan, (ii) shortage of appropriately qualified
personnel, and (iii) lack of data.
3.13      A total of about 3,600 km of roads of general interest are scheduled
for construction to bitumen standards by 1980. This program has its origin
largely in the concept of the "Grande Boucle," a road that would connect the
major towns of Kinshasa, Kananga, Bukavu, Kisangani and Nbandaka. Its esti-
mated total cost is US$650 million with a local cost of about US$160 million.
Feasibility studies are being carried out by consultants. A further 1,600
km of roads of general interest are scheduled for rehabilitation to gravel
standards by 1976 under the Second Highway Project at a total estimated cost
of US$30 million. In addition, 3,000 km of gravel road and all existing



-9-
paved roads (2,000 km) are scheduled for rehabilitation by 1980 with local
financing; estimated costs are US$75 million. Also, a comprehensive ferry
rehabilitation program is scheduled for implementation before 1980 with
estimated total costs of US$9 million. Even assuming financial assistance
from bilateral and multilateral sources, the realization of this program will
require an average annual capital budget on the part of the Government of about
US$40 million in 1974 terms, and preparation and execution will require sub-
stantial local expertise which will not be available in sufficient numbers
for some years to come.
3.14      Budget provisions for highways have averaged US$30 million to US$35
million over the last three years of which about a third was allocated to the
capital budget. This is in line with the Credit Agreement for the Second
Highway Project whereby the Government undertook to allocate at least US$20.0
million annuallv to the highway budget during the project period. No new
construction has been financed by the Government since independence, the capital
budget having been devoted to rehabilitation of existing roads, primarily in
urban areas. The realization of the construction (para. 3.13) and maintenance
(para. 3.24) programs planned will require a total annual Government highway
budget twice those previously provided; i.e., capital budgets of about US$40
million and recurrent budgets of about US$35 million equivalent. As a step
toward meeting this requirement the Government has decided to earmark revenues
from gasoline and diesel taxes to supplement the capital highway budget start-
ing in 1974. At present (1974) consumption levels, this would generate about
USS5.0 million annually.
3.15      The highway development program outlined above is not based on a
comprehensive assessment of transport requirements nor does it take full
account of the potential ability of river and rail services to help meet
such demand. Thus, there is a danger that the program does not reflect
optimal use of Zaire's financial resources.  There is an added danger that
urgently required road maintenance and rehabilitation will suffer should the
Government experience difficulty in meeting the large budget requirements
implied by its construction program. If the country's agricultural sector is
to be adequately served, the network of maintained roads should be expanded
beyond the 20,000 km now designated as priority roads which alone will
necessitate annual expenditures of some US$30 million by 1980. lJnder the
project systematic arrangements for highway maintenance will be established
(paras. 3.25 and 4.18).
F. Highway Engineering
3.16      Engineering falls under the responsibility of the Engineering
Division of the Bureau which is, however, short of qualified personnel.
The Government, in a recent attempt to overcome this shortage, requires all
individuals who have undergone a civil engineering education at one of the
local institutes to serve the Government for two years, mostly in the highway
administration. The success of the program remains to be seen.



- 10 -
3.17      Consultants are employed to carry out detailed engineering and
prepare tender documents. Design standards (Table 4) prepared under the
Second Highway Project are followed and satisfactory legal tender documents,
standardized for all civil works, are used for road construction contracts.
3.18      The National Public Works Laboratory which was established before
independence has been re-equipped with French aid under the Second Highway
Project and local staff is being trained. Progress is satisfactory. The
laboratory, which is an independent, self-financing unit, carries out all
necessary surveys and testing for highways.
G. Highway Construction
3.19      Highway construction is carried out by contractors after competi-
tive bidding. Prequalification is not standard procedure but is carried
out under most contracts financed by external aid. Contracts are normally
unit-price based. About fifteen foreign contractors, mostly of Belgian and
Italian origin, have branches in Zaire. In November 1973 the Government
announced its intention to create a national construction company into which
all civil engineering contractors established in the country would merge.
This has not taken effect to date and contractors continue operating as
before. Some foreign contractors have taken local partners whose shares in
the firms' assets do not exceed 20%. There are no domestic contractors
capable of carrying out highway construction work.
3.20      The Engineering Division with thirteen field offices is responsible
for construction administration. As mentioned in para. 3.16, qualified local
personnel is insufficient. Supervision of all major construction is carried
out by consultants and the Government intends to continue retaining consul-
tants for this purpose.
H. Highway Maintenance
3.21      Following independence, highway maintenance was neglected, and
roads deteriorated at a fast pace. To prevent this, USAID proposed the
introduction of "convention" arrangements, whereby enterprises such as
plantations, mining societies, etc., which have an interest in keeping roads
trafficable would maintain them with Government subsidy. The system was
approved by the Government, and maintenance under these provisions began in
1962 with the Government contributing on the average US$150/km per year out
of USAID grants. About 20,000 km of roads were so maintained. USAID pro-
vided full financing under the "convention" program until 1968 and subse-
quently reduced its contribution annually until 1972 when it ceased providing
funds; road maintenance under these arrangements then stopped. No specifi-
cations for maintenance existed during this period and supervision, largely
carried out by UNDP technical assistance, was infrequent.



11 -
3.22      In the late 1960's the Government began to build up a labor force
to maintain heavily trafficked roads, and about 3,000 km of roads were cared
for in this way. Administration and control of the labor force proved diffi-
cult, however, and early in 1973 all laborers were dismissed. A Government
order instructed local authorities to use voluntary village labor to maintain
roads in their neighborhoods.   This was the only arrangement for maintenance
during the first nine months of 1973. Although training of skilled labor for
maintenance under the Second Highway Project has produced a sizable number
of operators and mechanics and maintenance equipment started arriving in
Zaire in mid-1973., force account highway maintenance could not be effectively
organized becai-se of inadequate management in the Bureau and the lack of
logistic support for maintenance operations.
3.23      In October 1973 the Government decided to contract with locally-based
contractors for highway maintenance and to reintroduce "convention" arrange-
ments for a total of 41,000 km of roads. In addition, the Bureau was to maintain,
with its own forces, 1,000 km in 1974 increasing to 15,000 km by 1980. About
40 maintenance contracts were signed on the basis of US$220/km per year under
the "convention" arrangements and at US$500/km per year for contractors. The
Government leased out most of the equipment provided under the Second Highway
Project for this purpose. However, in March 1974 all contracts had to be
terminated because costs exceeded the budget and the Bureau drew up a new
maintenance program based on its revised responsibilities (para. 3.08).
3.24      Of the 20,000 km of priority roads which are now the Bureau's
responsibility, about 1,500 km are being maintained on a force account basis;
the remainder are being maintained by contractors at a cost of US$850/km per
year, but the Bureau is gradually to take over these roads and, within ten
years, maintain them with its own forces. The remaining 49,000 km of roads
of general interest are to be maintained by local authorities, with the Govern-
ment prepared to contribute about US$2.0 million annually on an emergency basis
to keep roads open. No arrangements are envisaged for maintenance of the
approximately 71,000 km of local roads.
3.25      There is a need for a systematic highway maintenance program based
on an assessment of existing and future demand for road transport. The Govern-
ment agreed, under the Second Highway Project to establish such a program but
the few attempts to do so have been ineffective due to the lack of data, the
absence of a consistent highway sector policy and the changing arrangements
for highway maintenance. Under the project the Government has undertaken to
collect data and prepare a comprehensive highway maintenance plan by March 31,
1978, an  interim highway maintenance plan to be followed until that date in
accordance with sound engineering practices (para. 4.18).
3.26      Within the Bureau of Roads, responsibility for road rehabilitation
and maintenance lies with the Maintenance Division which, like the Engineering
Division, suffers from a shortage of qualified staff. Planning, programming
and budgeting of maintenance is done in Kinshasa with supervision and execution
by the 13 field offices. Because equipment procurement and repair facilities
are poor, the Government plans to create an independent and self-financing



- 12 -
organization with responsibility for the organization and administration of a
logistic support system for highway rehabilitation and maintenance. This
effort will be supported under the project (para. 4.05).
4. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      The project, intended to strengthen the Bureau of Roads, to continue
development of local expertise in highway administration and maintenance, and
to provide for the rehabilitation of key roads, consists of:
(i) technical assistance to the Bureau of Roads;
(ii) organization of two pilot highway maintenance schemes;
(iii) establishment of a country-wide logistic support system
for highway maintenance;
(iv) rehabilitation of about 600 km of gravel road, including
the necessary detailed engineering and supervision;
(v) feasibility studies for about 1,700 km of roads; and
(vi) a comprehensive traffic survey.
Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Roads
4.02      Under the Second Highway Project, financing was provided for 47
expatriate experts furnished by the international consultant group AIZR
(para. 3.09) who were assigned to key executive positions in the then newly
created Bureau of Roads. These positions have gradually been filled with
Zairan staff (para. 3.10) with most expatriate experts rendering technical
assistance in advisory positions. The contractual arrangements with AIZR
for such technical assistance terminated in December 1974. In view of the
continuing need for technical assistance to the Bureau, 24 expatriate experts,
all except one in advisory positions, will be provided under the project for
three years (Table 5). Draft terms of reference are set out in Annex 2.
These experts will not only assist in the administration of the road sector
but also contribute to the development of skilled manpower by advising local
counterparts and thus help them to gain expertise in fulfilling the various
functions in the Bureau of Roads.
4.03      AGCD, FAC and UNDP/Funds in Trust, have agreed to provide financing
for 16 experts, the remaining eight experts will be financed by the Association.
17 experts are already in the field under existing contracts with AGCD, IBRD,
UNDP and AIZR. For most of the 7 vacant positions candidates are under



- 13 -
consideration. Further specialized technical assistance is included under
the pilot highway maintenance scheme--4 experts (para. 4.04), and under the
logistic support system--10 experts (para. 4.06).
Pilot Highway Maintenance Schemes
4.04      In order to enable the Bureau of Roads to gradually take over main-
tenance of the country's road network (para. 3.24), the project provides for
two pilot highway maintenance schemes which will serve as a training ground
for Bureau maintenance staff in managing highway maintenance. The first
pilot scheme will be organized in the Bas Zaire region. Under this scheme,
about 1,650 km of gravel roads will be rehabilitated and routine maintenance
will be carried out on an additional 1,530 km of roads over a period of three
years (Table 6). Administration, permanent workshop and stores facilities
will be improved, existing maintenance equipment will be repaired and supple-
mented as required, and spare parts will be provided (Table 7). Four expatriate
engineers will provide technical assistance to help implement the scheme and
train staff. By January 1977 the Government will work out details for a second
pilot highway maintenance scheme to be organized in one of the seven other
regions of the country. The implementation will start in 1977. Tentative
funds are included under the project to help cover the costs of mobilizing
the second scheme which will incorporate the skills and experience gained under
the first scheme.
Logistic Support System for Highway Maintenance
4.05      The Bureau of Roads has no satisfactory organization for servicing
its equipment. The Government therefore intends to create an organization
to maintain and repair such equipment, giving it responsibility for procure-
ment and distribution of spare parts. This organization's primary respon-
sibility will be the Bureau's equipment, but its services will also be
available to enterprises presently maintaining roads and to other Government
departments. It will have its own administration with supervisory control
by the Bureau of Roads and will be self-financing in that it will charge for
services rendered.
4.06      The project will help establish this organization over a period of
three years by providing
(i) improvement and extension of existing workshop, store and
office buildings in Kinshasa, Mbandaka, Kisangani, Bukavu,
Kananga and Lubumbashi;
(ii) workshop tools and equipment;
(iii)  ten experts to render technical assistance to the new organization;
and to train local staff.



- 14 -
Road Rehabilitation
4.07      The existing road (604 km) from Kabinda to Kindu will be rehabilitated
to gravel standard under the project. The road passes through generally flat
to rolling savanna for the first 500 km from Kabinda and traverses dense
tropical forest in undulating terrain over the last 100 km. Between Kasongo
and Kindu the road crosses a considerable number of streams draining into the
Lualaba River; it includes three ferry crossings. Soil conditions vary from
lateritic to sandy. The road is generally in poor condition with inadequate
drainage and deteriorated structures; the surface ia badly eroded. Rehabili-
tation will include minor improvement of the existing alignment and of drainage,
rehabilitation of structures and provision of a new gravel surface over a
6 m width. About 50 km of the road surface will be bitumen-stabilized in
the absence of suitable granular material. Detailed engineer ing and tender
documents have been prepared by the French consultants BCEOM/SCET. This will
be retroactively financed under the project. No construction problems are
foreseen.
Feasibility Studies
4.08      The Government intends to request Bank Group assistance in financing
the paving of a trunk road system which would constitute the inter-regional
network described in para. 3.13. A number of international and bilateral
agencies--notably the European Development Fund, Belgium and the Federal
Republic of Germany--have already been approached and have agreed to finance
the studies for, and if warranted the construction of, several sections of
this paved road network (Map 1). The Government has asked the Association
to finance studies for two additional road links. In view of the scarcity
of basic data concerning prevailing conditions in the rural areas, their
potential for economic development and therefore the likely future demand
for transport, the feasibility studies will actually be regional development
studies; that is, they will assess the existing and potential economic
activity of the region(s) to be served, determine the necessary ancillary
investments required to foster such development, and explore the optimum
solution for providing sufficient transport capacity.
4.09      While much of the country is adequately served by the existing
river/rail trunk system and the need for costly paved roads in competition
with this system is not apparent at this time, several regions are not effec-
tively served by any trunk connection. One such corridor is that running
southwest to northeast from Mbuji Mayi to Lubutu (about 1,000 km), an area
where economic activity is largely dormant today. The feasibility study will
cover a variety of investigations in rural development strategies in the
regions covered and explore various alignments and stage construction alter-
natives for a possible paved road connection. The Kabinda-Kindu road to be
improved to gravel standard under the project also serves this corridor.
4.10      Under the ongoing Second Highway Project, CIDA has agreed to finance
detailed engineering of a paved trunk road in the Kikwit-Kananga corridor
(about 700 km) and the Government intends to request Bank Group assistance
in the financing of this road under a future highway project. The existing
feasibility study for this road was carried out in 1970/71 and shows a low



- t 5 -
economic return, but it does not reflect the road's possible role as an inter-
regional connection. The study will be updated under the project, including
an assessment of future transport demand in the corridor, taking into con-
sideration existing river and rail transport and the proposed rail link
between Ilebo and Kinshasa. Retroactive financing may be required for these
services. Detailed engineering has been postponed until the results of this
updating study are known.
Traffic Survey
4.11      Under the Second Highway Project, the Government agreed to prepare
a comprehensive highway development plan to reflect present and future
patterns of road transport demand. The Bureau of Roads, however, has not had
sufficient staff to make a comprehensive assessment of existing road traffic
which is a necessary before such a plan can be prepared. To help in preparing
a highway development plan without undue further delay the project provides
for a comprehensive road traffic survey to be carried out by the consultants
who will also organize a traffic counting unit in the Bureau of Roads and
train local personnel for these purposes over a period of three years. During
negotiations, the Government has agreed that such a unit will be established
and that traffic data will be collected as necessary for sound highway sector
planning.
B. Execution
4.12      The Ministry of Public Works, through the Bureau of Roads, will be
responsible for executing the project, in which it will be assisted by 38
technical experts to be provided; 24 for the Bureau of Roads administration
(para. 4.02), 4 for the pilot highway maintenance scheme (para. 4.04) and 10
for the logistic support system (para. 4.06). The Government has agreed to
engage technical experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment will be satisfactory to the Association.  Further,
the Government has undertaken to appoint in a timely manner qualified counter-
parts to the technical experts and it agreed to ensure that the Bureau would
be administered at all times by competent managers and personnel adequate
in number.
4.13      The pilot hiRhwav maintenance schemes will he ifnleprented Iv the
Maintenance Division of the B3ureau.  The nroeram i -nRas 7asre is exnected to
start in mid-1975, and to last three vears.  The nrreram in the other reelon
to be selected is expected to start earlv 177.  Its duration denenls on
the organizational details to be Drenared bv Januarv 1077. rau"i-nient to he
provided under the Drolect will be orocured on the basis of international
competitive biddinR in accordance with Bank/TTIA euirel1ines.  Procurements
estimated to cost less than usfsn,nnn eauivalent can he made on the hanis
of local quotations. Construction of all workshons, stores and office
buildings because of their small size and scattered nature is unl leTl to
attract international contractors: so contracts will he ararded on the h5sig



- 14 -
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures, which are satisfactory to the Association. The Government will
prepare before credit effectiveness an implementation schedule for the pilot
scheme in Bas Zaire acceptable to the Association.
4.14      With the Association's concurrence the Government has appointed
the Swiss consultants ORT who have successfully operated in Zaire in the
field of maintenance organization and personnel training under the Second
Highway Project, to establish, over a period of three years, the organization
for logistic support for highway maintenance and to train local staff to
manage the system. An implementation schedule acceptable to the Association
will be prepared by the Government before credit effectiveness. Agreement
was reached with the Government to review with the Association in January
1977 the progress made under the logistic support system, to exchange views
on the role of the consultants and, depending on the outcome of this review,
to make changes in the implementation schedule. Procurement of necessary
equipment will be on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines, except for contracts estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 for which the provision outlined under para. 4.13 applies.
Improvement of workshop facilities will be by contracts acceptable to the
Association awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally.
4.15      The Government plans to complete rehabilitation of the Kabinda-
Kindu road by mid-1977; to achieve this, the work will be divided into three
contracts:  Kabinda-Sentery (177 km), Sentery-Kasongo (178 km), Kasongo-Kindu
(249 km). All construction contracts will be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. The
Government intends to retain the French consultants BCEOM who have prepared
the detailed engineering for construction supervision. Rehabilitation is
expected to start in August 1975 and is scheduled for completion by March
1977. The Government agreed that the road will be adequately maintained
after rehabilitation.
4.16      The feasibility study for the Mbuji Mayi-Lubutu road will be carried
out by consultants employed in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. The study
will start in late-1975 and the draft final report is expected to be available
in mid-1977. The complementary feasibility study for the Kikwit-Kananga road
will be undertaken by the consultants already commissioned to carry out
detailed engineering of that road under the Second Highway Project.
4.17      The traffic survey will be carried out under the responsibility of
the Engineering Division of the Bureau with the assistance of consultants,
appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The
survey will start in late 1975 with a view of completion by late 1977. After
completing the survey, the consultants will remain in the Bureau to help
establish the traffic counting unit.
4.18      During negotiations the Government undertook to prepare highway
maintenance plans by specific dates. A comprehensive highway maintenance plan
will be prepared by March 31, 1978, and an interim highway maintenance plan
to be followed until that date, before credit effectiveness. These plans
will be prepared by the Maintenance Division of the Bureau.



- 17 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.19      The total capital cost of the project is estimated at US$40.3
million with a foreign exchange component of US$27.8 million (69%). Detailed
cost estimates are given in Table 8 and summarized below.
Foreign
---Zaire million-    -US$ million----   Exchange
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Component
I. Technical Assistance to
the Bureau of Roads           0.89   1.19   2.08   1.79   2.38   4.17         57%
II. Pilot Highway Maintenance
Schemes                       0.47   3.02   3.49   0.93   6.05   6.98         87%
III. Logistic Support System
for Maintenance               1.08   1.79   2.87   2.17   3.58   5.75         62%
IV. Road Rehabilitation           1.82   3.09   4.91   3.63   6.17   9.80         63%
V. Construction Supervision    0.08   0.39   0.47   0.16   0.78   0.94           83%
VI. Studies                       0.52   1.27   1.79   1.04   2.54   3.58         71%
Base Cost Estimate         4.86  10.75  15.61   9.72  21.50  31.22
VII. Contingencies
a) Physical                   0.48   1.08   1.56   0.97   2.15   3.12
b) Price Increases            0.90   2.08   2.98   1.80   4.16   5.96
1.38   3.16   4.54   2.77   6.31   9.08
Total Expected Cost
of Project               6J4  13.91  "n.1-/-'1.1-0-27.81  40.30           69%
/1   Taxes and duties represent about 5% of the total project costs.



- ip8 -
4.20      The estimated cost of technical assistance to the Bureau of Roads,
the pilot maintenance schemes and the logistic support system, is based upon
current contract rates for experts in Zaire. The costs of equipment and
buildings for the pilot maintenance schemes are based upon estimates prepared
by the Bureau of Roads in April 1974 while those for the logistic support
system were derived from an ORT estimate prepared in June 1974. The cost
estimates for road rehabilitation are based on quantities derived from recently
completed detailed engineering and a survey of unit prices for construction
in Zaire made by consultants in May 1974: the cost of detailed engineering
is based on the consultants' actual contract, and the cost on supervision
on Association estimates. The cost of feasibility studies has been estimated
by consultants on the basis of average prices per kilometer while that of the
traffic survey has been estimated by the Association on the basis of man-month
requirements. All estimates appear reasonable and reflect conditions prevail-
ing in January 1975. In project:Lng the base cost estimate to January 1975,
the annual rate of price increase during 1974 was estimated at 18% for civil
works and equipment and 10% for izechnical assistance.
4.21      A 10% physical contingency for all project items allows for possible
quantity variations and delays iTI works. A price contingency of about 19% has
been provided to cover possible price increases during the project period.
This has been derived by applying the following price escalation rates to the
base cost estimates plus physical contingencies, taking into consideration
price trends both in the international market and within Zaire: for technical
assistance and consultants' services, 10% per annumt for civil works, 16% in
1975, 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977 and 10% in 1978; for equipment and material,
15% in 1975, 12% in 1976 and 10% in 1977 and 1978.
D. Financing and Disbursements
4.22      The proposed IDA credit of US$26.0 million would cover 93% of the
foreign exchange capital costs of the project (or 65% of the total capital
costs). AGCD, FAC, and UNDP/Funds in Trust have agreed to finance about
US$1.5 million foreign exchange costs of technical assistance to the Bureau.
Formal agreements are pending. However it was agreed that the Government
would make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the financing
of technical assistance positions not covered by the credit before credit
effectiveness. The Government will finance the remaining foreign costs of
the project (US$0.3 million), all local project costs (US$12.49 million),
and the recurrent costs of the pilot maintenance schemes (US$5.0 million per
annum in 1974 prices). The Government has agreed that it will provide
promtly all funds, staff, facilities and other resources required to assure
efficient execution of the project.
4.23      While there are no recurrent project costs directly associated
with the logistic support system, its effective operation will be contingent
upon regular and adequate road maintenance budget allocations and efficient
distribution of such funds to the regions. This will be reflected in the
interim plan for highway maintenance for the period until March 1978 which
the Government will have to draw up to in a way acceptable to the Association
before credit effectiveness (para. 4.18).



- 19 -
4.24      The Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 30% of the total
expenditures on civil works, except road rehabilitation for which 63% of the
total expenditures will be disbursed: both percentages represent the estimated
foreign exchange component of these expenditures. For technical assistance
and consultant services disbursements will be made on the basis of the actual
foreign exchange costs. Disbursements for equipment, vehicles. tool and spare
parts will be at 100% of the foreign expenditures (c.i.f., port of entry) or,
if locally manufactured, on the basis of ex-factory prices. An estimated
schedule of disbursements is given in Table 9.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01      The poor condition of the highway network, resulting from the dis-
ruptions of the early 1960's and subsequent neglect, is one of the major
impediments to a revival of agricultural activity in Zaire. The principal
project elements - technical assistance and training, procurement of road
maintenance and workshop equipment and road rehabilitation - though different
in character, are intended to play complementary roles in restoring highway
services. The technical assistance and training element is also designed to
assist in equipping the highway administration for the longer-term objectives
of highway planning, maintenance and development.  The studies to be included
In the project will provide a basis for future highway investment,
B. Technical Assistance and Training
5.02      A key element in the project will be the provision of technical
assistance in the form of 38 experts. The contribution of the experts is
essential to the effective administration, maintenance and development of
the highway system and will play a valuable training role. It will assure
a continuation of technical assistance provided under the Second Highway
Project, though the number of experts will be fewer reflecting an improvement
in the capacity of Zairan personnel to cope with highway administration
matters compared with the situation prevailing at the time the previous
highway project was approved.
C. Pilot Maintenance and Logistic Support
5.03      The primary function of the pilot highway maintenance schemes is to
serve as a training ground for highway maintenance personnel leading to the
improvement of road conditions which will be a by-product of this larger
institution-building goal. For Bas Zaire where the first pilot scheme will



- 20 -
be carried out no detailed survey of current traffic is available for the
3,200 km of roads included, so precise calculations of the economic return
on the investment are not possible. Under the conservative assumptions,
however, that vehicles registered in Bas Zaire travel an average 4.000 km
annually on the gravel roads to be maintained regularly under the scheme,
and that due to improved road conditions, savings in vehicle operating costs
of about 20% will gradually be realized, the proposed investment yields an
economic return of about 20%.  The major benefits, however, will stem from
an improvement of the Bureau's maintenance capability which will gradually
be extended throughout the country.
5.04      The logistic support system will be established country-wide with
operational centers in five major urban areas. It will service and thus
contribute to the optimum utilization of the country's highway maintenance
and construction equipment which is presently estimated to be worth about
US$30.0 million. Because of the lack of equipment maintenance facilities
in the regions, a large part of the equipment is underutilized. By per-
mitting an increase in the rate of utilization of maintenance equipment and
thus helping to assure continuous maintenance of roads, the proposed invest-
ment in the logistic support system can confidently be expected to result
in high economic returns.
D. Road Rehabilitation
5.05      The principal objective of the road rehabilitation proposed for
the project, as of that being carried out under ongoing highway projects. is
not so much to realize an unexploited economic potential or to reduce the
operating costs of existing traffic, but rather to regenerate economic
activity in areas which were highly productive in the comparatively recent
past but which stagnated during and after the dislocation of the early 1960's.
Although this is clearly a sound strategy for highway development at this
stage in Zaire, it presents difficulties of economic evaluation in the
absence of precedents or comparable experience elsewhere and is compounded
by the absence of reliable statistical data. The economic justification put
forward bv the Bureau of Roads in support of the proposed improvements, re-
flecting, in its limited scope both the current staff and data constraints,
tends to concentrate on the more orthodox benefits such as vehicle operating
cost reductions based on extrapolation of current trends, which the Association
believes probably underestimates the potential benefits of economic regener-
ation and indicates fairly modest economic returns. Yet even with this
limited scope of considerations the road ranks high when compared with other
roads proposed for rehabilitation. There is evidence, including increases
in traffic on roads rehabilitated under tne First Highway Project, to suggest
that the regenerative function is a significant one, but it should be frankly
recognized that the proposed investments involve a rather larger element of
chance than is normally admitted in highway projects.



- 21 -
5.06      The immediate objective of the improvement of the Kabinda-Kindu
road will be to revive and help expand the agricultural output of the area
served, which accounted largely for the importance of Kindu as a trade and
transshipment center in the 1950's. Hilly terrain and neglect of maintenance,
particularly in the central section of the road, have discouraged vehicles
which might have had a vitalizing effect on economic activity from using
it.  Rehabilitation to gravel standard will permit significant reductions
in vehicle operating costs through improved running conditions and distance
reductions, thereby generating new traffic and diverting traffic from poorer
roads.  In the longer term the road will form an important link in the
national highway network which Zaire is beginning to develop.
5.07      It is estimated that average daily traffic (ADT) for 1973 ranged
from 12 to 22 vehicles on different sections of the road and consisted
predominantly of trucks, with a few, smaller four-wheel drive vehicles.
Traffic is forecast to increase to a uniform ADT of 30 the first year of
operation after improvement, with increases of 30! the second year, 20% the
third and 10% annually thereafter for the remainder of the 7-year evaluation
period. It is estimated that the improvement will reduce operating costs
from an average of US$0.58 to US$0.32 per km for trucks and from US$0.30 to
US$0.18 per km for four-wheel drive vehicles. The benefits arising through
induced agricultural production and these vehicle operating cost savings are
estimated to yield an economic return on the investment of the order of 20%. 1/
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations. agreement was reached with the Govern-
ment on the following matters:
(i) organization of a road traffic survey unit within the
Bureau (para. 4.11);
(ii)  administration of the Bureau at all times by competent and
experienced managers and personnel in adequate numbers and
with adequate supporting facilities, services and resources
(paras. 4.12 and 4.22):
(iii) employment of technical assistants whose qualifications.
experience and terms and conditions of employment will be
satisfactory to the Association: and appointment in a timely
manner of qualified and experienced persons as counterparts
to technical assistants (para. 4.12):
(iv)  procurement of equipment and material under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association; international
competitive bidding for contracts estimated to cost
USS50,000 equivalent or more (paras. 4.13 and 4.14);
1/   Shadow rates:  Foreign exchange:  1.25; unskilled labor: 0.5.



- 22 -
(v) employment of consultants acceptable to the Association under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (paras.
4.14, 4.15, 4.16 and 4.17);
(vi)  review in January 1977 of Progress under the logistic
support system and exchange of views on the role of the
consultants organizing the system and training personnel
to identify required changes in the implementation
schedule (para. 4.14);
(vii)  employment of civil works contractors acceptable to the
Association under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.15);
(viii)  preparation of a comprehensive highway maintenance plan by
March 31, 1978, and preparation of an interim highway
maintenance plan for the period until that date and
maintenance of all roads identified in maintenance plans
in accordance with sound engineering practices (paras.
3.25 and 4.18).
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness will be that the Government
submit to and secure the Association's approval on the following:
(i) arrangement for the financing of the sixteen technical
assistants' positions in the Bureau not covered by the
credit (para. 4.03)
(ii)  arrangements for staffing of the technical assistants'
positions to be provided under the project (para. 4.12):
(iii)  implementation plans for the pilot highway maintenance
scheme in Bas Zaire and the logistic support system
(paras. 4.13 and 4.14): and
(iv)  an interim plan for highway maintenance, to be followed
until the completion of the comprehensive highway maintenance
plan by March 31, 1978 (paras. 3.25 and 4.18).
6.03      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$26.0 million to
the Government of the Republic of Zaire on the usual terms.
January 29, 1975



TABLE 1
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Main Highway Network!/
Gravel/     Priority
Region              Area       Total      Paved       Earth      -Roads2      Ferries
I1~~~~~~~iT(IM
Bas Zairel/        60,000      3,800        755       3,045        1,115         9
Bandundu          300,000     12,300        l05      12,195        1,850        77
Equateur          402,000     12,300         -       12,300       4,900         29
Haute Zaire       502,000     13,600        160      13,440        5,000        83
Kivu              260,000      7,800        400       7,1400       2,750        26
Shaba             498,ooo     12,000        475      11,525       3,130         26
Kasai Oriental    170,000      3,700        145       3,555       1,055         37
Kasai Occidental  156,000      3,500         10 .     3,490          800        47
TOTAL           21,348,000    69,000      2,o50      66,950       20,600       334
J Roads classified as routes d'interet general according to road classification
by Ordonnance loi No. 71/078 of March 26, 1971.
v     Those routes d'int'er4t general designated as routes prioritaires under the
Bureau of Roadst highway sector program of February 1974.
/ Excluding Kinshasa.
Source: Bureau of Roads, June 1974
January 1975



TABLE 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehic-Le Fleet 1969-1972
Passenger Cars                                Trucks
1969      1970     1971      1972       1969      1970     1971      1977
Kinshasa        32,,432   34,318   38,880   46,706      12,656   15,034   20,027   22,923
Bas Zaire        4,713    4,999    5,512    5,647        4,352    4,766    4,845    4,946
Bandundu           708       752      868       932      1j,474    1 ,552    1,671    1,800
Equateur         1,281    1,383    1,520    1,644        2,388    2,627    2,713    2,873
Haut Zaire       4,676    4,778    5,051    5,223        5,512    5,704    5,846    6,000
Kivu             2,578    2,718    3,080    3,332        2,128    2,526    2,716    2,938
Kasai Occ.         870       934    1,077    1,171         926    1,067    1,147    1,223
Kasai Or.          832    1,042    1,178    1,336        1,493    1,909    2,005    2,194
Shaba           12,716   13,298   14,509   15,393        7,782    8,487    8,914    9,453
Total       -   60,806   64,222   71,675   81,384       38,711   43,672   49,884   54,350
Buses                               Motoraycles
1969     1970     1971      1972       1969      1970     1971      1972
Kinshasa           658       884    1,044    1,111       3,321    3,553    3,838   14,008
Bas Zaire          127       138      159       169        582       514      539      546
Bandundu            45        43       46        47        262       279      286      361
Equateur            21        38       42        44        262       294      304      367
Haut Zaire         124       133      140       147        484       526      567      615
Kivu                31        42       44        53        105       147      159      171
Kasai Occ.          40        42       49        53        238       268      286      331
Kasai Or.           33        43       52        63        240       267      297      379
Shaba              582       634      715       804        978    1,082    1,107    1,179
Total            1,661    1,997    2,291    2,491        6,472    6,930    7,383    7,957
Others                                  Totals
1969      1970     1971      1972      1969    1970       1971      1972
Kinshasa           761       835    1,435    1,736      49,828   54,624   65,224   76,484
Bas Zaire          630       643      767       766     10,404   11,060   11,822   12,074
Bandundu            75        77      170       191      2,564    2,703    3,041    3,331
Equateur           298       338      370       384      4,250    4,680    4,949    5,312
Haut Zaire         738       744      770       793     11,534   11,885   12,374   12,778
Kivu               210       252      308       315      5,052    5,685    6,307    6,809
Kasai Occ.          46        48       55        68      2,120    2,359    2,614    2,846
Kasai Or.           59        76      118       125      2,657    3,337    3,650    4,097
Shaba              612       634      721       806     22,670   24,135   25,966   27,635
Total            3,1429    3,647    4,714    5,184    111,079  120,468  135,947  151,366
Source: Institut National de la Statistique, December 1973
January 1975



TABLE 3
REPUBLIC OF ZARE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Oil Consumption, 1959-1972
(liters '000)
Year                             Gasoline                   Diesel Mill/
1959                               230.2                       57.5
1965                               146.3                       46.8
1966                               178.7                       61.8
1967                               171.7                       64.1
1968                               167.5                       72.4
1969                               177.3                       84.5
1970                               197.7                      100.3
1971                               211.7                      113.3
1972                               230.7                      122.2
Average Annual
Growth Rates:
1965-69                           4.9%o                      15.9%
1969-72                           9.2%                       13.1%
1/  one third of total diesel-oil consuxption, estimated as the share
assignable to road vehicles.
Source: Research and Development, January 1971
D6partement de 1'Economie Nationale, 1972
January 1975



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGHWAI PROJECT
Highwa Desig Standards Adopted by the Burweau of Roads
ROADS OF GEN1RAL INT1$EST                              LOCAL ROADS
(routes d'int6r6t g6n6ral)
___________D_ior                   _ther                  (routes d 'interet local)
Mountain-                  Mo,tain- Youttain-
Terrain                  Flat   olling lou           Flat   ollg                Flat  Rolling      ow
Design Speed (kn/h)      80-110  55-80   40-55        60-8o  50-60    35-50      50-60   35-50    25-35
Minimu Horiszctal
Radius of Curvaturt (m)  190-360  90-190  50-90      110-190  75-110  35-75      75-110  35-75    30-35
MaxiMu Grade (%)            4      5-7      7-9         5      5-7      7-9        7      7-9      9-12
Maximm Length of Grade
(a)                      _      600     400         _       -       750                         1000
Width of Pavinnt (a)       6.6    6.6       6.0        6.o    6.0       6.0        6.o    6.0    5.0-6.0          14
Width of Shoulder (a)      2.2    2.2    1.0-1.5    1.5    1.5          1.0   _       _ |
Right-of-Way (a)          35-50   35-50    20-35      35-50   35-50    20-35       30      30        20
Source: Bureau of Roads, June 1974
January 1975



TABLE 5
REPUBIIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Roads
Financing
Arrangement
A. Kinshass (13 experts)
Director General$ Bureau of Roads                         IDA
Adviser, Director Maintenance Division                    UNDP
Adviser /Coordinator Rehabilitation Contracts             UNDP
Adviser (technical), Director Engineering Division        FAC
Adviser (administrative), Director Engineering
Division                                               UNDP
Adviser, Chief Roads Department                           UNDP
Adviser, Chief Bridges Department                         UNDP
Adviser, Chief Planning/Programming Department            UNDP
Adviser, Director Ferry Division                          UNDP
Adviser, Director Budget and Finance Division             FAC
Legal Adviser                                             IDA
Training Adviser                                          IDA
Training Expert                                           IDA
B. Regional Offices (11 experts)
Adviser, Regional Director (7 experts)             1 AGCD, 4 IDA, 2 UNDP
Program Coordinator (4 experts)                    1 AGCD, 3 UNDF
Note: Each expert will be provided for 36 months.
Source: Bureau of Roads, December 1974.
January 1975



Table 6
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGWAY PROJ8CT
Roads to be rehabilitated and maintained
under the Pilot Highway Maintenance Sch _
in Bea Zatre
A. Roads to be rehabilitated
Four mechanized brigades will be Livolved in rehablitating roads,
including regravelling, restoration of drainage and repair of bridge&.
About 1,650 km of roads are scheduled for rehabilitation in the yere
1975-1977. Each brigade has an annual capacity of rehabilitating
125-150 km of roads.
Following roads will be rehabilitated!
Buka - Kwilu-Ngongo - Kiipangu                       118 km
Banza-Ngungu - Maunsi - Soa-Loanika - Malele          102 km
Kunda - Banza Sundi - Ximexu                           85 km
Ngidinga - Kindopolo                                  41 km
Banza-Ngungu - M'Pioka                                94 km
Madiaba - Kimpko   Zasba MPutl - MP se - Kinkosi    196 km
Kilemfu - MPuti - Sona-Bata -  Pela - NSeka            46 km
Sanda - Ndjili                                       105 km
Ngidinga - ImbundL                                    152 km
Kasangulu - Sang& - Sona-Bata                          75 km
Boma - Muanda                                        107 km
Tshikai-Kai-Dunda-Kanzi                               88 ko
Kai-Dunda - Kimalanda                                 33 km
Kimalanda - Mbaku Rose                                40 km
Kimalanda - Lukula                                    58 km
Kinsundi - Kinbuandi - Kirzau-Vuete                   40 km
Kinzau-Vuete - Seke-Banza                              20 km
Gimbi - Seke-Banza                                    30 km
Vaku - Boproma                                        45 km
Vunda - Kai-Pimbi - Sumbi                             120 km
Makungu - Lengi - Kidima                               38 km
Kai-Nyema - Yema                                       20 km
1,653 km
B. Roads to be maintained
Three mechanized brigades will maintain roads in the pilot area. ach
brigade has an annual capacity of maintaining 8D0-1,000 km of roads. In
addition to the road sections which will be rehabilitated under the pilot
scheme following roads will be regularly maintained:
Tshela - Sisi Nzobe - Luali                           82 km
Tshela - Subi - Ndomba                                82 km
Kimbanza - Riv. Lukula - Seke-Banza                   55 km
Tonbo Yanga - Kitadi                                  50 km
Maduda - Kai Mbaku                                    34 km
Sunbi - Kai Mbaku-Kikionge                            49 km
Kimudo - Kinyala                                      8D km
Kangu - Sisi Nzobe                                    63 km
Ndomba - Luozi                                       104 km
Luozi - Sundi-Manba - Sundi Lutete - Mpioka          203 km
Sundi Lutete - Yokolo                                 52 km
Sundi Mamba - Kingoye                                 51 km
Luozi - Malanga                                      120 km
Kintanu - Ngidinga                                     79 km
Kai Pimpi - Kingimbi                                  55 km
Lukuti - Kinganga                                     41 km
Kinganga - Lufu                                       52 km
Lufu - Songololo                                       18 km
Bif. Route Matadi - Domba - Bemba - Kvilu NgonSo    117 km
Songololo - Luvo                                      22 km
Noki - Nzongo                                         44 km
Boenze - Tananu                                           km
r,5S# km
Source: Bureau of Roads, May 1974
January 1975



TABLE 7
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIM  IflWIAY MROJECT
Equipment Requirements for the Pilot Highway Maintenance Scheme
A.  
Units to be Purchac ed             Unit Costs      Total Costs
c.i.f.          c.i.f.
Item                         1975/76   1976X77    1977/78       T           (US S)          (ULs.)
Grader (125 HP)                 3           7          6        16          48,000           768,000
Bulldozer (140 HP)               2          2          2         6          64,000           384,000
Loader (80 HP)                   2          2          2         6          48,000           288,000
Roller (rubber-tirel)            2          2          2         6          34,000           204,000
Roller (vibratory)               7          -          -         7           4,000            28,000
Tipper (8 t)                   24         25          25        74          20,o0o         1,480,000
Truck (7 t)                     3           2         2          7          15,000           105,000
Water Tanker (6,000 1)           4          5          1        10          20,000           200,000
Fuel Tanker (6,000 1)            2          2          1         5          26,000           130,000
Greasing Unit                   1           1          1         3          36,000           108,000
Mobile Workshop                  -          1          1         2          58,000           116,000
Tractor with back-hoe            -         1           -         1          38,000            38,000
Compressor                      1          1           -         2          13,500            27,000
Mini dumper                      6          -          -         6           4,000            24,000
Concrete mixer                   2          1          1         4           1,500             6,000
Excavator                       1           -          -         1          40,000            40,000
Low-bed trailer                  -          1          -         1          25,000            25,000
Passenger car                    -          1         5          6           9,000            54,000
Pick-up (3/4 t)                  9          6          5        20          10,O0O           200,000
Accoaumdation trailer            5          3          3        11          12,000           132,000
Total c.i.f. costs          4,357,000
Handling in Zaire             230.000
Total costs 4aBoo
B. Spare Parts
Total Costs
c.i.f.
1975/76 - 30% of the value of new equipment to be or-
dered during that period to provide for re-
habilitation of existing equipment.                  418,000
1976/77 - 20% of the value of new equipment to be or-
dered during that period for preventive
maintenance of new and existing equipment.           317,000
1977/78 - 10% of the value of new equipment to be or-
dered during that period for preventive
maintenance of new equipment.                        138,000
Total c.i.f. costs            873,000
Handling in Zaire              9700
Total costs            970,000
Source: Bureau of Roads, June 1974.
January 1975



TABLE 8
REPUBLIC OF ZATRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Zatres million-----         ---------- US$ million ----------
Item                           Local   Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total    IDA
I. Technical Assistance
Bureau of Roads
Salaries                   0.L8      0.95      1.43         0.95      1.90      2.85
Allowances                 o.03      0.08      0.11         0.07      0.15       0.22
International travel       0.02      0.07      0.09         0.04      0.15       0.19
Housing                    0.32      0.08      0.40         0.65      0.17       0.82
Medicare                   0.OL      0.01      o.           0.08       0.01      0.09
0.89      1.19      2.08         1.79      237       V.17
Contingencies:
Physical                (.09      0.12      0.21         0.18       0.2L      0.42
Price                   0.15      0.21      0.36         0.31      0.41       0.72
Subtotal I                 . .13     rr2        7           T         T:        3 .1    1.15
II. Pilot Highway.AlMaintenance
Schemse
Maintenance equipment      0.11      2.18      2.29         0.23       L.36      4.59
Spare parts                0.05      o.LL      o.L9         0.10      0.87       0.97
Workshop equipment         0.01      0.10      0.11          0.03      o.zo      0.23
Office equipment           0.01      0.03      o.o4         0.02       0.05      0.07
Buildings                  o.16      0.06      0.22         0.31       0.13      o.LL
Technical assistance       0.12      0.22      0.31         0.24      0.4L       0.68
7F7       3.03      3.L          0.93      rg         79
Contingencies:
Physical                0.05      0.30      0.35         0.09      0.61       0.70
Price                   0.07      o.64      0.71         o.14      1.28       1.42
Subtotal II                Zi:3      3. 97     F75          5         7-9        7       7.9L
III.  Logistic Support System
for Highway Maintenance
Techrical assistance       o'.58     0.99      1.57         1.15      1.98      3.13
Equipment t material       (.1L      0.64      0.78         0.27      1.28       1.55
Buildings                 C0.37      0.16       .53         0.75      0.32       1.07
1.09     T. 79      2.88e.?                            7
Contingencies:
Physical                0.1l      0.18      0.29         0.22      0.36       0.58
Price                   ('.19     0.33      0.52         0.39      o.65       1.04
Subtotal III               1.39      2.30       3      .        6       W9  L YV    4.59
IV.  Road Rehabilitation             1.82      3.08      4.90         3.63       6.17      9.80
Contingencies:
Physical                0.18      0.31      o.L9         0.36      0.62       0.98
Price                   o'.0o     o.68      1.08         0.80      1.35       2.15
Subtotal IV                27h       Tw7       6.7           -79        I7     12.93    8.1L
V. Construction Supervision
Persornel                  c.06      0.31L     o.Lo         0.13      0.67       0.80
Vehicles                   0.02      0.05      0.07         0.03       0.11      0.18
c5M       0. 39     0            0.16      0.78      0.9
Contingencies:
Physical                0.01      0.018     0.05         0.02      0.08       0.10
Price                   (.02      0.08      0.1o         0.04      0.16       0.20
Subtotal V         c        II      i0.1       0            T         T.M                1.02
VI. Studies
Feasibility studies        0.17      0.53      0.70         0.34      1.06       1.40
Detailed engineering       0.07      0.12      0.19         0.15       0.23      0.38
Traffic survey             0.28      o.62      0.90         o.55      1.2        l.80
i5      1 27      1. 79        1.18 0.9
Contingencies:
Physical                (.05      0.12      0.17         0.10      0.2L       0.34
Price                   (.06      o 15      0.21         0.12      0.31       0.13
Subtotal VI                0         1.34      2.17           7       3.09   4 .35    3.09
Total                      6.2L     13.91     20.15        12.49     27.81      40.30   25.93
say 26.0
Note: A physical contiingecy of 10% has been provided for all items.
Proviion for wxpected price imreaose has been made as follos:
-  On technical assistance and cozuultant services for studies and construction
supervision - 10% per anrm;
- On civil works - 16% for 1975, 14% for 1976 and 12% for 1977 and 10% for 1978.
-  On equipment and material - 15% for 1975, 12% for 1976, 10% for 1977 and 1978.
Source:   Mission estimates, December 1974
January 1975



TABLE 9
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Comulative Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year             at End of Quarter
and Quarter                        (US$ million)
IDA
FY 1975
June 30, 1975                         0.80
FY 1976
September 30, 1975                    1.30
December 31, 1975                     2.10
March 31, 1976                        3.50
June 30, 1976                         5.70
FY 1977
September 30, 1976                    8.80
December 31, 1976                    11.80
March 31, 1977                       1470
June 30, 1977                        17.60
FY 1978
September 30, 1977                   20.20
December 31, 1977                    22.30
March 31, 1978                       24.00
June 30, 1978                        25.00
Fl 1979
September 30, 1978                   25.60
December 31, 1978                    26.00
Source:  Mission estimates, December 197i4
January 1975



ANNE 1
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF ZArRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Existing Training Arrangements
for Highway Personnel
A. Government Facilities
Training and educational programs suitable for a variety of
fanctions in the highway administration are being offered in ZaTre.  The
quality of instructors and trainang facilities is, however, often far from
adequate, and funds for training under Government auspices have been un-
sufficient. Educational/training programs and facilities for highway
personnel need to be reviewed, both to improve their quality and to avoid
undesirable duplication or over:Lapping of programs. This will be done
under the present project.  The following programs are those available for
training of highway personnel:
(1)   Institut Sup6rieur de Geometres et Experts Immobiliers (ISGEI)
The ISGEI has been in existance since 1965. The program comprises
five years (one year preparatory and four years advanced training)
for surveyors.
(2)   Ecole de Cadastre
This school, which was created in 1955, has branches in Kinshasa,
Kikwit, Kananga and Kisangani. Two sections are taught:
- section arpentage
(one-year curriculum for training of head "chainmen").
- section g6omAtre
(two-year curriculum for training surveyors)
The second section, taught only in Kinshasa, provides advanced
training for the top graduates from all regions of the first
section.
Recruitment of candidates is mainly from the staff of the Survey
and Land Title Services of the Ministry of Finance.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(3)   Institut National du B&timent et des Travaux Publics (INBTP)
The INBTP has been in existance since 1961. The program
comprises four years in engineering but the degree is not
equivalent to a university degree.
(4)  Institut National du Preparation Professionnelle (INPP)
The INPP was created in 1964 and is not a professional school
or training center in the usual sense. Rather, it is an
institution with the following stated objectives:
-  promote professional training in all sectors (irdustry,
trade, etc.);
-   coordinate training efforts in the public and private
sectors;
-   assist the Ministry of Public Works (Service National
de l'Emploi) in the general field of training; and
-   enhance the value of buman resources in the country.
The INPP updates workers' skills and trains unskilled people in
following fields:
-   General mechanics
-   Electromechanics
-  Auto mechanics
-   Construction
-   General administration
-   Training methodology
(5)   Universite National du ZaTre
The university has a civil-engineering curriculum. The percentage
of civil engineering students among all engineering students is,
however, quite low (about 10%).



ANNEX I
Page 3
(6)   27 vocational schools throughout the country
The programs offered by these schools varies from school to
the next. Training is normally offered in the following
areas:
(i) construction; (ii) general and specialized mechanics;
(iii) electrotechnics.
Most of these schools are quite run down and, in some, the
curriculum exists only on paper.
(7)   21 long-term technical schools
These schools offer a four-year curriculum after six years
primary school and two years preparatory school in the
following fields:
(i) general mechanics; (ii) electrotechnics; (iii) construction.
(8)   10 short-term technical schools
These schools offer a three-year combined formal/on-the-job
curriculum after six years primary school and two years pre-
paratory school in the following fields:
(i) general mechanics; (ii) auto mechanics; (iii) electro-
mechanics; (iv) construction.
(9)   Extension Services
(Centres de Fbrmation Professionnelle pour Adultes)
These centers, still limited in number, have been created by the
Ministry of Education. Their function is to train adults in a
relative short period comprising: (i) three months preparation;
(ii) four to six months formal training; (iii) on-the-job training
in the general fields of construction and mechanics.
B. Training Under Bilateral and International Aid Programs
(1)   Ecole des Agents Voyers (EAV)
This school was created in 1970 and is being operated with
financial and technical assistance provided by the Federal
Republic of Germany. Its sole function is to train road
construction and maintenance technicians (inspector of works)
and road foremen.  This school operates very successfully.



ANNEX 1
Page 
(2)   Training arrangements under the Second Highway Project
(i)  USAID financed training of road equipment operators
and mechanics, road foremen and storekeepers com-
prising both formal and extensive on-the-job
training which is carried out by the Swiss
consultants ORT. This program terminates
in January 1975; no extension is planned. About
800 Zalrans have been trained. The program was
a success.
(ii) IDA/UNDP-financed training of Bureau of Roads
managers, Bureau of Roads administrative personnel,
Bureau of Roads inspection and secretarial staff.
This training was carried out by four experts of
the AIZR team of technical experts in the Bureau.
(iii) FAC-financed training of laboratory personnel.
This is being successfully implemented.
January 1975



ANNEX 2
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to the Bureau of Roads
Draft Terms of Reference
Objective
The purpose of technicaL assistance to the Bureau of Roads is to
improve its operation and to develop local expertise in hi,ghway administration
through counterpart advising and training programs.
Scope of Technical Assistance
Twenty-four experts wil:L be employed for a period of 36 months
each. One expert will be in executive function, eighteen will be advisers
to local key personnel and five will be program coordinators. Job des-
criptions for the different members of the team and the qualifications
required are given below.
Individual Job Descriptions
1.   Director General, Bureau of Roads (1)
Daties
Will be general manager of the Bureau of Roads with duties and rights
as established in the statutes of the Bureau. Will report to the Minister of
Public Works.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minimum 15 years experience in the administration
of highways and demonstrated management capability.    A  minimum of 5 years
relevant experience in developing countries is desirable.
2.  Adviser, Director Maintenance Division (1)
Duties
Will advise the Director of the Maintenance Division on matters re-
lating to the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads and roadway structures.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minimum of 10 years experience in the admini-
stration, including planning, programming and budgeting and execution of
highway maintenance. A minimum of 5 years relevant experience in developing
countries is desirable.
3.  Adviser|Coordinator Rehabilitation Contracts (1)
Duties
Will advise and assist the coordinator for rehabilitation contracts
in preparation of contract documents, tendering and supervision of road and
bridge rehabilitation and maintenance operations.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with broad experience in highway and bridge mainte-
nance and a minimum experience in developing countries of 5 years.
4.  Adviser (technical), Director Engineering Division (1)
Duties
Will advise the Director of the Engineering Division on all matters
relating to highway technology. Will assist in supervision and coordination
of construction.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minimum 10 years experience in highway design
and construction. Mtinimum of 5 years experience in developing countries is
desirable.
5. Adviser (administrative)1 Director Engineering Division (1)
Duties
Will advise and assist the Director of the Engineering Division in
the administration of consultant and construction contracts and coordinate
with the Budget and Finance Division on matters relevant to such contracts.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with broad experience in the administration of
contracts, minimum of 5 years experience in developing countries desirable.
6.   Adviser, Chief Roads Department (1)
Duties
Will advise the Chief of the Roads Department on design, tendering
and execution of highway construction.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minimum 10 years experience in highway engineering,
including design, preparation of contract documents, tendering and construction
supervision. Minimum of 5 years experience in developing countries is desirable.
7.   Adviser, Chief Bridge Department (1)
Duties
Will advise the Chief of the Bridge Department on design, tendering
and execution of bridge construction.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minimum 10 years experience in structural engi-
neering, including design, preparation of contract documents, tendering and
construction supervision. Minimum of 5 years experience in developing countries
is desirable.
8.   Adviser, Chief Planning and Programming Department (1)
Duties
Will advise and assist the Chief of the Planning and Programming
Department in the formulation of a highway development plan and investment pro-
grams and in the implementation of other studies related to highway transport.
Will advise and assist in supervision of feasibility studies.
Qualifications
Transport economist with a minimum of 7 years relevant experience with
emphasis on developing countries.
9.   Adviser, Director Ferry Division (1)
Duties
Will advise the r.rector of the Ferry Division in operation and
maintenance of ferries. Will assist in procurement of ferries and spare parts.
Will also assist in preparing the annual operational programs of the division
and monitor their implementation.
Qualifications
Mechanical engineer with a minixmum of 7 years experience in ferry
operations.
10. Adviser, Director Budget and Finance Division(1)
Duties
Will advise and assist the Director of the Budget and Finance Division
in coordinating and controlling accounting procedures established in the statutes



ANNE 2
Page 4
of the Bureau of Roads. Will assist in the preparation of annual budget drafts
and monitor the execution of such budgets. Will further assist in formulating
financial plans for highway development programs.
Qualifications
Public finance expert with broad experience in budget control and
financial administration of government services.
11. Legal Adviser (1)
Duties
Will assist and advise in legal matters arising in any division of
the Bureau of Roads. Will assist in particular in formulation of contract
documents, interpretation of claims and advise on disputes with contractors.
Qualifications
Lawyer with minimum 7 years experience in administrative, civil and
commercial law.
12. Training Adviser (1)
Duties
Will identify training needs in the Bureau of Roads and advise in
training curricula and methodology. Will prepare and coordinate training pro-
grams for highway personnel and monitor the implementation of such programs.
Will report to the Director General of the Bureau.
Qualifications
Individual with university degree and a broad experience in training
technical personnel, preferably in government services. Should be familiar
with highway technology.
13. Training Expert (1)
Duties
Will coordinate training programs for highway personnel.
Qualifications
Engineer or technician with broad experience in executing professional
training programs.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
114. Adviser, Regional Director (7)
(Mbandaka, Kisangani, Bukavu, Lubumbashi, Kikwit,
Kananga and Mbuji Mayi)
Duties
Will assist and advise the Regional Director on all aspects of high-
way administration in the regions, including planning, programming, budgeting
and execution of road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance. Will
further assist and advise in tendering for different types of road work. Will
advise on training and refresher courses for regional highway personnel.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minlimum 10 years experience in highway admini-
stration. Conversant with modern planning and budgeting techniques and
preferably training experience. A minimum of 5 years highway experience in
developing countries is desirable.
15. Program Coordinator (4)
(Kikwit, Isiro, Lubumbashi, Lisala)
Duties
Responsible vis-A-vis the Regional Director for coordinating
execution and supervision of road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
in the region. Assures technical, administrative and budgetary control of all
road contracts and force account work in region.
Qualifications
Civil engineer with minimum 10 years experience in supervision of
road construction and preferably maintenance. Should have a minimum 5 years
experience in road construction and maintenance supervision in developing
countries.
January 1975



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
BUREAU OF ROADS
Organization Scheme
Proposed:
A     Operational technical assistance personnel
*     Pilot highway maintenance scheme personnel
X Techn. Inspect. & Finance Audit    rt~                                                                     Logistic support system personnel
-L~~O GENERAL^,
| ~~~Training *2}
Public Relations                                                |-  w Secretariat
|   Transport Division      ,                              | DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL                               International
Legal Department
ENGINEERING    MAINTENANCE             FERRY               Admini-               Budet&:
DIVISION            DIVISION            DIVISION             stration
Traffic Count.       Planning             Ferry                                                            .
Ec./TechnStudie      & Control of         Operations                                                        C
Tendering      ~Road and                                                                                                           National
Condtruciong         Bridge Main-        Ferry                                                              0 EEEEISUuEiEUEmumloll    Pblic Works
onstrutiong         itenance             Maintenance                                                                                   Laboratory
Supervision:
A*2                                                                                                 I Logistic S upport I
-------------- -                                                                              System
Ifor_Equipment 
Regional Offices
Regions        BAS ZAIRE          BANDUNDU             EQUATEUR            HAUT ZAIRE              KIVU               SHABA              KASAIOR.            KASAI CC.
OFfieslaaddii                                           Mbandaka             Kisangani             Bukavu            Lubumbashi
Offi ces         Ma tad i             K i kwit            Lisala              isagn                 Kindu              Kamina             Mbuji Mayi            Kananga
Lisala  lsiro             Kindu            ~~~~~Kalemie
Bases             3                                        1 t                 10                    7                  9                     3                   3
g (4)      ,A (2)                                A (2)                A (21                A (1                  (21               A (1)                A (t)
World Bank-9008(3R)






O "'   Vi   '     '   ;   . ;
t~~~~~~~~~~                   -                      Z)        ;__J                 C) 
| x      :          m          - 0 |    ^              f  >'          0        f    i           A                         r 
0M & 0 i~-Ab-                    -            -     4!w S:0
0~~~~~~~ I4  <' C  g  -W                                                        ~>tt
., - j ; , g ~~[                                                                               i          '         C  i   ., , .^ y.l y          F
if                                        -*                        - >0rz A 
_ |< X< <t X;I'                                                                                          L              aV          






IBRD 11226
41                                 ?
CENIRAL               AF RICAN  REPUBLIC
RERMIC OF ZAIR                                                                                                                                     5 VDA N
lUEAU OF ROADS
AbMINISTRATIV DIVISIONS
M.Umbo
D.H.
A,   FIE&OFNCES                                                                                                                                   sim           0DW.
A6
0    SASt 4EADQUARTERS                                                                          B-b.
---aA4t SOUND
ARiES'
TIATtONAL CAPITAL
T,         14C.101NAL CAPITALS                                                                                    li-b.th..                                               K.-d
WJVERS                                                                                                            I   / 1, -"" ""' T  z  A/ R F                        PA
INTERNATPDNAL AOV NDARIES                                                                                                 "u-
ISANGANI
m-P.-             Y.?
DAKA                                                                                                   I,4.i
Y.I.
Kolo.b.
l-,4-'/lGANDA
M-do.b.*
A B   N                                                         w)
RWANDA
u
oke Al- - Ndl,,;b-b
-j                                                                                                                          BUKAV,
0
KINDU
EJ
K-tA-k-e
U0,
P.!
SGnA... R,
-4-                      'k,
<           K,                                                                                                                                                  4-
lqs AS
J,            D,h.k
K.1-d.4                     m.p-g                                 0
A KIKWI                                                                                                  ZAMA
Ki.l.
c
-)K,k-g.
-C   KANAN
k-                                     G
I            Nio,b 5\10
7                                                                     OM UJI-MAYI                                       A
A    K.t..d.                                 Koleie
Atla                                                                                                                                          f'
on "ic
0           1 Z? A
K.h-b.
N 113 ER                .,r
CHAD
Kamin
SUDAN                                                                                       A
AN C70LA
Ki..,,   oko M.,
t   R REP.
QUAT                                                                                                          K..ji
rully                                                                                                           a                                                   Z:A  M  Bi A
E P U B L I C
OF         TFWANDM<
A I R E                                                                                                                        K,fi.
(TANZANIA
Allo-70c                                                                                                                                             ALUBU
9 CIO       soc,
Ocea                                                                    MILES
AN LA
13     rob     2w      306     400     Soo
ZaMBI                                 I               I   -  I                       -       LZ L    ' BIA
i    4F M



