CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 536 ZR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 19, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 536 ZR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 19, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 19, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this AgreemLnt, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Department" means the Department responsible for public works of
the Borrower, and
(b)   "Bureau" means the Office des Routes established under Ordonnance -
Loi No. 7 1-023 of the Borrower dated March 26, 1971 as modified by
Ordonnance - Loi No. 72-016 dated February 21. 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty six million dollars ($26,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
is


﻿4
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such later
date as may be established by notice to the Borrower by the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1985, and ending October 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Bureau
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with approp,iate administrative,
financial, engineering and highway practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts
A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ technical assistants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, and shall appoint qualified and experienced persons
as counterparts to said experts.


﻿5
(b)   In order to asssist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts DI and
D3, E, F and G of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants acceptable
to the Association under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the works included in Part D2 of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shal, -therwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out the rehabilitation of the road
included in Part D of the Project in accordance with the design standards used
by the consultants in their preparation of the detailed engineering for said road
rehabilitation.


﻿6
Section 3.07. The Association and the Borrower shall review the progress
of Part C of the Project in January 1977 and shall exchange views on the role
of the technical assistants being employed in the carrying out of such part of
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the Department, the Bureau and any other department or agency of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that the Bureau be administered
at all times by competent and experienced managers and personnel in adequate
numbers and with adequate supporting facilities, services and resources.
Section 4.03. (a) On the basis of the results of the survey comprising Part
G of the Project, and after consultation with agricultural organizations and other
principal road users, the Borrower shall review and revise as necessary its highway
investment and maintenance programs.
(b)   The Borrower shall organize a road traffic survey unit within the
Bureau and cause said unit continuously to monitor the development of road traffic
on the national highway network in accordance with appropriate statistical methods
and procedures, collecting and recording such information as shall be required for
periodic reviews to determine required modifications of the highway investment
and maintenance programs of the Borrower.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain the roads included in the
interim highway maintenance plan referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement in accordance with sound engineering practices.
(b)   The comprehensive highway maintenance plan to be formulated by
the Bureau pursuant to Section 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement between
the Borrower and the Association dated March 23, 1972 shall be completed by
March 31, 1978.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all action necessary to ensure that
the limits imposed by its laws on the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using


﻿7
the national highway system are consistent with the structural and geometric design
standards of the highways and that said limits are duly observed.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the financing of the sixteen technical assistants' positions in the Bureau not
to be financed under this Agreement;
(b)   A plan of implementation (including a time schedule) acceptable to
the Association for the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project has been
submitted to the Association;
(c)   The arrangements for the staffing of the technical assistants' positions
to be provided under the Project have been found satisfactory to the Association;
and
(d)   The Borrower has submitted to the Association an interim     plan
satisfactory to the Association for highway maintenance, to be followed until the
completion of the comprehensive plan referred to in Section 4.04(b) of this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date June 30, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Commissaire d'Etat responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿8
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
D6partement des Finances
Boite Postale No. 10
Kinshasa Gonbe
Republic of Zaire
Cable address:                               Telex:
DENFIN                                       298
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
18 18 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                               felex:
INDEVAS                                      440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                             24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives therevnto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
By /s/ Mbeka Makosso
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s / Hans Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Equipment, vehicles,            7,000,000          100% of foreign
tools and spare                                   expenditures or,
parts - parts B and                               if locally pro-
C of the Project                                  cured, of expendi-
tures for ex-factory
prices
(2)   Civil works
(a)   building                   500,000          30% of total
construction                                expenditures
and improvement -
parts B and C of
the Project
(b)   road rehabilita-         6,200,000          63% of total
tion - part D of                            expenditures
the Project
(3)  Technical assistance -          3,400,000          100% of foreign
parts A, B and C of                               expenditures
the Project
(4)   Consultants'                   3,300,000          100% of foreign
Services - parts D,                               expenditures
E, F and G of the
Project
(5)   Unallocated                    5,600,000
TOTAL        26,000,000


﻿10
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (3) and (4) on accouJnt
of expenditures incurred before such date but after March 1, 1974 in an aggregate
amoun. not exceeding the equivalent of $700,000.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation  of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financwog out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to strengthen the Borrower's Bureau of Roads, to
continue development of local expertise in highway administration and
maintenance, and to provide for the rehabilitation of a key road. It consists of
the following parts:
A.    Utilization in the operation of the Bureau of the technical assistance
of twenty four experts;
B.    (1)   Establishment of a pilot highway-maintenance scheme in the
Region of Bas Zaire utilizing technical assistance and including
the procuiement of equipment, spare parts and improved
workshop facilities and the maintenance on force account of
about 3,200 km or roads of general interest in Bas Zaire;
(2)   Establishment of a similar scheme in another Region by January
1977 and the implementation thereof beginning in 1977;
C.    Establishment of a system of logistic support for highway maintenance,
utilizing technical assistance in the operation of workshops and in
training of personnel and including the procurement of equipment,
tools and improved workshop facilities;
D.    Rehabilitation of the Kabinda-Kindu Road, including:
1.   the detailed engineering therefor;
2.   the civil works; and
3.   the supervision of the works;
E.    Revision of the feasibility study for the Kikwit-Kananga Road;
F     Carrying out a feasibility study for the Mbuji Mayi-Lubutu Road; and
G.    Conducting a country-wide ro,J traffic survey.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs A.3 and 4 hereof, contracts shall be let
under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the works included in Part D.2 of the Project shall be prequalified
as described in part 2.2 of the Guidelines, and the procedure set forth in part
2.1 of the Guidelines for advertising large and important contracts shall be followed.
3.    Invitations to  bid  and  advertisements relating  to  contracts for the
construction of workshops, stores, and office buildings need not be transmitted
to representatives of foreign countries.
4.    Any contract for the purchase of goods estimated at a value of less than
$50,000 may be procured without regard to the Guidelines.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Zaire may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any, preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿13
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zaire if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Zaire equal to at least 20% of"the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Zaire.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Cvil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (2)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference of up to 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference


﻿14
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, an amount calculated by
applying to the amount of each bid the percentage of the preference shall be added
to each bid received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference tinder Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment, vehicles and tools
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further


﻿15
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospectivp bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
infonnation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


