                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2768




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (TF-91191)

                                           ON A

                                          GRANT

                                     IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                      (US$6.0 MILLION)

                                          TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

                                         FOR THE

            RENEWABLE ENERGY MARKET TRANSFORMATION PROJECT


                                      MARCH 27, 2014




Energy Practice 1
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCS1
Africa Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective 2013)

                                 Currency Unit = ZAR
                                  1.00ZAR = US$0.10
                                 US$1.00 = 9.87ZAR

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                      2013–2014

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEE         Black Economic Empowerment
CEF Group   Central Energy Fund Group
CO2         carbon dioxide
CSP         Concentrating Solar Power
CSWH        Commercial Solar Water Heating
DANIDA      Danish International Development Agency
DBSA        Development Bank of Southern Africa
DFI         Development Finance Institution
            DME Department of Minerals and Energy (part of which was later renamed DoE)
DoE         Department of Energy
DSM         demand-side management
DTI         Department of Trade and Industry
ESMAP       Energy Sector Management Assisted Program
FMU         Financial Management Unit
G5          Group of Five
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GEO         Global Environmental Objective
GHG         greenhouse gas
GWh         gigawatt-hour
HP          high pressure
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDC         Industrial Development Corporation
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
IPP         Independent Power Producer
IRP         Integrated Resource Plan
IRR         internal rate of return
ISMO        independent system and market operator
ISR         Implementation Status Report
ISU         Implementation Support Unit
kg          kilogram
kWh         kilowatt-hour
LP SWH      Low-pressure Solar Water Heating
MG          Matching Grants

                                           ii
MTR       Mid-Term Review
MW        megawatt
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NERSA     National Energy Regulator of South Africa
NSWHF     National Solar Water Heating Framework
NT        National Treasury
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PG        Performance Grants
PPA       Power Purchase Agreement
PPP       Public Private Partnership
PSC       Project Steering Committee
RE        renewable energy
REFIT     Renewable Energy Feed-In Tariff
RE IPP    renewable energy independent power producer
REIPPPP   Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Program
REMT      Renewable Energy Market Transformation
REPG      renewable energy power generation
REWP      Renewable Energy White Paper
SABS      South African Bureau of Standards
SASTELA   Southern African Solar Thermal and Electricity Association
SWH       Solar Water Heating
TA        technical assistance
ToRs      Terms of Reference
USD       United States dollar
ZAR       South African rand




                           Vice President:   Mahktar Diop
                        Country Director:    Asad Alam
                          Sector Manager:    Lucio Monari
                     Project Team Leader:    Karan Capoor
                        ICR Lead Author:     Moeketsi Enos Thobela

                                         iii
 
                                                           SOUTH AFRICA

                                                                CONTENTS




DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Profile
1.     Project Context and Design .............................................................................................................1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................................4
3.     Assessment of Outcomes...............................................................................................................13
4.     Assessment of Risk to the GEO ....................................................................................................18
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................................20
6.     Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................................25
7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...............................27
Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing ..................................................................................................28
Annex 2: Outputs and Outcomes by Component ..................................................................................29
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analyses .........................................................................................36
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .....................................40
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .............................................41
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents ...............................................................................................44
Annex 7: MAP.......................................................................................................................................45




                                                                       iv
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Renewable Energy Market
Country:                South Africa              Project Name:
                                                                             Transformation
Project ID:             P073322                   L/C/TF Number(s):          TF-91191
ICR Date:               01/16/2014                ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                                                                             REPUBLIC OF SOUTH
Lending Instrument:     TA                        Borrower:
                                                                             AFRICA
Original Total
                        USD 6.00M                 Disbursed Amount:          USD 4.65M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 6.00M
Environmental Category: N/A                       Global Focal Area: Climate Change
Implementing Agencies:
Development Bank of Southern Africa
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Government of South Africa

B. Key Dates
                                                                                      Revised/Actual
      Process              Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept Review:         06/14/2004     Effectiveness:                                   09/26/2008
                                                                                        12/14/2009
Appraisal:              08/30/2005     Restructuring(s):                                09/26/2011
                                                                                        12/12/2012
Approval:               06/28/2007     Mid-term Review:            06/30/2011           05/23/2011
                                                                                        12/31/2012
                                       Closing:                    09/30/2011
                                                                                        09/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome:               Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
           Bank                  Ratings                   Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Moderately Satisfactory Government:                    Highly Satisfactory
                                                   Implementing
Quality of Supervision:         Satisfactory                                    Moderately Satisfactory
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                               Satisfactory                                          Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:


                                                  v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance (IP) Indicators
     Implementation                              QAG Assessments (if
                                Indicators                                                 Rating
      Performance                                         any)
 Potential problem project at
                              No                      Quality at Entry:          N/A
any time
Problem project at any time Yes                       Quality of Supervision: N/A
 Project Development
Objective (PDO)/Global
                            Satisfactory
environmental objective
(GEO) rating before closing

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           48                     48
General finance sector                                                       3                      3
Other renewable energy                                                      49                     49


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                              33                     33
Environmental policies and institutions                                     33                     33
Micro, small, and medium enterprise support                                 17                     17
Regulation and competition policy                                           17                     17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                   At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Asad Alam                               Ritva S. Reinikka
Sector Manager:              Lucio Monari                            S. Vijay Iyer
Project Team Leader:         Karan Capoor                            Xiaodong Wang
ICR Team Leader:             Karan Capoor
ICR Primary Author:          Moeketsi Enos Thobela




                                                     vi
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO was to establish policy and regulatory frameworks and build institutional capacity
for renewable energy (RE) development in South Africa. In line with Global Environment
Facility Operational Program 6, the global environmental objective is to remove the barriers to, and
reduce the implementation costs of, RE technologies to help mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.
The specific priority is CC-3 power sector regulatory frameworks and policies for grid-based RE.

PDO/GEO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                 Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised Target
                                                   approval                              Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                 documents)                               Target Years
                Support the government and the electricity regulator to develop a legal, policy, and
Indicator 1:
                regulatory framework for grid-based renewable energy.
                                             Policy and
Value                                                                                Policy and regulatory
                No frameworks in place       regulatory
                                                                                     frameworks effective
                                             frameworks effective
Date achieved   06/30/2007                   09/30/2009                              09/30/2011
                Target achieved. Indicator was amended to include implementation support for renewable
                energy (RE) frameworks being developed.

                The National Energy Act of 2008 set the stage for approval by the regulator of the
                Renewable Energy Feed-In Tariff (REFIT) framework in 2009 , which included a draft
Comments        standardized power purchase agreement, for which the REMT Project supported a review
                by a specialist law firm and comments by project developers. The power planning process
                was revamped based on key inputs from REMT and was finalized in March 2011 with
                large allocations for RE. Regulations for the procurement of RE were announced in May
                2011, setting the stage for large-scale implementation of the government’s flagship
                Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Program (REIPPPP)
                announced in August 2011.
Indicator 2:    Develop and make a renewable energy resource database available.
                                               RE resource
                                                                                    RE resource database
Value           No information on solar,       database developed
                                                                                    made available to
                biomass, hydro available       and available to
                                                                                    private developers
                                               private developers
Date achieved   06/30/2007                     09/30/2010                           11/30/2010
                Target achieved. The REMT Web site made available maps with high-level information
Comments        on solar, wind, and biomass resources. In addition, the REMT Web site provided a link to
                the wind resource database that was developed by the South African Wind Energy
                Program, a Department of Energy–United Nations Development Programme project.
                Assist 10–14 potential RE power generation developers, and prepare 4–6 pre-feasibility
Indicator 3:
                studies through REMT’s Matching Grants (MG) program.
                                               10–14 firms assisted                 14 firms and 33 pre-
Value           Very few RE projects by
                                               and 4–6 pre-                         feasibility/pre-
                private developers
                                               feasibility studies                  investment studies


                                                  vii
                                              conducted                              supported
Date achieved   06/30/2007                    09/30/2011                             09/30/2013
                Target achieved. This indicator was amended in 2009 to include support for pre-
                investment studies for eligible project developers. Support from the REMT’s Matching
                Grant (MG) program was provided to 14 beneficiaries to develop projects with a
                combined generation capacity of 275 MW. MGs sometimes supported multiple pre-
                investment studies for projects and sometimes supported more than one project being
                developed by an applicant firm. REMT support contributed to at least 5 of these projects
                with a generation capacity of 85 MW being selected as preferred bidders and accepted for
Comments        implementation under the first round of the government’s flagship Renewable Energy
                Independent Power Producer Procurement Program (REIPPPP. As of December 2013, 1
                of these projects had been commissioned, while the remaining 4 had achieved financial
                close and were in an advanced stage of construction.

                Another 6 REMT-supported projects with a generation capacity of 190 MW have been
                notified that they have met the requirements of the oversubscribed third round of
                independent power producer procurement, and are on the reserve list as the government
                considers increasing the financial allocation for the round.
                Increased knowledge about renewable energy in relevant official agencies and private-
Indicator 4:
                sector financial institutions.
Value                                          Training, workshops                   Training, workshops
                Lack of RE experience
                                               conducted                             conducted
Date achieved   06/30/2007                     09/30/2011                            09/30/2013
                Target achieved. The government has supported the establishment of a strong RE market
                with well-established knowledge, experience, and capacity among public- and private-
                sector institutions.

Comments        In addition to the conferences, training and workshops supported by the REMT Project,
                the promotion of legal, policy, and regulatory frameworks, developed by the government
                with support from the project and other development partners, added knowledge and
                capacity among the relevant official agencies and private-sector financial institutions, as
                well as hundreds of global and local project developers, suppliers, commercial banks, and
                development finance institutions.
Indicator 5:    Formulate industry standards and codes for solar water heating (SWH).
Value                                         Standards and codes                     Standards and codes
                Limited standards in place
                                              adopted                                 adopted
Date achieved   06/30/2007                    09/30/2011                              09/30/2013
                Target achieved. The project focused on SWH promotion, implementation, and training as
                appraised, and also provided limited support testing of SWH systems through a
                performance grant.

                Industry standards and codes for SWH had already been developed by the South African
Comments        Bureau of Standards by 2009. These included SANS 1307:2009 (“Domestic solar water
                heaters”), SANS 10106 (“The installation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of
                domestic solar water heating systems,” 3rd edition), SANS 6210 (“Mechanical
                qualification tests”), and SANS 6211 (“Thermal performance of solar water heaters”).
                The project supported the government to develop a training program to accredit SWH
                installers. The certification program, implemented through accredited vocational training
                institutions, includes the plumbing elective course Unit Standard ID 244499 and core


                                                  viii
                course Unit Standard ID 262784. Installers are expected to possess a Further Education
                Training (FET) Certificate in Plumbing at National Qualification Framework (NQF) Level
                4 (Qualification ID 58782).
Indicator 6:    Install 200 commercial solar water heating (CSWH) systems.
                                                                                       > 312,350 residential
Value
                40 systems in place           200 systems installed                    SWH systems
                                                                                       installed
Date achieved   06/30/2007                    09/30/2011                               09/30/2013
                Target exceeded. As a technical assistance facility, the project did not directly finance the
                installation of SWH systems, except by providing early limited grant support to develop,
                demonstrate and document an innovative design for speedy SWH installation, resulting in
                several hundred SWH installations annually.

                The 2009 project restructuring redefined and expanded CSWH to include support for
Comments        implementation of all SWH, recognizing the need for urgent scale-up of demand-side
                management measures. The target values of indicators were not changed during
                restructuring.

                Supported by the government and financed through the energy rebate from the regulator
                and utilizing carbon finance incentives, the SWH program was implemented aggressively
                by Eskom, the state-owned utility, resulting in 156,000 installations by September 2011
                and more than 312,000 installations by September 2013.
Indicator 7:    Avoid power generation (gigawatt-hours [GWh]).
Value                                                                                 At least 422 GWh
                15 GWh avoided                85 GWh avoided
                                                                                      avoided
Date achieved   06/30/2007                    06/30/2012                              09/30/2013
                Target exceeded. See comments for Indicator 6, above.

                Avoided power generation is computed based on data from installation of 214,444 low-
Comments        pressure (LP) and 67,906 high-pressure (HP) systems by Eskom by September 2013. It
                assumes an average savings of 1,250 kilowatt-hours (kWh)/year and 2,050 kWh/year for
                LP and HP systems, respectively. Eskom’s implementation of more than 30,000
                government-funded residential SWH installations is excluded from this computation,
                which is deemed conservative.
Indicator 8:    Invest in SWH systems.
Value
                $1.8 million invested         $9.0 million invested                   $148 million invested
Date achieved   06/30/2007                09/30/2012                                  09/30/2013
                Target exceeded. See comments for Indicator 6, above.
Comments
                Eskom’s implementation of more than 30,000 government-funded SWH installations is
(including %
                excluded from this computation, which is deemed conservative. In addition, the
achievement)
                government allocated ZAR4.7 billion (US$480 million) for SWH installations over a 3-
                year period starting 2012–13.
Indicator 9:    Avoid carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions (cumulative) with SWH.
                                              0.75 million tons                   0.75 million tons CO2
Value
                Negligible                    CO2 avoided                         avoided (est.
                                              (cumulative)                        cumulative)
Date achieved   06/30/2007                    09/30/2012                          09/30/2013

                                                    ix
               Target achieved. See comments for Indicator 6, above. The cumulative CO2- avoided
               target appears to have been overstated at appraisal.

               Cumulative emissions avoided is computed from the result for power generation avoided
Comments
               (Indicator 7, above) and the emission factor of 1.07 kilograms (kg)/kWh from the Project
(including %
               Appraisal Document (PAD) at annualized CO2 emissions avoided of 0.44 million tons as
achievement)
               of September 2013, and estimated cumulative emissions avoided of more than 0.75
               million tons. Additional CO2 emissions avoided can be expected through ongoing
               implementation of the national SWH roll-out program, as well as the REPG projects under
               the REIPPPP.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)

        Date ISR                                                                Actual Disbursements
 No.                            GEO                             IP
        Archived                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     12/13/2007          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     06/02/2008          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/16/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory             0.00
  4     12/24/2008      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
  5     06/24/2009      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              0.26
  6     12/15/2009      Moderately Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    0.26
  7     06/22/2010          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              2.53
  8     03/28/2011          Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              2.53
  9     01/11/2012          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    2.53
 10     11/14/2012          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    4.65
 11     06/08/2013          Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                    4.65




                                                  x
H. Restructuring
                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                 Board-   Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                Restructuring
    Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
               PDO Change DO       IP        (in
                                        US$ millions)
                                                        Extension of closing date to
  12/12/2012                 S      S
                                                        September 30, 2013
                                                        Extension of closing date to
                                                        December 31, 2012; re-
                                                        allocation to reflect rapidly
                                                        changing market priorities,
  09/26/2011                 S     MS                   including additional resources
                                                        for implementation of MGs and
                                                        additional resources to provide
                                                        real-time policy support to the
                                                        Department of Energy.
                                                        Addition of new category to
                                                        cover operational costs for the
                                                        Implementation Support Unit;
                                                        expand definition of support to
                                                        the Department of Minerals and
                                                        Energy and the National Energy
                                                        Regulator of South Africa to
                                                        develop “and implement” a
                                                        legal, policy, and regulatory
                                                        framework for RE; replace
                                                        CSWH with SWH to include
  12/14/2009                MS     MS
                                                        residential, commercial, and
                                                        industrial installations; re-
                                                        allocate additional resources to
                                                        the MG component and expand
                                                        eligibility beyond private-
                                                        sector beneficiaries; facilitate
                                                        investment and support for pre-
                                                        feasibility studies to include
                                                        “pre-investment activities”;
                                                        increase allocation for training
                                                        and workshops.




                                        xi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xii
1.   Project Context and Design

  1.1 Context and Appraisal

1.     South Africa’s economic performance from 1994 to 2004 was impressive. The average
annual growth rate in gross domestic product was 3 percent during this period, before reaching 4.9
percent and 4.6 percent in 2005 and 2006, respectively. In 2004, South Africa had a well-developed
power sector, with a total installed capacity of 42 gigawatts (GW) and total electricity production of
244,607 gigawatt-hours (GWh). Power production was predominantly coal-fired (92 percent), and
South Africa has historically had high levels of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The generation
and transmission of power were concentrated in Eskom, the vertically integrated state-owned utility,
which was also the largest single distributor in terms of energy sales for final consumption and
number of customers. From around 2006, the country started to experience power supply shortages,
with potentially serious consequences for the economy. In response, Eskom was planning to build
1,500 megawatts (MW) of generation capacity per year over five years.

2.      In early 2000, the Minister of Minerals and Energy had requested the Bank’s
assistance on utilization of renewable energy (RE) resources and stimulation of productive
uses of electricity in rural areas. In response, the Bank took on a number of discrete activities,
including helping to draft the Renewable Energy White Paper (REWP), which was approved in
2003. A key element of the REWP was a target of 10,000 GWh of final energy consumption from
renewable sources in 2013, which was expected to account for about 4 percent of the estimated
overall electricity demand. The Renewable Energy Market Transformation (REMT) Project, to be
supported through a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF), was aimed at supporting
the government to jump-start the implementation of the REWP goals.

3.      Despite South Africa’s strong industrial and financial sectors, the country faced
significant barriers to RE development. The long period of isolation due to the country’s racial
segregation policies (or apartheid) and historical reliance on cheap coal-fired power generation
made it difficult to develop the RE sector without targeted assistance. Barriers to renewable energy
power generation (REPG) included average tariff levels well below the long-run costs of expansion
and of most RE technologies; the lack of an adequate policy and institutional framework for the sale
of power into the main grid; the unfamiliarity of potential project developers with the government’s
approach to promoting RE; as well as inadequate knowledge about RE in government agencies, the
private sector, and financial institutions. The barriers to the strong uptake of solar water heating
(SWH) included the lack of recognized industry best practices, standards, and codes, as well as low
levels of market acceptance. At the time of project appraisal, the government (1) adopted a plan to
develop a Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff (REFIT) Program as the main way to stimulate
investments in RE generation; and (2) was considering a program of SWH installation.

4.     The Bank was well positioned to support the South African government in RE
development. The Bank had a comparative advantage in both providing high-level technical
support, as it demonstrated in finalizing the government’s REWP, and mobilizing a significant
amount of carbon funds and other private resources for RE development. Further to the South
African Department of Minerals and Energy’s (DME’s) request for the Bank’s assistance envisaged



                                                  1
that the Bank involvement would (1) introduce international best practices and cutting-edge
knowledge of RE development, in particular RE policy frameworks; (2) link the REMT Project to
the Bank’s overall power sector and climate change policy dialogues in South Africa; (3) build
local capacities; and (4) leverage public-private financing instruments, such as carbon credit
financing. The project was consistent with the 2007 Country Partnership Strategy, which focused
on “fostering social and environmental sustainability,” and with the Bank’s mandate from the 2005
Gleneagles G8 summit to undertake a Climate Change Initiative in Group of Five (G5) countries,
including South Africa.

  1.2 Original PDO/GEO and Key Indicators (as approved)

5.       The REMT’s Project Development Objective (PDO) was to establish policy and
regulatory frameworks and build institutional capacity for RE development in South Africa.
The technical assistance (TA) facility, along with existing support from the Danish International
Development Agency, was expected to help South Africa to put into place a structure to support RE
development by focusing on new policy and regulatory frameworks, as well as improve the
institutional capacity of the DME and various stakeholders, including the private sector. In line with
GEF Operational Program No. 6, the project’s global environmental objective (GEO) was intended
to remove the barriers to RE technologies to help mitigate GHG emissions. The specific strategic
priority under GEF Climate Change Priority No. 4 was to promote on-grid electricity from
renewable sources. The principal outcomes of the project were expected to be establishment of (1)
the policy and regulatory frameworks and institutional capacity required to meet the government’s
RE target, and (2) an SWH industry.

6.     The REMT Project’s output indicators, grouped according to the project component
to which they related, were as follows:
Renewable Energy Power Generation (REPG) component:
       -       Indicator 1: Legal, policy, and regulatory frameworks for grid-based RE power
       prepared by the government and electricity regulator
       -       Indicator 2: Database for RE resource made available
       -       Indicator 3: Number of potential RE power project developers assisted and number
       of pre-feasibility studies prepared
       -       Indicator 4: Knowledge about RE increased in relevant government agencies, private
       sector, and financial institutions

Commercial Solar Water Heating (CSWH) component:
     -       Indicator 5: Industry standards and codes formulated
     -       Indicator 6: Number of commercial solar water heaters installed
     -       Indicator 7: Fossil fuel-based power generation avoided
     -       Indicator 8: Investments in CSWH systems
     -       Indicator 9: Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions avoided (cumulative)

7.     The PDO/GEO was not revised.

8.     The definition of some key indicators was amended, as information about the country’s
energy demand-supply balance and the emergence of severe power and coal shortages called for an



                                                  2
urgent need to implement both supply-side investments in generation as well as energy efficiency
and demand-side management (DSM) measures to address base-load and peak-load management.
Indicator 1 (above) was amended through a 2009 project restructuring that included support for
implementation of the legal, policy and regulatory frameworks developed. At the same time,
Indicators 6–9 were amended to include all SWH to reflect the urgent need to scale up
implementation of the country’s DSM efforts as well as to expand energy services for all South
Africans, especially those in poorer communities with limited or no energy access. A subsequent
2011 restructuring expanded the definition of investment facilitation activities to include support for
pre-investment studies (Indicator 3) under the project’s matching grants (MG) window to help
prepare RE generation projects to be technically and commercially viable and bankable. Target
values for the indicators were not changed through the restructurings.

 1.3 Primary Beneficiaries

9.      The project’s primary beneficiaries were the government, (primarily the DME, which later
became the Department of Energy [DoE]), National Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA),
other state-owned and municipal entities, as well as emerging private enterprises that were involved
or interested in RE market development.

 1.4 Original Components

10.    The REMT Project provided financing from the GEF for TA and capacity building,
not investments, with the exception of limited support for the CSWH industry’s capacity-building
and demonstration subprojects. The project’s original components were:

Component 1 - REPG (US$4.05 million): This component included technical assistance TA) and
capacity building to eliminate barriers to RE-based power generation in South Africa. It was
designed both to support the development of policy and regulatory frameworks for grid-connected
RE generation, and to conduct capacity-building activities to strengthen relevant public- and
private-sector institutions and enable them to meet the RE generation target under the REWP. The
TA was expected to help facilitate RE investments by providing Matching Grants (MG) for project
developers to conduct pre-feasibility studies for RE investments. According to the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), the total renewable generation capacity with GEF support was
anticipated to be “about 100-135 MW with a capital cost of US$ 90-120 million.”

Component 2 - CSWH (US$1.40 million): This component included support for TA and capacity-
building measures to address market and business barriers to developing a market for large-scale
CSWH South Africa. TA activities under this component were intended to support the development
of the SWH industry to international best practice by assisting with developing standards and codes,
promotion campaigns, and training. In addition, the component was intended to provide business
development support for small and medium private enterprises and demonstrate best practice for
improved design, testing, and installation through MG and performance grants (PG). According to
the PAD, since SWH transactions were not linked to transmitting power over the main grid, at
appraisal there was “no need to involve the grid operator (Eskom) in promoting the resource.”

11.    The components were not revised.



                                                  3
  1.5 Other Significant Changes

12.     Three restructurings extended the project completion date from September 30, 2011,
to December 31, 2012, and subsequently to September 30, 2013, and amended certain definitions
and the focus of some activities to reflect the changes in the environment, although the original
targets and indicators were not amended. These changes did not require Board approval, and are
described below:

     - The first restructuring of December 2009 recognized that several policy and regulatory
       activities were already underway in the wake of the country’s urgent power shortages, and
       amended the grant to emphasize stronger implementation support, including for the DoE
       and NERSA to develop “and implement” a legal, policy and regulatory framework. The
       amendment added “facilitating pre-investment activities” under MGs for RE project
       developers, and expanded eligible beneficiaries to include entities outside the private sector
       (e.g. municipalities and state-owned enterprises). It also expanded the definition of the
       CSWH component to include implementation support for all SWH. Finally, it increased
       resources for training and workshops, and created a new category for operational expenses
       related to the Implementation Support Unit (ISU).
     - The second restructuring of September 2011 followed the project’s Mid-Term Review
       (MTR) and extended the project to December 31, 2012. As the government combined
       elements of the REFIT design into a competitive public tender process known as the
       Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Program (REIPPPP), the
       amendment included a specialized consultant to provide “real-time” support to the DoE,
       reflecting the rapid changes in the RE landscape in South Africa, as well as the dramatic
       decline in prices of global RE technology and equipment. Streamlining of the MG program
       application and approval processes, and earmarking of additional resources through re-
       allocation, enabled the project to tap into and serve renewed demand from developers
       seeking pre-investment support for the preparation of projects, some of which were slated to
       participate in the REIPPPP. The amendment reduced the allocation under performance
       grants (PG), reflecting rapid implementation of SWH, and added more resources to training
       and workshops. Recognizing the REMT Project as an efficient means of supporting and
       promoting market development nationally, the DoE released the government’s counterpart
       funding, which was allocated in part toward supporting the project’s operational expenses.
     - The third restructuring of December 2012 extended the closing date to September 30, 2013.

2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

  2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

13.     GEF Grant resources were to be mobilized to overcome barriers to jump-start
progress in achieving South Africa’s long-term goals for RE development. The barriers noted
at appraisal included the challenges of projects achieving financial closure and being commissioned,
availability of supportive international finance, ease of accessing the grid, private investment in RE,
feasibility and affordability of projects, and market uptake of renewable energy technologies. The
appraisal noted that that the TA, including external funds and GEF grant resources, would provide
the incremental costs “to jump-start significant progress towards meeting its long-term target,



                                                  4
which will be met many years after the project is over.” The PAD noted that with GEF support
“perhaps two or three of the [pilot RE projects] will reach financial closure in the next few years
with official or international funds.”

14.      South Africa’s financial sector was assessed as being prepared to provide financing to
well-structured projects supported by an appropriate legal, policy, and regulatory framework.
Based on discussions with three of the four largest commercial banking groups in South Africa at
that time, as well as with specialized public-sector development finance institutions (DFIs), the
appraisal recognized that South Africa had the financial capability to raise significant resources in
the domestic and international financial markets to finance RE projects. The assessment recognized
that financial institutions would “carefully scrutinize the quality of the power off -take agreements”
and that long-term price predictability through long-term power purchase agreements (PPAs), with
transparent and adequate pricing, was the most important factor in making projects bankable to
attract commercial RE financing.

15.     The REMT Project design took into account the lessons from other countries that had
introduced programs to develop RE.1 The PAD expressed the government’s clear preference for
“production” or “output-based” incentives, such as the NERSA-approved feed-in tariffs, which the
project was expected to review. The appraisal identified gaps in the development of the RE
market—e.g., the development of an appropriate legal, policy, and regulatory landscape to enable
investment into the RE sector, as well as policy, standards, and codes to scale up installation of
SWH systems. The importance of supporting the government with high-level technical support was
recognized in this regard. Capacity-building interventions were also designed to help increase
awareness and knowledge about RE. The technical feasibility of achieving the REWP target was
assessed on the basis of a “cost curve” of RE. In addition, the project was designed to provide
grants for project developers to access incentives and prepare projects for commercial financing.

16.    South Africa is a vibrant democracy and a major emerging economy, with a strongly
participatory process of policy development and implementation. The process of preparing and
obtaining approvals for the project was highly participatory, and included the National Treasury, as
well as the then DME, now the DoE, NERSA, the Central Energy Fund (CEF) Group and Eskom.
The DoE, as the main counterpart, took the lead in outlining the government’s requirements for the
development of the RE market, and for the REMT Project’s supportive and value-added role.

Risk Identification and Mitigation Options

17.    At appraisal, the main risks were identified and appraised as low. The Development Bank
of Southern Africa (DBSA) was designated by the DoE as the project’s implementing agency to
allow the project to benefit from the DBSA’s infrastructure focus and its financial management and
procurement systems and processes. As a result, implementation risks were considered to be


1
  Examples reviewed included the limitations of investment-based incentives as compared with output-based incentives
(India); the effect of supportive regulatory frameworks (China and Sri Lanka); the effect of a combination of supportive
regulatory frameworks and capacity building (Costa Rica and Mauritius); and the effect of the use of feed-in tariffs
(Spain and France), RE portfolio standards (Denmark, Italy, and the United States), and public tendering systems
(California and Ireland).


                                                           5
minimal. However, several months elapsed before a suitable Project Coordinator could be
appointed, thus delaying the effectiveness date of the project. Another project implementation risk
that was not fully considered at appraisal related to procurement processes. The government’s
consideration of black economic empowerment (BEE) as an evaluation criterion in procurement
processes differed from the Bank’s requirement for selection processes, which are based on
technical and financial grounds only. As a result, it took time before the matter was resolved,
resulting in early implementation delays.2

    2.2 Implementation

18.    Any policy or project implementation success occurs within a context and necessarily
rests on invaluable contributions from several numerous domestic stakeholders and external
partners that can rightfully claim to have played a role in supporting the government in the
development of the market, thereby potentially creating an issue of attribution. This challenge is
addressed in this report by showing a tight linkage between specified REMT project outputs that
supported and contributed to the accelerated achievement of certain key outcomes and milestones in
the development of the overall market, or of development of specific market segments.

19.     Starting in 2006-07, South Africa’s electricity sector experienced a tightening in the
supply-demand balance, and power shortages, which were first experienced in the Western Cape
and eventually affected the entire country. These shortages turned out to significantly greater and
more persistent than had been anticipated, while Eskom’s supply remained under development and
coal supply issues emerged. Recognition of the seriousness of the challenges ahead spurred an
unprecedented level of urgency in the response by a wide variety of institutions, agencies and other
stakeholders, who advocated for a diverse set of relevant and complementary concerns included for
urgent new supply-side generation, energy efficiency and DSM measures, climate change response
strategy, emphasis on job creation efforts, and fiscal moderation and cost-effectiveness. The nature
and persistence of the power shortages over time placed constraints on base-load power, which was
a strong incentive on implementing SWH, not only as an aggressive DSM measure for peak
demand management, but also as an energy efficiency measure to enhance energy security. South
Africa’s hosting of major international events such the 2010 World Cup soccer tournament and the
2011 Durban Climate Change Conference of the Parties added an international context to the
internal urgency to show strong results on SWH and on REPG development.

20.      REMT support, along with other development partners, played an important and
value-added role in preparing the ground for the government to enable private sector
participation in renewable energy. By supporting the government, and, in particular the DoE and
NERSA, REMT contributed to key targeted interventions required for the implementation of urgent
energy demand- and supply-side measures in the country. The project’s efforts were in the form of
capacity-building activities, including for private-sector project developers, as well as legal, policy,
and regulatory framework reviews undertaken by the ISU from the beginning of 2009. Sponsored
activities included convening of public workshops and conferences in cooperation with the


2
  To address this issue, the Bank and the DoE agreed to include local consultants as an evaluation criterion, without
reference to BEE. They also allocated 17 percent of the project’s budget categories, excluding capacity building, to
local consultants, based on the understanding that such expenditures would be funded from the DoE’s contribution.


                                                         6
government that brought together key stakeholders, and facilitated informed and participatory
decision making in response to some of the key energy-sector issues. Project implementation
focused on filling gaps—e.g. building early market confidence in the process and comfort in key
project documentation, creating an analytical and planning framework for greater share of
renewables, and further developing market segments, such as SWH for residential and low income
communities nationally. Implementation accelerated after the first and second project restructurings.

Renewable Energy Power Generation Component

21.     REMT procured the services of a specialist energy project finance law firm for review
of the draft standardized PPA published by NERSA in July 2009. REMT played a value-added
role by contracting with a specialist project finance law firm to assist local project developers to
comment on NERSA’s draft standardized PPA developed under the REFIT program.
Recommendations based on global best practice in project finance on such issues as risk allocation
built early market confidence by not only enhancing the commercial viability and bankability of the
proposed PPA, but also by reducing initial apprehensions of project developers in the government’s
process to procure RE. The specialist review laid the foundation for the standardized PPA that was
used later as the basis for bankable independent power producer (IPP) transactions.

22.     REMT’s review of the 2003 REWP included a modelling of RE technology learning
curves which proved instrumental to expanding allocations for RE in the Integrated
Resource Plan (IRP). A key output of the review process was the modeling of RE technology
learning curves, which coincided with the national electricity planning process of South Africa’s
IRP. 3 The DoE recognized the relevance of the technology learning curves emerging from the
REMT review, and facilitated their incorporation into the IRP process. This resulted in a cost-
optimized IRP model that allocated greater capacity for RE, thereby providing a sound analytical
basis for planning the implementation of the DoE’s policy of substantially increasing the share of
RE in the projected energy mix. According to the resulting IRP, with a projected capacity of 17,800
MW of generation from wind, solar photovoltaic (PV) and concentrated solar power (CSP) by 2030,
RE was projected to account for approximately 20 percent of generation capacity.

23.    The resulting higher IRP allocation for RE coincided with the dramatic decline of
global prices for RE technologies starting in 2010–11. Consistent with the constitutional
requirement for competitive and cost-effective procurement, the IRP provided South Africa with an
opportunity to pivot quickly from the REFIT platform toward implementation of the Renewable
Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Program (REIPPPP), South Africa’s flagship
program for RE, which was announced in 2011. The first two bidding windows (rounds) of the
REIPPPP resulted in estimated investments of US$7.45 billion4 for the addition of about 2,445 MW
of newly installed grid-connected RE capacity, including nearly 1,200 MW of new wind power,
more than 1,000 MW of solar PV, and 200 MW of CSP.


3
    The IRP is the instrument used for planning the introduction of new generation capacity.

4
 US$ 2.31 billion of this investment amount was slated to be spent on the procurement of local goods and services in
support of the Government’s re-industrialization and job-creation drive.



                                                             7
24.     Each of the three REIPPPP rounds conducted so far has seen a sustained drop in
average bid prices. The second round saw average bid prices of approximately US 9.09
cents/kilowatt-hour (kWh) for wind power, down from an average bid price of US 11.58 cents/kWh
from the first bidding window and a 40 per cent average bid reduction for solar PV. In late 2013,
the DoE announced that an additional estimated capacity of 1,400 MW of renewable generation
capacity was procured through the third round of IPP procurement. Over time, the wind tariffs are
expected to converge with Eskom’s average tariff, which has been escalating annually.

Table 1: Aggregated Results of first two rounds of the REIPPPP

          Rounds         Capacity (MW)               Average price       Investment (USD
                                                    (US cents/kWh)           billions)

                      Wind     Solar     CSP   Wind     Solar   CSP     Wind   Solar   CSP
                                PV                       PV                     PV
             Bid       634     631.5     150   11.58    27.95   27.22   1.29   2.22    1.16
          window 1
             Bid      562.5    417.1     50    9.09     16.67   25.46   1.10   1.22    0.46
          window 2
            Total    1,196.5   1,048.6   200                            2.39   3.44    1.62

25.     Accelerated implementation of the REMT MG program following the first and second
restructurings helped provide timely preparation support to several project developers .
REMT provided pre-investment support to the development of 14 RE projects for a generation
capacity of 275 MW. Five of the REMT-supported solar PV projects with a combined generation
capacity of 85 MW are shareholders in project Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV) that have been
selected as preferred bidders in the first round of the REIPPPP, together representing an estimated
combined estimated investment of XYZ. These projects include Momentous Energy (RustMo1 - 7
MW), SunEdison Southern Africa (Witkop and Soutpan Solar Parks, 30 MW and 28 MW,
respectively) and Aurora Power Solutions (Konkoonsies and Aries, 10 MW each). The 7-MW grid-
connected RustMol PV plant—had been commissioned by the end of 2013, while the other four
were at an advanced stage of construction in preparation for commercial operation in 2014. Two of
the successful REMT-supported IPPs, currently under construction are in South Africa’s Limpopo
Province, a region with high socioeconomic development needs. Under the third window of
REIPPPP, an additional four (4) solar PV projects with combined generation capacity of 190 MW
were notified that they had “met requirements” for the over-subscribed third round of the REIPPPP.
These projects, which include Ample Solar’s projects (75 MW and 50 MW) and BNM Fruil
Energy's projects (10 MW and 55 MW) are currently on the “reserve list,” with the expectation that
they would be informed by the government around the end of March 2014 of any possibility of
increasing the maximum financial allocation to the round in order to accommodate bidders that met
program requirements.

26.    REMT supported a CSP workshop in September 2009. One of the outcomes was the
formation of the Southern Africa Solar Thermal and Electricity Association (SASTELA),
which has since played a crucial role in the development of the CSP industry in South Africa by
making inputs to the IRP and positioning CSP as a viable peaking-power option. SASTELA’s
members have also participated in the REIPPPP. REMT also supported the Upington Solar Park
Investors’ Conference, which highlighted the trade-off between fixed REFIT rates and a large scale-


                                                8
up of the REIPPPP. Some of these considerations were reflected in the government’s
implementation of the REIPPPP. Finally, REMT supported the government in collaboration with
the DBSA and the Biogas Industry Association of Southern Africa to convene a biogas energy
conference in 2013, in order to encourage interest by project developers to demonstrate interest in
developing small IPPs using biogas, which had seen very limited interest from project developers in
the first two REIPPPP rounds.

27.      REMT procured an expert consultant to provide specialized “real-time” support
directly to the DoE. The project facilitated an expert review of public comments on legislation to
facilitate easier access to the grid by IPPs. Inputs by the legal advisory specialist resulted in a timely
contribution to the development of legislation to restructure the transmission system as a way of
further facilitating the entry of IPPs. The draft legislation, known as the Independent System and
Market Operator (ISMO) Bill, is currently undergoing processing by the South African parliament.

Solar Water Heating Component

28.     REMT supported South Africa’s SWH industry through targeted studies, reports,
grants, and capacity building. As of September 2013, more than 312,000 residential SWH
systems had been installed nationally, representing an overall investment of US$148 million.5 SWH
implementation in South Africa was scaled up in the wake of the urgent need for energy efficiency
and DSM, and the market’s interest shifted to accessing capital for the installation of SWH systems,
largely through the Eskom-administered electricity tariff-based rebate program. To receive the
rebates, installers had to be certified under SWH industry standards and codes that had been
developed by the South African Bureau of Standards (SABS) in 2009. 6 As a TA facility, the
project did not directly finance the installation of SWH systems, except by limited performance
grant support to develop, demonstrate, document, and patent an innovative ladder design for SWH
installation, as well as to test SWH systems on a pass/fail basis. Another REMT grant-supported
SWH beneficiary, Digital Energy Solutions, has reported over four thousand SWH installations.
The project scaled back the SWH grant program based on accelerated implementation of SWH
installations from ongoing assessment of market development and focused on the most urgent
market gaps and needs identified.

29.      The REMT-sponsored National Solar Water Heating Framework (NSWHF)
contributed to the development of a national rollout program, involving the DoE and Eskom, as
well as the CEF Group, DBSA and Industrial Development Corporation (IDC), among other
institutions. Recognizing the importance of expanding access to SWH to lower-income
communities across the nation, REMT supported the development of an SWH Business Plan for the
Free State province of South Africa in 2010. The study provided a detailed outline of the key
practical challenges and considerations for the rollout of SWH systems as key design elements of
the framework, which, in turn, recommended key elements of the national rollout program,


5
  These amounts include the effect of Eskom’s rollout program for its own account (since 2008), as well as the initial
tranche of the substantial US$480 million fiscal allocation for SWH.
6
  These included SANS 1307:2009 (Domestic solar water heaters), SANS 10106 (The installation, maintenance, repair,
and replacement of domestic solar water heating systems, 3 rd edition), SANS 6210 (Mechanical qualification tests), and
SANS 6211 (Thermal performance of solar water heaters).


                                                           9
including centralized purchasing of SWH products and services. The DoE’s designation of Eskom
as the entity that would purchase SWH systems from various manufacturers was based on a
recommendation of elements of a “bulk buyer” or “Super-Esco” concept, thereby helping to create
the economies of scale necessary to build a sustainable SWH industry, including job creation
through the local manufacture of SWH components and training of installers.

30.     REMT supported the government to develop a training program to accredit SWH
installers under the NSWHP. The certification program was developed with REMT support to
train and certify installers across the country, especially those in smaller towns and provinces. The
program, which offers the plumbing elective course Unit Standard ID 244499 and core course Unit
Standard ID 262784, is to be implemented with DoE resources through accredited vocational
training institutions across South Africa.7

    2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

31.     REMT provided targeted, strategic assistance in support of developing a market that
had been effectively nonexistent at appraisal. The project sought to support the development and
subsequent implementation of legal, policy, and regulatory frameworks; to make available a
database of RE resources for project developers in support of feasibility studies; and to build
capacity among key public-sector institutions and private-sector participants in support of the
government’s significant efforts to promote RE investment. Between 10 and 14 enterprises were to
be supported in the development of RE generation projects, with a corresponding target of 4 to 6
feasibility studies. It was envisaged that increasing knowledge would primarily be in the form of
workshops and training interventions, as well as through a “help-desk” supporting the MG program.

32.    While the project design selected adequate indicators to measure progress toward the
PDO/GEO, some target values within the results framework were not aligned. CO2 emissions
avoided (tons/CO2) from SWH were computed as the product of power generation avoided (GWh)
and the grid emission factor. However, the target values indicated for CO2 avoided in the PAD were
not proportionate to the power generation avoided, suggesting an error in calculating the target
value for CO2 avoided. As a result, although the project far exceeded the target for avoided power
generation, it achieved, but did not exceed, the PAD’s cumulative target for avoided CO2 emissions.

33.     The results framework for the TA operation logically included several indicators that
were outside the direct scope of project activities. As a TA operation, it was logical that REMT
would support and catalyze actions and investments that were outside of the project’s direct scope
of activities. It was expected that if successful, the role of the project, in cooperation with
development partners, was to support the government in the development and implementation of
the legal policy and regulatory frameworks, in order to catalyze an RE market that would leverage



7
 Installers are also expected to possess a Further Education Training (FET) Certificate in Plumbing at National
Qualification Framework (NQF) Level 4 (Qualification ID 58782).




                                                      10
significant investments from the private-sector. The project design logically anticipated this
potential leverage of external resources, and several of the outcome indicators reflect this role.

34.    REMT was proactively restructured three times during its implementation to
proactively respond to market conditions. By the time the project became effective, South
Africa’s institutions had already started to respond urgently to system-wide power shortages with a
range of measures, including aggressive implementation of DSM measures. Eskom, which began to
implement a SWH program as a DSM measure in November 2008, started to develop SWH
standards and codes, along with the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) for consideration by
the SABS. Rather than duplicate efforts, the project focused on providing support for
implementation of all SWH, including development of training for installers, and development of a
national SWH program, including among low-income household segments. The target values of
relevant indicators were not updated during implementation.

Data Collection and Use of Data

35.     Project data were used as an input to make strategic decisions on a national level, as
well as for project-level re-allocation of resources through restructurings and revised
procurement plans. South Africa has a multitude of institutions that have a role in the
development of an RE market, including institutions concerned about rapidity of implementation,
while also balancing important elements, such as project cost, project financing, job creation,
environmental sustainability, availability of transmission networks, access to government
guarantees and fiscal policy. The extent to which M&E data were collected in the project depended
on the indicator and institution concerned, as described below:
    - Legal, policy, and regulatory frameworks for grid-based studies: The DoE facilitated the
       application of the concept of RE technology learning curves in the IRP modeling process,
       based on the preliminary data and analysis from the modeling of technology curves
       undertaken as part of the REMT-supported review of the REWP. This resulted in an
       increased share for RE in planned generation capacity in the period to 2030, and formed the
       basis of the REIPPPP targets.
    - Number and quality of project developer applications supported: Data on the low
       percentage of successful applications in the first round of the MG program provided the basis
       for improving the quality of subsequent MG applications and the project’s ability to support
       them. The information was used to organize multiple promotional workshops across the
       country to tap market demand from project developers to prepare for the REIPPPP; to
       implement a multi-round MG procurement process; to increase the resources allocated for
       MG for renewable power generation; and to increase the maximum MG amount per
       beneficiary. These interventions resulted in significant increases in the quantity and quality
       of applications received by the MG program from project developers.
    - Number of SWH systems installed: Although this indicator was amended from CSWH and
       expanded to include all SWH in 2009, the corresponding target was not revised. Market
       feedback was used to reduce the allocation for SWH grants following the 2011 MTR, and the
       project focused on defining various SWH market segments, which included low-income
       households. Data from the SWH Business Plan for the Free State province of South Africa
       (first half of 2010) provided a detailed outline of the key practical considerations for the
       rollout of SWH systems, especially in low-income communities. Historical investment



                                                 11
      patterns were used to develop the national SWH program and to re-allocate SWH spending
      across South Africa’s provinces. Eskom and NERSA used program data to assess SWH as a
      demand-side measure and to determine the extent to which electricity tariffs could be used to
      fund the installation of SWH systems.

 2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

36.    Gaps identified between the World Bank’s procurement and financial management
processes and the DBSA’s procedures were proactively resolved. The ISU developed an
Operations Manual as a way of clarifying the interfaces between REMT’s procurement processes
and the DBSA’s procedures. The World Bank team scheduled procurement training sessions on
applicable World Bank procedures, and input from the Post Procurement Review helped strengthen
the ISU’s capacity to execute its fiduciary responsibilities. The DBSA also made available a
procurement specialist, who provided valuable support to the ISU. The World Bank provided
support to the ISU and the DBSA’s Financial Management Unit (FMU), and the ISU addressed
early gaps identified as part of preparing for the project’s first external audit. These adjustments
were made in time for the commencement of the MG program in 2010, and following the MTR
when the number and average value of transactions increased.

 2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase



37.    The policy and regulatory reforms initiated by REMT are on track to be sustained
through implementation of national programs for both renewable power generation and SWH.
Well-balanced PPAs, among other interventions, underlined RE investments and are a continuing
legacy of the project, which made important contributions to their development.

38.     Institutional capacity was enhanced at institutional, enterprise, and industry levels.
South Africa’s thriving RE market is a legacy to which the project made timely and important
supporting contributions. The formation and support of industry associations resulting from national
conferences are a sustaining benefit of the project. SASTELA’s advocacy is expected to continue as
the South African RE market evolves. The SASTELA model set the stage at a 2013 conference for
the establishment of a fledgling industry association of biogas producers that is expected to play a
key role in the evolution of the DoE’s proposed small RE IPP program.

39.     Key recommendations and decisions will provide local job creation opportunities. The
DoE has developed a national training program for installers and has designated Eskom as the
centralized entity to purchase SWH systems from various manufacturers as part of the REMT-
sponsored NSWHF and the national rollout of the SWH program. Eskom’s access to the substantial
ZAR4.7 billion (US$480 million) fiscal allocation for this purpose would help create the economies
of scale necessary to build a sustainable SWH industry, including for local manufacture of SWH
components and training of installers, with opportunities for job creation as an important step for
the establishment of a “green economy” in South Africa.




                                                12
3.      Assessment of Outcomes

    3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
        Rating: High

40.    The PDO/GEO remains relevant, especially in light of the rapid changes that took
place in the South African energy policy environment while the project was underway. South
Africa continues to address a number of ongoing policy issues related to climate change mitigation,
including diversifying the country’s energy mix and strengthening its institutional capacity. Given
the continued relevance of the objectives, design, and implementation, a key question for the DoE is
how it would continue to systematically support a number of ongoing initiatives started with REMT
support. In particular, in light of the DoE’s announcement of a procurement program for small RE
IPPs in mid-2013, it is recognized that emerging project developers could benefit from an MG
program similar to that supported by REMT.

41.     The project’s legal, policy, and regulatory outcomes remain relevant to future
evolution of the market for RE power generation. Given the importance of the IRP as a planning
and policy decision-making tool, REMT’s review of the socioeconomic impact of various planning
scenarios remains relevant, especially as it could support the government’s intention to develop a
green economy. The IRP model, which incorporates technology curves, will continue to enhance
system planning, including proper modeling of the competitiveness of grid-connected RE relative to
fossil fuel-based power generation. National legislation for the ISMO Bill is under consideration by
the South African parliament.

42.    Provision for development of training and certification services has reinforced the
continuing relevance of the PDO/GEO. The successful rollout of the national SWH program is
dependent on reliable equipment and skilled installers. The use of a standards-based testing process
for quality assurance is relevant, especially for the promotion of locally manufactured SWH
systems, and is also as a model for new initiatives, such as the small RE IPP program.

    3.2 Achievement of PDO/GEO
        Rating: Satisfactory

43.     REMT played a supportive, catalyzing role providing targeted, strategic assistance
toward the achievement of the PDO/GEO. In the context of South Africa’s rapidly changing
policy and planning environment,8 the project’s legacy includes its timely support to the DoE in
particular, and through its contributions to the development of the RE market, as outlined in this
report. According to the IRP developed with key insights from an REMT-supported study, with a
projected capacity of 16,800 MW of generation from wind and solar PV by 2030, RE is projected to
account for approximately 20 percent of generation capacity, far surpassing expectations at the time
of appraisal. Through the NSWHF, the project has provided the basis for a collaborative effort



8
  A detailed account of the achievement of the PDO/GEO is presented in Annex 2. The Results Framework outlined in
the PAD provides a basis for assessing achievement, the focus being the associated outcome indicators and targets.
Wherever applicable, causal linkages between the project’s outputs and outcomes are highlighted.


                                                       13
between the DoE and Eskom in broadening the SWH program to low-income households, as well
as facilitating the development of a local SWH industry.

44.     The achievements from successful implementation of the first two bidding windows of
the REIPPPP, including for local job creation, are likely to continue. Of the more than US$7
billion in investments from the first two rounds of the REIPPPP, US$2.31 billion was slated to be
spent on the procurement of local goods and services in support of the government’s re-
industrialization and job-creation drive. As has been publicly reported, at least two solar PV
projects had been connected to the grid at the time of compiling this ICR, including the 75-MW
Scatec plant and the 7-MW RustMo1 plant (the second project benefited from REMT MG support).
Other projects from the first two rounds are at various stages of construction. Toward the end of
2013, the DoE announced the preferred bidders from the third bidding window. Of 93 bidders, 17
projects were selected. The preferred bidders in the third round were expected to provide an
additional 1,472 MW of RE generation capacity. Four (4) projects supported by REMT were
notified that they had met the requirements of the third window, and were placed on a “reserve list”,
pending further budgetary allocation for the window. Further bidding windows are envisaged,
especially taking into account the interest generated by the REIPPPP and the government’s re -
industrialization and job-creation drives.

45.     REMT facilitated national multi-stakeholder workshops for discussions on REPG
(including CSP) and SWH. REMT supported the DoE with the planning and organization of five
major national events, including the 2009 National SWH Workshop, the 2009 Renewable Energy
Summit, the 2009 CSP Industrial Potential Workshop, the 2009 National SWH Conference and the
2010 Solar Park Investors Conference. One of the outcomes at the CSP event was the establishment
of a CSP industry association, SASTELA, which continues to play a constructive role in the
development of the CSP sector in South Africa. Further outcomes of the events were increased
interest and action on implementation of SWH in the public and private sectors, and significant
fiscal allocations for future installations. Finally, REMT supported the government in collaboration
with the DBSA and the Biogas Industry Association of Southern Africa to convene a biogas energy
conference in 2013, in order to encourage interest by project developers to demonstrate interest in
developing small IPPs using biogas, which was an area with very little interest shown in the first
two rounds of the REIPPPP. A thriving market for RE power development exists today in South
Africa, having developed over a few short years, during which the project, along with other
development partners, provided timely targeted support to the government and stakeholders.

 3.3 Efficiency
     Rating: Satisfactory

46.     Efficiency has been assessed using different approaches and methods, including
quantitative assessment of the performance of the project itself. In addition, given the project’s
catalytic role as a TA operation, this report also quantitatively assesses the projected performance of
the national SWH rollout program, and qualitatively assesses the project’s contribution to the
REIPPPP.

47.     The quantitative assessment for SWH (Component 2) uses as its basis the national SWH
rollout program, which has received considerable financial support from the Government of South



                                                  14
Africa. A summary of the assessment, including a similar assessment that was undertaken at project
appraisal, is included in Table for comparison. Taking into account steep increases in electricity
tariffs, a weakened local currency, and the government’s policy thrust to broaden access to SWH in
favor of low-income households, the estimated internal rate of return (IRR) (without accounting for
CO2 emission reductions) is 15 percent. This compares with an IRR of 14 percent at project
appraisal, which was based on a projection of a much smaller number of demonstration SWH
systems. Taking into account the effect of CO2 emission reductions at the same price used at project
appraisal (i.e., US$4 per ton) results in an estimated IRR of 16 percent, compared with 17 percent at
project appraisal. The IRR taking into account the effect of CO2 emissions would be higher if
higher carbon prices are assumed—e.g., approximately US$12 per ton under the proposed South
Africa carbon tax. The details of the analysis are included in Annex 3.

Table 2: Assessment of efficiency: Solar water heating (SWH)




                                                                                                         Environme
                                                                                            reductions
                                                                                            Projected
                                                                        economic




                                                                                                          economic
                                                         electricity




                                                                         benefits




                                                                                                           benefits
                      systems



                                    Capital




                                                         Projected
                       SWH




                                                                                               CO2




                                                                                                             ntal
                                     cost




                                                                                                             and
                                                                           Net




                                                                                                             Net
                                                         savings
                                                                                              USD
                  Projected       USD                     USD            USD                (million         USD
                    units       (million)     GWh       (million)      (million)     kT         )          (million)
       Project      105           0.03        1. 73      0.063          0.032       1.850    0.0074          0.04
      appraisal
                                              IRR (over 15 years)       14%                                 17%
                  468,870         391          3,840      896           505         4,109      16           522
        ICR
                                              IRR (over 15 years)       15%                                 16%


48.     The GEF’s leverage of additional resources in support of RE power generation
(Component 1) and SWH installations (Component 2) is demonstrated by the project’s
contribution to the REIPPPP and by the number of SWH installations. This TA, through small, but
well-directed support, along with other support from development partners, leveraged multibillion-
dollar private investment support for RE generation. The multi-billion dollar investment value
generated by the REIPPPP provides a qualitative indication of the efficiency with which the
relevant aspects of the project’s PDO/GEO were catalyzed, in part, through TA activities supported
by the project, but outside of its direct scope. Similarly, the GEF’s leverage of additional resources
in support of SWH installations (Component 2) is reflected in the implementation to date of well
over 316,000 SWH systems, far above what had been anticipated at appraisal. Table 3 shows the
private sector’s contribution to the MG program, as outlined in detail in Annex 3. The MG program
performed the best among the various project activities from the perspective of the outcomes that
were in the project’s direct scope of activities supported, taking into account the disbursement
profile and implementation of planned activities (i.e., grant funding and technical support). The
total direct financial amount advanced by both the Project and the private-sector entities to the MG
program was ZAR27.02 million (US$2.74 million).




                                                            15
Table 3: Private sector Contributions to Matching Grants

                  Expenditure                     Amount               Including private-sector
                    Category                       (ZAR)              contribution to MG (ZAR)
  Total consultant services                       10,114,442.66                        10,114,442.66
  Total goods and services                           663,529.35                           663,529.35
  Total MG                                        13,513,741.73                        27,027,483.46
  Total PG                                                    -                                    -
  Total training and workshops                       433,110.57                           433,110.57
  Total disbursements                             19,783,233.59                        38,238,566.04
  Total operational expenditure (Opex)             2,022,588.80                         2,022,588.80

49.     Ex-post incremental cost analysis of GEF funding shows that the project’s global
benefits exceed what was anticipated at the time of appraisal. At project close, it is noted that
the market has indeed been jump started in its long-term goal to develop 10,000 GWh, and many of
the barriers noted (e.g., challenges to financial closure) have been addressed; the cost differential
between RE and fossil fuels has been reduced; and the market has seen development of wind, solar
PV, and CSP projects at a large scale. Project development has been promoted, and the results have
been seen through the implementation of the first two rounds of the REIPPPP, which combined
elements of incentive systems with typical features of bidding/tendering mechanisms, and resulted
in leveraging billions of dollars for RE project development in South Africa.

 3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
     Rating: Satisfactory

50.    The project is rated overall as Satisfactory, as a result of considering the rating of its
relevance, achievements, and efficiency, each of which is rated as Satisfactory.

51.     The project made strategic choices to support activities related to legal, policy, and
regulatory frameworks and capacity building, which addressed critical issues related to both RE
power development and SWH. The effect, in close coordination with the government, was to
leverage other resources in the development of these sectors in South Africa, especially noting that
these had been nonexistent at project appraisal. The data sheet of this paper identifies the achieved
results and outcomes in detail, including those within the scope of the project, as well as results
leveraged outside the scope of the project through well-directed TA and capacity building activities.

52.     With respect to RE power generation, the key outcome is the REIPPPP, whose
establishment and implementation the project supported through contributions to a bankable PPA
leading to early market confidence in the process; to a greater share of RE in the IRP; and to
development of the CSP sector in South Africa. Further bidding windows are envisaged, especially
taking into account the interest generated by the REIPPPP and the government’s re-industrialization
drive. The Project supported several project developers to prepare for this process through MG,
with some notable successes reported.

53.    With respect to SWH, the main strategic contribution was through project
contributions to the framework that led to the development of the national SWH rollout


                                                 16
program. The key outcomes relate to the segmentation of the SWH market in a way that also
included low-income households, which contributed to the national roll-out of the SWH program;
and the establishment of a central SWH purchasing agency as a way of reducing costs and creating
scale. The central SWH purchasing agency contributed to prospects for the development of local
SWH manufacturing capacity, as this enabled bulk procurement and the large-scale application of
approved standards. As of September 2013, 316,000 SWH systems were installed, representing an
overall investment of US$148.4 million.9 Project support through a PG to an innovative installation
process has resulted in several hundred installations annually by the beneficiary. REMT support for
development of an installer training program will continue with DoE support, and will help extend
the scope of SWH installations to less represented provinces and a broader socio-economic group of
beneficiaries.

    3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

     (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.     Development policy in South Africa, in part because of the pernicious effects of
apartheid, is focused on job creation and economic development. The scope and design of the
project did not entail reporting specifically on poverty impacts, gender-related aspects, and social
development. Nevertheless, two of the RE projects that were supported through REMT’s MG
program and were successful in the first round of the REIPPPP are located in two relatively
underdeveloped provinces in South Africa (i.e., Limpopo and Northern Cape). The requirement of
the REIPPPP for project developers to provide for local development means that all RE IPP
projects must make a positive contribution to the social welfare of the communities within which
they plan to operate. Finally, a key outcome of REMT’s support for market segmentation of SWH
implementation resulted in the development the national rollout of the SWH program to encourage
implementation among lower-income households.

     (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

55.    The South African RE sector at project close was markedly different from where it
was at appraisal. Institutionally, the RE market—comprising regulators; governmental institutions;
and the private sector, including project developers, commercial lenders, and service providers—
had demonstrated remarkable progress in their knowledge, experience and capacity and have
produced concrete results over a relatively short period. The REIPPPP experience, in combining
elements of a feed-in tariff within a tendering procurement process, is a RE model for other
countries seeking to initiate and scale-up RE investments in a sustainable and cost-effective manner.




9
  This amount includes the effect of Eskom’s rollout program for its own account (since 2008), as well as the initial
tranche of the substantial US$0.48 billion fiscal allocation from the DoE.



                                                           17
  3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

56.    As part of the project close-out process, the ISU requested feedback from MG beneficiaries.
The comments received from beneficiaries are summarized below:
     - The project had a beneficial impact on the ability of project developers to conduct
       their feasibility studies. The project was well structured and implemented in a targeted way
       that made a materially positive difference to project developers. The outreach activities
       across the country undertaken by the Project Coordinator during the fourth round of the MG
       program played a critical role in marketing the program to potential beneficiaries.
     - The ISU was sufficiently flexible to accommodate external changes in implementation
       schedules. The government’s original intention of organizing four REIPPPP bidding
       windows annually could not be realized. The resulting changes in the REIPPPP
       implementation schedule meant that it was a challenge for some of the MG beneficiaries to
       adhere to the timelines agreed for grant funding purposes. However, ISU team members
       showed flexibility in responding to changing requirements of project developers to meet
       these needs. Certain delays in implementation of the MG program from the second half of
       2012 could have been mitigated by better communication from the ISU, in particular,
       regarding the lack of continuity of a Project Coordinator in 2013, resulting in delays to
       contracting with the beneficiaries approved in the final round of the MG program.
     - A project similar to REMT, with transaction support and an MG process, could be
       helpful to support the small RE IPP program. Should further financing opportunities be
       available, it was noted that it would be helpful if a REMT-like project could support
       processes related to the small RE IPP program, announced by the DoE in 2013, which
       targets development of RE projects with capacity not exceeding 5 MW. This program could
       benefit from the establishment of a small central coordinating body to facilitate project
       developers’ and policymakers’ access to transaction and technical specialists. Some of this
       assistance could be directed to interactions with municipalities, noting that the smaller
       projects would more likely connect to municipal-owned grids. Other areas of potential
       support indicated included the development of a capital financing instrument and legal
       support services for small projects, taking into account the high costs of professional fees.

4.     Assessment of Risk to the GEO


57.     Putting into place a sound regulatory system for development of RE markets has
created a basis for attracting and sustaining private investment. The country has developed a
track record of attracting and supporting both public and private investment to developing RE for
power generation and SWH. Taking into account the outcomes of both project components, the
financial risks to the continued sustainability of the GEO are considered Moderate.

58.      Lower average prices bid in the three successive rounds of the competitive REIPPPP
are widely viewed as a positive development. However, it is unclear whether expectations of a
continued reduction in bid prices can be sustained in subsequent rounds. An important question is
whether prices in subsequent bidding rounds would fall further, and what effect this could have on
the IRRs of project developers. A related question is whether the South African financial
institutions that supported developers in earlier bidding rounds would have adequate financial



                                                18
capacity to participate in later rounds. As the fall in REIPPPP prices also reflects the current global
overcapacity in wind and solar power generation systems, the extent to which these prices reflect
the long-run generation capacity constraints in South Africa is limited. Increasing grid-based
electricity tariffs in South Africa could be conducive to the financial viability of distributed
generation options, such as rooftop solar PV, which could prosper in an environment of increasing
prices paid by end consumers for grid-based electricity. In addition, new financing models should
be explored to attract long-term “yield” institutional investors to refinance projects as they get
commissioned and enter regular operations. Finally, it not clear to what extent the establishment of
a credit-worthy single buyer over time would have on the market.

59.     The limited number of trained SWH installers across the country presents a moderate
risk to national implementation of the SWH rollout program. The majority of SWH
installations have been in and around the major metropolitan areas of Gauteng and Kwa Zulu-Natal,
and, to a lesser extent the Western and Eastern Cape, respectively, which enjoy a large
concentration of trained installers and plumbers. With national implementation of SWH, there is a
risk of an insufficient number of trained installers in other locations across the country in the
remaining provinces of Limpopo, Northern Cape, Mpumulanga, Northwest, and Free State. South
Africa intends to implement appropriately developed installation training and certification programs,
coupled with targeted market awareness campaigns to attract young people to serve these markets.

60.     High up-front costs of SWH systems remain a barrier to attract end consumers.
Despite steep increases in electricity prices from 2009 onward, SWH had not attracted the attention
of end customers as a financially viable alternative energy source without continued rebates or
subsidies. Under the Eskom SWH rebate scheme, an SWH installer receives payment (or rebate) for
each accredited SWH system installed. 10 This risk could be mitigated by the development of
revenue models that are based on the value of the savings in power generation and reductions in
CO2 emissions; however, low global carbon prices and the high cost of SWH systems remain
barriers. The proposed introduction of a carbon tax, and the ability to offset it, could provide
additional incentives to mitigate this risk. In addition, local production of SWH components could
offer an opportunity for lower-cost systems.

61.     Lower energy consumption resulting from the installation of SWH systems could have
adverse financial effects on municipalities. Municipalities derive an important part of their
revenue base from reselling electricity to end consumers. Obtaining the expected level of support
for the SWH rollout program would require consideration of this issue, especially where middle- to
high-income households contribute a significant share of municipal finances.




62.     The government has shown strong commitment to the project’s PDO/GEOs. The DoE’s
support, in the form of co-financing and participating in oversight functions, illustrated a very high
level of government ownership. This strong commitment was illustrated by the substantial fiscal


10
     The funds for the rebates were initially derived from NERSA-approved tariffs, and later from fiscal transfers.



                                                             19
allocation of ZAR4.7 billion to the national SWH rollout program, and by the focus placed on
ensuring that the appropriate institutional arrangements were in place to support the SWH rollout
program, including the designation of an implementing agency that would be accountable to the
DoE. The use of a public-private partnership (PPP) arrangements, in the form of envisaged
concessions to approved SWH suppliers, supported by the implementation of a training program for
SWH installation, also contributes to creating the necessary implementation capacity.

63.     More broadly, the government has made a range of related commitments that seek to
strengthen the PDO/GEO. On July 1, 2009, the government started to implement an
environmental levy on the production of electricity from coal, with the intention of complementing
DSM efforts. The levy was also seen as a first step toward developing a carbon tax to achieve long-
term climate change objectives, which the government proposed would be designed to minimize
potential adverse impacts on low-income households and industry competitiveness. An energy
efficiency tax incentive in the form of a tax deduction of 45 Rand-cents/kWh to address
improvement in energy use is in place, and is expected to run until January 2020. It is designed as a
complementary mechanism (carrot) in anticipation of the implementation of the proposed carbon
tax, with some of the proposed carbon tax revenue being recycled through the tax deduction.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

  5.1 World Bank

     (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64.     The World Bank’s performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project is rated Moderately Satisfactory, reflecting some minor shortcomings in Quality at Entry.

65.     The project design was highly strategic at a time when the South African RE sector
was virtually nonexistent. The appraisal recognized South Africa’s sound fiscal and monetary
policies, including a strong financial sector. These policies stood the country in good stead to attract
RE investments within the legal, policy, and regulatory frameworks to be developed. The project’s
approach was informed by the Bank’s correct assessment at entry that without appropriate support
mechanisms, the development of RE power generation and SWH would be limited, since prevailing
electricity prices at that time were substantially lower than the costs of long-run marginal capacity
expansion, primarily in relation to coal-based electricity generation.

66.     While the 2003 REWP created a policy goal, there was no legislation enabling the
purchase of power from RE IPPs. In the context of the lack of market development at the time of
appraisal, it was logically correct to provide for TA support for a number of legislative, regulatory,
and statutory frameworks required to facilitate the implementation of the REWP. These frameworks
included the development of enabling legislation that would provide for the purchase of RE
(realized in the form of the passage of the 2008 Energy Act), the detailed design of the REFIT
mechanism, and the formulation of SWH standards. The project design also correctly identified the
need for a robust grid-access framework for RE IPPs, and noted that it was imperative that the
private sector, policymakers and regulators develop adequate knowledge about RE.



                                                  20
67.      The governance arrangements related to the project reflected a good mix between the
policymaker (DoE), the regulator (NERSA), and an energy-sector implementing agency (CEF
Group). The location of the ISU at the DBSA, one of South Africa’s premier development finance
institutions, was also logically expected to contribute to the coordinated removal of RE barriers. In
addition, considering the nascent state of industry development at that time, the project design also
sought to increase the capacity of project developers to ensure the project remained relevant.

68.     The project risk assessment appropriately focused on the factors that could negatively
affect outcomes, but some implementation arrangements were not fully addressed at entry.
The motivation for the risk assessment and ratings at entry were premised on the expectation that
the DBSA, as host of the ISU, was well placed to address implementation risks. The motivation to
use the DBSA’s financial management and procurement expertise was essentially sound; however,
the adequacy of these implementation arrangements and the provision of adequate human resource
capacity were not addressed properly until project implementation began and restructurings were
needed to ensure continued progress and relevance. Another shortcoming was that administrative
and operating costs should have been included in the Grant Agreement budget, as they had been in
the PAD.

69.     The PAD results framework provided adequate indicators for M&E, although some
indicators could have been better aligned. Indicators selected for M&E of the project’s
implementation, as well as progress toward the implementation of SWH and REPG projects and
toward the government’s REWP target were mostly adequate. Although some of the outcome
indicators were not quantitatively defined (e.g., industry codes and standards adopted), it could be
argued that such a qualitative design lends itself well to flexible implementation of a TA project in
a quickly changing environment. The indicators for power generation and CO2 emissions avoided
were not proportionate to each other, suggesting a possible error in alignment.

   (b) Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Satisfactory

70.     The World Bank’s quality of supervision of project implementation is rated as Satisfactory.
Despite limited resources for implementation support of GEF stand-alone operations and the hands-
on role required to support implementation of TA activities, the Bank team focused closely on the
project’s development impact throughout the implementation period. The team regularly and
consistently engaged with the government on its priorities (e.g., expanding the project’s focus from
commercial SWH systems to all SWH systems, including those installed in the residential sector);
by fostering resilience in the face of a fast-changing policy environment (e.g., re-allocating the
budget to provide more support for MG beneficiaries and providing for “real-time” specialist
support to the DoE); and by facilitating flexibility (e.g., extending the project closing date to allow
for the completion of contracted MG activities).

71.    The World Bank exercised its fiduciary duties in a timely manner, and regularly
communicated with and provided strong client-focused implementation support for the DoE
and the DBSA. The Bank’s inputs were primarily in the form of regular implementation support
missions, Aide Memoires, “no objection” processes, post-procurement reviews, and financial
management oversight. These inputs focused on maintaining the project’s relevance, procurement
planning, and implementation, as well as improving the disbursement profile and financial reporting.


                                                  21
The World Bank team provided procurement training for ISU team members, and consistently
achieved short turn-around times for “no objection” requests related to the MG program. This
approach contributed greatly to the MG program’s success, while maintaining compliance with
fiduciary requirements.

72.     Members of the World Bank team also led and/or participated in other similar-themed
engagements in the country, providing synergies in implementation and resources. Examples
of these other operations included the Eskom investment projects; the Energy Sector Management
Assisted Program (ESMAP)-supported Low Carbon Growth Strategy Study with the then
Department of Environment, Agriculture and Tourism; ESMAP-supported TA for the South
African Cities Network on Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency; carbon finance cooperation
with the DBSA; and regular interactions with Eskom, CEF, the IDC, and private companies. The
Bank also provided advisory support to South African institutions (e.g., to Eskom on such issues as
the bulk-buying of SWH systems), and supported such initiatives as reviewing the government’s
long-term mitigation scenarios for climate change; developing standard offer incentives for energy
efficiency; advising on managing power shortages; assisting municipalities on RE and energy
efficiency and various carbon credit initiatives, including through the DBSA; and helping the DoE’s
prepare for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change’s 7th Conference of the
Parties in Durban. Feedback from these interactions and the Bank’s coordination with the National
Treasury on these issues provided opportunities for synergies in implementation that proved
beneficial to the project.

   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory

73.     The ICR rates the Bank’s overall performance as Satisfactory. Gaps in the project’s
preparation were mitigated by active engagement during implementation. The project focus was on
maintaining relevance, being flexible in the context of a fast-changing policy environment, and
continually focusing on the PDO/GEO and execution of fiduciary duties. After a slow start, the
project would have most likely disbursed its entire amount had it not been for the final year delay in
appointing a team for ISU coordination at the DBSA, despite several proactive efforts by the
government and the Bank teams to accelerate these processes.

 5.2 Borrower

   (a) Government Performance
       Rating: Highly Satisfactory

74.    The Government of South Africa, represented in the project by the DoE and the Project
Steering Committee (PSC), was engaged and proactive. The Government’s performance is rated as
Highly Satisfactory.

75.     The DoE’s Clean Energy Chief Directorate and New and Renewable Energy
Directorate played a key role in the project’s implementation. The DoE complied with project-
related covenants, including for the transfer of co-funding resources to the project. The government
was highly committed to REMT and achievement of the GEOs, including strong involvement of



                                                 22
DoE officials during implementation (e.g., evaluations and undertaking site visits); policy and
regulatory framework development (e.g., involvement in the processes related to the REWP review,
ISMO Bill development, and socioeconomic assessment of the IRP); and regular communication of
priorities and exchanges with the Bank as the policy environment changed. The DoE played a key
coordination role between ongoing national initiatives and the project. The DoE’s active
engagement in the project enabled it to receive first-hand information on progress, and to provide
informed guidance and inputs to the overall South African policy and regulatory process. This led
to opportunities for value creation, such as the DoE’s decision to apply the modeling of technology
cost curves to the ongoing IRP process, and its facilitation of the project’s participation in the
formulation of strategies to support the national SWH rollout program.

76.      The DoE chaired the PSC, which was a platform for stakeholders to participate in the
project’s oversight functions. The DoE’s role on the REMT Grant Approval Committee ensured
that first-level oversight was in place, thus facilitating the granting of “no objections” by the Bank
for proposed procurement. As PSC Chair, the DoE was able to access information on project
implementation, including potential bottlenecks, and participated actively in the 2011 MTR Report,
which allowed for accelerated implementation of the MG program. The DoE supported the
project’s outreach activities by participating in workshops, making its Web site available as an
additional channel for the dissemination of project-related information, and facilitating linkages
with regional investment promotion agencies for workshops that helped increase the quality and
quantity of MG applications. When required, the DoE helped to remove hurdles to project
implementation and focused on transition arrangements at the project’s close. The DoE was
proactively involved on a number of occasions in addressing human-resource constraints at the ISU
that affected the project, including through discussions with DBSA senior management.

   (b) Implementing Agency’s or Agencies’ Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.    Due to some moderate challenges to implementation that were ultimately resolved, the
ISU’s performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

78.      The ISU coordinated interactions with external stakeholders and partners, hosted
conferences and workshops, generated reports, and disseminated information. The ISU held
regular discussions with the IDC, Eskom, CEF Group, United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP), Danish International Development Agency, GIZ, and other partners to coordinate the
activities related to the RE power generation and SWH programs being implemented or planned by
these institutions at the time, and as part of the project’s MTR in early 2011. The ISU organized
several conferences, including the Renewable Energy Summit and SWH conference, which
facilitated engagement on strategic issues related to the development of South Africa’s RE sector.
In addition, the ISU organized workshops on CSP, SWH, and biogas, and published informative
documents about various aspects of the RE sector, including conference and workshop proceedings.
As part of the MG program, the ISU convened workshops across the country to reach and engage
prospective project developers with the MG application procedures. These workshops significantly
improved the quality of MG applications and, in turn, project disbursements. The larger benefit was
that developers were able to access project pre-investment resources in a timely manner to prepare
their REIPPPP project applications.



                                                 23
79.      Although there were several strengths in the ISU’s performance, certain
implementation shortcomings affected REMT implementation. The DBSA, as the DoE’s
implementing agency, established the ISU reporting internally to its Agencies Unit, to manage the
project’s daily operations. This allowed for the provision of dedicated resources toward the
achievement of the PDO/GEO. With support from the World Bank team, the ISU developed
capacity in following applicable World Bank procurement guidelines, and also worked closely with
the DBSA’s FMU in the compilation of quarterly financial reports. The DBSA’s financial
management and reporting arrangements served the project well, and also facilitated the conduct of
annual financial audits in an effective and timely manner. The ISU’s M&E arrangements were
adequate and informed decision making and resource allocation. However, implementation
challenges encountered included delays in the recruitment and departure of ISU team members at
critical stages, including in the final year of project implementation. Whenever new ISU team
members were appointed, they did their best to get the project on track, and where implementation
issues required attention, the Bank and the DoE actively worked with the DBSA in their resolution.
Despite these efforts, the delay in re-appointing and the subsequent departure of the ISU
coordinator in the final year of the project impacted the full disbursement of the Project and its
high-impact MG program.

80.     The ISU coordinated with the DoE and the World Bank in planning for
implementation following the closing of the GEF project. One of the transitional issues under
discussion was the implementation of the training program for SWH installers following the close
of the GEF project in September 2013. In support of the implementation process of the national
SWH program, and working jointly with the Bank and the DoE, the ISU procured the services of a
consultant to design and deliver training to SWH installers. The first part of this process was the
production of training materials in 2013, which would be followed by the actual training of
installers during 2014. As a way of managing the transition to the post-implementation phase, the
training materials were procured using the Bank’s portion of the co-funding, while the actual
training would be funded from the DoE’s portion after the GEF project closed.

      (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
          Rating: Satisfactory

81.      The ICR rates the overall performance of the Borrower as Satisfactory.

82.     The DoE’s leadership in the project is rated as Highly Satisfactory. Given the many heavy
demands and requirements placed on the availability of the DoE officials who participated in the
project, the DoE’s active involvement, including in operational matters, was exemplary. The DoE
counterpart was responsive and always assisted in the timely resolution of issues. The provision of
budgetary resources illustrated the DoE’s commitment to the project, and senior officials, including
the DoE Director General, were engaged in the project. The ISU’s expeditious implementation of
the MG program, coordination of capacity-building activities, and facilitation of policy and
regulatory frameworks played a major role in advancing the project’s objectives. The DBSA’s role
in financial management and reporting contributed to good governance. Moderate shortcomings
included the initial challenges to aligning procurement processes, which were overcome, and final-
year challenges related to ensuring the ISU had the necessary human resource capacity, which were
overcome but limited the full disbursement of funds.



                                                 24
6.     Lessons Learned

83.     When REMT was first conceptualized in the early 2000s, there was very little activity
related to RE in South Africa. This changed rapidly as the country grappled with generation
capacity constraints and rising concerns about its economy’s carbon intensity, and as the
government balanced its interest in addressing urgent power shortages through new generation and
supply and through DSM, while meeting South Africa’s climate change mitigation goals and
expanding access and services to low-income and unserved populations. The government’s efforts
in this regard were supported by the REMT Project, as well as by several other development
partners. The main overall lessons are:
     - Well-targeted TA activities, although time consuming, can support the enabling
        conditions for scale-up of RE markets. The project focused its TA activities to
        complement ongoing efforts to support the removal of key legal, policy, regulatory, and
        information barriers to implementation. Improving and extending the capacity of relevant
        state-owned institutions helped provide strong leadership in the sector, including support for
        high-impact analytical work, such as the modeling of technology curves, which led to
        favorable allocation for RE in the IRP. 
     - Well-designed pre-financing and financing mechanisms for RE projects are key
        elements of scale-up of RE investments. In the context of South Africa’s well-developed
        financial markets, the government’s preparation of key legal, policy, and regulatory
        frameworks, including well-structured PPAs, was a key success factor. Recommendations
        for fair allocation of risks and a bankable standardized PPA in the early development phase
        of the market provided a basis for the introduction of project financing in the South African
        RE sector. The government’s early preparation was invaluable, and included considerations
        of resource data for site identification (including integration with the grid), identifying the
        importance of identifying potential projects and making pre-investment resources available
        to make potential projects bankable. Targeted TA was a necessary success factor to unlock
        the liquidity in the country’s financial markets to support RE investment.
     - Market-driven development of RE generation is an effective strategy. Rather than
        prescribing financing of only one type of RE technology, REMT focused on the policy,
        regulatory, and commercial conditions required for the overall development of the RE
        market. When the global RE technology marketplace changed in 2009–10, South Africa was
        able to build on the regulatory frameworks developed and adopt a tender mechanism to
        attract investment in RE, although the technologies featured, and the process for procuring
        and financing RE capacity were different from those that were favored at project appraisal.
     - South Africa combined elements of both feed-in-tariffs and competitive tendering in
        the implementation of the REIPPPP, creating a replicable model of RE development
        for other countries. FiTs can be important in initiating (or ‘kick-starting’) RE investments,
        while competition through tendering mechanisms can be an effective strategy to attract such
        investments in a sustainable and cost-effective manner. As the global market changed and
        prices of RE equipment and technology fell, and in line with the constitutional requirement
        for cost-effective procurement, the Government pivoted to a tendering process and the FiTs
        were set as the maximum amount (ceiling) that could be bid through the competitive process.
        The resulting competition put pricing pressure on the submitted bids, which came in below
        the ceiling price. 




                                                 25
   - Flexible project design allows clients to move quickly to adjust to changing global
     market conditions. The project’s support proved timely and relevant, when South Africa
     decided to evolve the regulatory approach developed under REFIT to a tendering process to
     procure new capacity from private-sector entities. This allowed South Africa to benefit from
     extremely favorable market conditions and pricing of RE technology on the global markets.
     In general, governments need flexibility to respond to market conditions.
   - Effective project implementation seeks to harmonize with the country’s broader and
     urgent goals. While Eskom’s SWH implementation was designed primarily as an energy
     DSM initiative, the DoE identified opportunities to scale up energy access through the
     development of the national SWH rollout program. Recognizing the value of having one
     centralized agency to procure and install SWH, the government designated Eskom to install
     SWH systems on its account. This had scale implications for the cost of procuring and
     installing SWH systems, including for local production and job creation as well as for
     expanding access to low-income households. Overall, the project was well harmonized with
     broader national goals, such as securing energy capacity, increasing energy security,
     mitigating climate change, and creating jobs.
     
6.1 Lessons Learned Relevant to Project Preparation
   - Creating dedicated in-house project management capacity by locating the ISU at the
     DoE could have been considered as an option. This option would have required
     establishing appropriate procurement, recruitment, and financial management arrangements.
     Although the provision for the DoE to outsource the project to an implementing agency was
     sensible, it did not guarantee the necessary implementation capacity would be available. The
     choice of an external ISU also meant that project implementation capacity on fiduciary
     issues was not built within the DoE.
   - Attracting and retaining qualified personnel on the basis of fixed-term employment
     contracts can be a challenge for project implementation. As an alternative, the services
     of ISU team members could have been procured through consulting contracts, as was the
     case with at least one of the Project Coordinators. Besides minimizing the disruptions to
     implementation caused by the turnover of personnel experienced during the project’s
     implementation, this approach could have been augmented by the use of market-related
     remuneration structures. The ISU’s organizational design could have provided for at least
     one additional team member (e.g., a second Business Support Manager) to match the ISU’s
     capacity to meet the project’s administrative requirements.

6.2 Lessons Learned Relevant to Project Implementation
   - The engaged and flexible approach demonstrated by the ISU, the DoE, and the World
     Bank during implementation was critical in maintaining the project’s relevance during
     a period of considerable policy change. A significant amount of progress in the project
     was enabled because of the strong cooperation and relationship between the government and
     World Bank counterparts, who communicated regularly and frankly about market evolution
     and needs. Since procurement of consultants was not undertaken directly by the DoE, more
     effort was required to ensure that the resulting policies and frameworks remained aligned
     with the PDO/GEO and national imperatives. Therefore, it was imperative for the ISU to go
     beyond mere contract and project management, and to also have insight into the




                                              26
       implications of the various policy options being explored. The relative positioning and
       status of the ISU within the host organization is also an important factor to consider.
     - Reducing turnaround time for procurement of consultants would have helped the
       project become even more responsive in a fast-moving policy and regulatory
       environment. One way to reduce turnaround time with limited implementation capacity
       would be to procure panels of consultants who could be prequalified to bid for specific
       interventions as required based on generic terms of reference (ToRs), or who are already
       prequalified by the DoE or the DBSA for similar assignments. The contractual assignment
       of consultants would be undertaken on the basis of specific ToRs and proposals from the
       prequalified consultants. This approach could help reduce the turnaround time for consultant
       appointments, without deviating from the principles of competitiveness, efficiency, and
       transparency.
     - Engaging small RE enterprises to participate in the REMT MG program is a time- and
       resource-intensive activity and requires a significant level of ISU support. The high-
       level ISU support required for the MG program and other REMT elements had a
       disproportionate impact on the project’s administrative and operational costs, and placed
       heavy burdens on human resource capacity. Greater allowance for operational support in
       GEF projects that envisage intense engagement with sub-grantees would be helpful.
     - Successful projects require close oversight and engaged supervision with sufficient
       budgets. As a stand-alone operation, the task team was able to provide implementation
       support by leveraging budgets from numerous smaller operations for combined missions etc.
       With limited implementation support resources available for stand-alone GEF operations, it
       is important to consider having one team assigned for related tasks sustained over time.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

84.     The DoE’s comments on the first draft of this ICR are attached in Annex 5 of this report,
and relevant points have been incorporated in this report.

85.    The ISU expressed the view that the “Moderately Satisfactory” rating of its performance
does not adequately reflect the successes achieved. The ISU also requested clarity on a reference to
the performance of new ISU team members. It was clarified that the reference related to all
instances in which new members were appointed throughout the project implementation period, and
was not directed only at the ISU team appointed in the final year of project implementation.




                                                27
                                  Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing11

Project Cost by Components12
                                             Appraisal Estimate          Estimate (USD
              Components                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
                                              (USD millions)                millions)
              Total Baseline Cost
REPG                                                  5.75                       3.64                    tbc
(C)SWH                                               10.70                       0.24                    tbc
Project Management                                    0.85                       0.20                    tbc
               Total Project Costs                   17.30                       4.08                    tbc

Financing
                                                                       Appraisal      Estimate of
                                                    Type of Co-        Estimate        direct co-    Percentage of
               Source of Funds
                                                     financing          (USD           financing      Appraisal
                                                                       millions)    (USD millions)13
Borrower                                       Direct                     2.30             0.51                tbc
Global Environment Facility (GEF)              Direct                     6.00             2.20                tbc
Private sector14                               Direct/Indirect            9.00          1.37/14715             tbc
Total Financing Required                       Direct/Indirect           17.30          4.08/152.8             tbc



11
  The numbers presented in this Annex are estimates based on unaudited financial reports prior to financial close, and
are not deemed reliable. The data presented in the table await confirmation based on review of final audited statements.

12
  The ‘Project Cost by Component’ table reflects unaudited estimates of direct costs borne by the REMT project. It
does not include amounts leveraged indirectly through the Government or indirectly from the market.

13
  These numbers are estimates based on unaudited financial reports prior to financial close, and are not deemed reliable.
The data presented in the table awaits confirmation based on review of final audited statements.

14
   The PAD (Table 2) states that the project was expected to leverage US$ 9 million from the private sector under this
project. The PAD clearly stated that the funds so leveraged could not be committed in the same manner as Government
or donor funds. Amounts leveraged by the private sector include the over $7 billion leveraged for REPG under the
REIPPPP under the first two bidding windows; over $148 million invested in SWH installations; and the $390 fiscal
allocation for the national roll-out of the SWH program.

15
  The PAD (Table 3) also states that the $9 million from the private sector reflects the estimated cost of equipment
installed by the SWH companies under this project. Grants for SWH under the project were curtailed based on the
uptake in the SWH market and resources were focused on MG for REPG. The $1.37 million financing amount cited
above includes only the direct private sector matching contribution through the REMT Matching Grants program. The
$148 million cited in the Financing table above refers to the confirmed investment leveraged for SWH installations.
The numbers above do not reflect the $390 million allocated for implementation of the national rollout of the SWH
program.




                                                          28
                       Annex 2: Outputs and Outcomes by Component

Table 1: Assessment of Outputs and Outcomes—Renewable Energy Power Generation
(REPG)

Baseline       Outputs                        Outcomes
Outcome indicator 1: Government and electricity regulator prepared the legal, policy, and
regulatory frameworks for grid-based renewable energy power, and submitted them for
government approval by December 31, 2009.
No             Received comments on the draft The comments on the draft standardized
frameworks in standardized REFIT PPA.         REFIT PPA, which were drawn up by a law
place                                         firm in 2009, created early market
                                              confidence by private sector project
                                              developers and commercial lenders, and
                                              informed the use of a similar concept for the
                                              government’s flagship RE program—the
                                              REIPPPP.

                NSWHF provided input to                The NSWHF provided input toward the
                national rollout of SWH                implementation of the ZAR4.7-billion SWH
                program.                               rollout program as undertaken by Eskom on
                                                       behalf of the DoE. Examples of such input
                                                       include the concept of a single “bulk-buying”
                                                       agency for SWHs, as well as the expansion
                                                       of the rollout program to low-income
                                                       households by introducing market
                                                       segmentation.

                Revised the REWP report with           The concept of technology learning curves
                significant contribution to            that was applied in the modeling scenarios
                expanding the role of RE in the        for the REWP review was incorporated in
                IRP for the country’s energy           the IRP modeling. The result was a lowering
                development plan                       of the cost of RE technologies over time,
                                                       thus increasing their share of projected new
                                                       generation capacity in the country’s energy
                                                       development plan.

                Reviewed and provided                  Comments received during the ISMO Bill
                comments on the draft ISMO             parliamentary public consultations were
                Bill.                                  reviewed and considered for incorporation
                                                       into the bill. The bill was in the
                                                       parliamentary process at the time of
                                                       compiling this ICR.




                                                  29
Baseline        Outputs                                 Outcomes

No              Made available high-level solar  As a result of the REFIT program that was
information     resource information via the     announced by NERSA in 2009, and
on solar,       project’s Web site.              increased investor interest in the South
biomass,        Created a link on the project’s  African REIPP sector, individual project
hydro           Web site to the interactive wind developers undertook the prospecting of
available       resource map through the         solar and wind power generation sites for
                UNDP–GEF-sponsored South         their own proprietary use. Commercially
                African Wind Energy Program.     available satellite data were used for solar
                                                 resources, while on-site wind masts were
                                                 installed to gather wind energy-related
                                                 resource information. In some cases, the
                                                 project supported these prospecting activities
                                                 through the MG program. As a result, the
                                                 project only had to make available high-level
                                                 resource information via its Web site.
Outcome indicator 3: Assist 10–14 potential renewable energy power generation
developers, and prepare 4–6 pre-feasibility studies.
Very few        Approved MG guidelines (June            Assisted 14 new REPG enterprises.
renewable       2010).                                  Conducted 33 pre-feasibility and feasibility
energy          Updated MG selection criteria           studies, as some of the firms had portfolios
projects by     (May 2011).                             with more than one project.
private
developers      Conducted 5 procurement                 At least 5 of the projects supported via the
                rounds for MG applications.             MG program were selected as preferred
                                                        bidders at the start of the government’s
                Organized a series of back-to-          flagship REIPPPP in 2011 (i.e., Bidding
                back workshops held nationally          Window 1). As of December 2013, one of
                to engage prospective MG                the projects had been successfully
                applicants during the 4th round,        commissioned. The other 4 projects had
                which attracted the most market         achieved financial closure and were in
                response and applications ahead         construction. An additional 4 projects had
                of the first round of the               been notified that they met the requirements
                REIPPPP.                                under Bidding Window 3 of the program.




                                                   30
Baseline        Outputs                           Outcomes
Outcome indicator 4: Increase knowledge about renewable energy in relevant official
agencies and private-sector financial institutions.

Lack of        Organized CSP workshop and             A key outcome of the RE summit was a
renewable      RE summit held in 2009.                resolution for REMT to facilitate the review
energy                                                of South Africa’s 2003 REWP. The CSP
experience                                            workshop led to the establishment of
                                                      SASTELA, an industry association that went
                                                      on to contribute to the development of the
                                                      CSP sector in South Africa.

               REMT hosted SWH workshop,              The SWH workshop, national conference,
               conference, and launch event in        and launch event were instrumental in
               2009 and 2010.                         building capacity, as well as allowing
                                                      stakeholders to engage on the rollout of
                                                      SWH systems. The NSWHF, which evolved
                                                      from this engagement, provided more
                                                      information on different market segments,
                                                      resulting in the expansion of the SWH
                                                      rollout program to low-income households


               Project Web site launched              The project Web site played the role of the
               during the last half of 2010.          “help-desk” envisaged in the PAD. This was
               Project Web site used both to          an efficient way to increase knowledge about
               make available reports about           RE in general, and the MG program in
               REPG and SWH, and as a                 particular. The MG guidelines and detailed
               channel for distributing MG            application forms played a significant role in
               program material (e.g.,                increasing the quality of applications.
               publishing guidelines and
               application forms).




                                                 31
Table 2: Assessment of Outputs and Outcomes—Solar Water Heating (SWH)

Baseline           Outputs                       Outcomes
Outcome indicator 5: Formulate industry standards and codes.
Limited standards  Supported the testing of SWH Eskom’s implementation of the SWH
in place           systems.                      rebate scheme began in late 2008, and it
                                                 facilitated the development of standards in
                                                 conjunction with the DTI.
                                                 Rather than duplicate efforts, the
                                                 REMT Project focused on the
                                                 implementation of the standards.
                                                 Implementation support came in the form
                                                 of assisting SWH suppliers with the
                                                 testing of their systems, which was
                                                 required for participation in the Eskom
                                                 rebate scheme (and later the national
                                                 rollout program).

                    Supported a patent              One company was supported in testing a
                    application for an innovative   number of SWH systems. The same
                    SWH installation system         company was also assisted in applying for
                    through a Performance Grant     the patenting of an innovative “solar
                    (PG).                           ladder,” which had been designed to
                                                    increase the rate at which SWH systems
                                                    could be installed. Several hundred SWH
                                                    systems are being installed annually using
                                                    this innovation.

                    The DoE with REMT               The SWH training program was expected
                    supported the design and        to make available accredited SWH
                    commissioning of a training     installers in support of the implementation
                    program for installers.         of the ZAR4.7-billion national SWH
                                                    rollout program.




                                              32
Baseline           Outputs                        Outcomes
Outcome indicator 6: Install 200 CSWH systems by Year 4.16
40 systems         The DoE designated Eskom       By September 20, 2013, Eskom’s
installed          as an implementer of its SWH implementation of the SWH program had
                   program, with DoE-funded       resulted in the installation of 282,350
                   installations in such areas as SWH systems, comprising 214,444 low-
                   Tshwane and Sol Plaatjie.      pressure (LP) and 67,906 high-pressure
                   The DoE, jointly with REMT, (HP) SWH systems. An additional
                   supported the segmentation of 30,000– 40,000 SWH systems were
                   the SWH market (as part of     installed under contract by Eskom, but
                   the NSWHF).                    funded by the DoE, by the end of
                                                  September 2013. The DoE-funded Eskom
                                                  SWH installations are not included in the
                                                  results reported above.

                                               In addition, based on the allocation of
                                               ZAR4.7 billion over 3 years by the
                                               National Treasury toward the national
                                               SWH rollout program, an estimated
                                               additional 107,000 systems (88,000 LP
                                               and 19,000 HP systems) would be
                                               installed in the first year of the rollout
                                               program alone. Allocation of substantial
                                               fiscal resources, supported by the
                                               designation of Eskom as a “bulk-buying”
                                               agency for SWH systems, contributed to
                                               the attractiveness of investing in local
                                               SWH manufacturing.
Outcome indicator 7: Avoid 85 GWh of power generation by Year 4.
15 GWh avoided     Same as the outputs for     By September 2011, the Eskom
                   Outcome Indicator 6 (i.e.,  implementation of the SWH program,
                   segmentation of the SWH     which started as a pilot in 2008, was
                   market, designation of a    avoiding 60 GWh per year nationally,
                   “bulk-buying” agency, and   according to Eskom estimates. This figure
                   commissioning of a training of power generation avoided is over and
                   program for installers).    above the baseline of 15 GWh of power
                   Related to the NSWHF.       noted in the PAD, which when
                                               considered, would have brought the
                                               cumulative power generation avoided to


16
  It should be noted that although the original indicator baseline was on the basis of commercial SWH systems, this
was amended to include both residential and commercial systems. The actual implementation of South Africa’s SWH
program focused primarily on the residential sector.




                                                         33
Baseline            Outputs                      Outcomes
                                                 75 GWh by 2011 (Year 3 of the GEF
                                                 project).
                                                 The pace of installations rapidly increased
                                                 in the two subsequent years, and Eskom
                                                 reports that by the end of September 2013,
                                                 assuming average savings of 1,250
                                                 kWh/year for LP and 2,050 kWh/year for
                                                 HP systems, at least 407 GWh is
                                                 calculated to have been avoided on an
                                                 annualized basis. When considered along
                                                 with the baseline, this would have brought
                                                 the cumulative power generation avoided
                                                 to 422 GWh by 2013. The calculation
                                                 excludes the power generation avoided
                                                 from the installations funded by the DoE.
Outcome indicator 8: Invest $9 million in CSWH systems by Year 4.
$1.8 million        Same as the outputs for      At least US$138 million, comprising
invested            Outcome Indicator 6 (i.e.,   ZAR962 million (US$97.5 million) and
                    segmentation of the SWH      ZAR404 million (US$40.9 million), had
                    market, designation of a     been invested in LP and HP systems,
                    “bulk-buying” agency, and    respectively, by September 2013.This
                    commissioning of a training  estimate is conservative and is based on
                    program for installers).     Eskom’s installations on its own account;
                    Related to the NSWHF.        it does not count DoE installations under
                                                 contract.
                                                 In addition, the South African National
                                                 Treasury Africa has allocated ZAR4.7
                                                 billion (US$480 million) over 3 years
                                                 (starting from 2012–13) toward the rollout
                                                 of SWH systems.
Outcome indicator 9: Through (C)SWH, avoid 0.75 million tons of CO2 emissions by Year
4.
Negligible          Same as the outputs for      The cumulative target of 0.75 million
                    Outcome Indicator 6 (i.e.,   tons avoided was achieved by project
                    segmentation of the SWH      close.
                    market, designation of a     Based on an emission factor of 0.99
                    “bulk-buying” agency, and    kg/kWh, Eskom reported 60,000 (0.060
                    commissioning of a training  million) CO2 emissions avoided annually
                    program for installers).     by September 2011. Using the 1.07
                                                 kg/kWh used in the PAD, this would
                                                 translate to just over 65,000 tons (0.065
                                                 million tons) annually. By the end of
                                                 September 2013, the Eskom SWH
                                                 program had ramped up implementation
                                                 with just over 435,000 (0.44 million) tons


                                              34
Baseline                  Outputs                                Outcomes
                                                                 avoided using the 1.07 kg/kWh emission
                                                                 factor from the PAD. (This number does
                                                                 not include the additional tons from the
                                                                 DoE-funded Eskom installations or the
                                                                 SWH implemented in the first-year rollout
                                                                 of the national SWH program.)

                                                                 Considering the accelerated pace of
                                                                 installations in 2012 and 2013, on a
                                                                 cumulative basis, the 0.75-million-ton
                                                                 target was highly likely to have been
                                                                 achieved by the end of 2013.17




17
  Given that the scale of installations and the quantum of GWh avoided are several times higher than the target values,
the corresponding CO2 target of 0.75 million tons avoided by Year 4 appears to have been overstated in the original
PAD.



                                                          35
                                            Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analyses

Economic Analysis

Project Appraisal Stage

As outlined in the PAD, an economic analysis of installing demonstration CSWH systems was
conducted. The Eskom tariff applicable at the time was used to indicate the costs that would be
saved by switching to SWH, and therefore was used as a proxy for benefits. The tariff used was
a combination of the “demand charge” and “energy charge ,” resulting in a value of 3.62 US
cents per kWh. To estimate the effect of environmental benefits, in the form of CO2 emission
reductions, the carbon price used was US$4 per ton. This conservative approach indicates the
lower end of the quantum of benefits from CO 2 emission reductions. Naturally, using a higher
carbon price, for instance, the level of the carbon tax proposed by the South African National
Treasury of US$12 per ton, would result in a higher IRR.

The analysis showed an IRR of 14 percent, taking into account only the electricity savings.
With CO2 reductions, the IRR was calculated at 17 percent. A key conclusion was that
reductions in the cost of SWH systems were required to improve their attractiveness. Table 1
provides an outline of the analysis, including the key assumptions.

Table 1: Economic analysis at project appraisal: solar water heating
                                                     South Africa REMT Project
                                           Economic Analysis of Commercial Solar Water Heating
                                                                                                            Net Economic +
                                                                   Net Economic                             Environmental
            Capital Cost        Annual Electricity Savings           Benefits       Annual CO2 Reductions       Benefits
 Year       ZAR    US$              kWh          ZAR      US$      ZAR      US$        tons     ZAR   US$      ZAR      US$
  1     200,000 28,986          115,264       28,816    4,176 (171,184) (24,809)       123    3,401   493 (167,783) (24,316)
  2         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  3         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  4         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  5       5,000    725          115,264       28,816    4,176   23,816    3,452        123    3,401   493   27,217    3,944
  6         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  7         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  8         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  9         -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  10      5,000    725          115,264       28,816    4,176   23,816    3,452        123    3,401   493   27,217    3,944
  11        -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  12        -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  13        -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  14        -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
  15        -      -            115,264       28,816    4,176   28,816    4,176        123    3,401   493   32,217    4,669
IRR                                                                14%      14%                                17%      17%

Notes and Assumptions
System size (liters)                                               10,000
Solar panel need (liters/square meter)                                100
Cost (installed) per panel                                          2,000
Exchange rate (Rand/$)                                               6.90
Electricity cost savings: (US cents/kWh)                             3.62
CO2 emissions (kg per kWh)                                           1.07
Value CO2 ($/ton)                                                    4.00




                                                                            36
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Stage

The same approach followed at project appraisal was used in the analysis, using updated
information. The government’s ZAR4.7-billion (USD0.48-billion) national SWH rollout
program was used as a basis of analysis. This included the introduction of low-pressure (LP)
and high-pressure (HP) SWH systems, to be installed in low-income and middle- to high-
income households, respectively.

Based on a planned LP/HP system split of 80/20, the number of envisaged LP and HP
installations in the first year was 88,000 and 19,000 systems, respectively. With the support
toward the cost of each LP and HP specified at ZAR7,500-00 and ZAR8,500-00, respectively,
the amount expected to be committed was 82 percent of the ZAR1 billion budgeted for the first
year, respectively. This LP/HP split and level of budget commitment was assumed to apply over
the remaining two years of fiscal transfers. The projected capital expenditure was restricted to
the initial 3-year period, although the projection of electricity savings was calculated over a 15-
year period.

The effect of electricity savings was calculated on the basis of a typical municipal residential
electricity tariff in the city of Johannesburg for the year 2012 –13, which was 154.06 SA cents
per kWh (15.61 US cents per kWh). This was considered more appropriate than the average
Eskom tariff of 58.49 SA cents per kWh (5.93 US cents per kWh), which included the effect of
the tariffs related to other customer groups (e.g., commercial and industrial customers). The
2012–13 average Eskom electricity price was escalated by the NERSA-approved 8 percent per
year over five years to 2017 –18, while the average municipal tariffs were escalated by a lower
annual factor (5 percent) during the same period. Thereafter, the averages prices were escalated
by the government’s target annual inflation rate of 6 percent.

Electricity savings per SWH system were calculated on the basis of informat ion sourced from
Eskom.18 According to this information, each HP SWH system was expected to save 1,600–
2,500 kWh, while the corresponding range for an LP SWH system was 1,100–1,400 kWh. For
the purpose of this analysis, these ranges of values were used to calculate average savings per
SWH system type.

To estimate environmental benefits, a carbon price of US$4 per ton was used. This is the same
as the price used at project appraisal, and takes into account prevailing carbon market
conditions (e.g., oversupply of carbon credits due to a drop in global economic activity).

In US dollar terms, the IRR resulting from electricity savings only was 15 percent. The inclusion of
environmental benefits, in the form of the value of CO2 emission reductions, resulted in an IRR of
16 percent. The inclusion of environmental benefits would have resulted in a higher IRR had a
higher carbon price been used.




18
     Eskom Solar Water Heating Rebate Program, November 2010.




                                                      37
Despite the steep increases in electricity prices that South Africa has experienced, an improvement
in the IRR level was still contingent on a reduction of the cost of the SWH systems. The further
evolution of the national SWH rollout program in support of meeting the government’s target of 1
million units, including possible future fiscal allocations, was expected to contribute to the desired
cost reduction.

Table 2 provides an outline of the analysis. The key assumptions are detailed below the table.

Table 2: Economic analysis—ICR stage: solar water heating
                                                                                                                                    Net economic and
            New HP New LP          Capital            Annual electricity           Net economic               Annual CO2              Environmental
FY          systems systems         cost                  savings                      benefits                reductions                 benefits
                              ZAR m     USD m      GWh     ZAR m      USD m      ZAR m      USD m       kT       ZAR m    USD m      ZAR m     USD m
     2013      19329    87627     822         83     149    229.80       23.29      -592         -60   159.60          6     0.64        -585       -59
     2014      31000   140533    1397       142      239    386.24       39.14    -1 010        -102   255.96         10     1.02      -1 000      -101
     2015      34406   155975    1643       166      266    449.25       45.53    -1 194        -121   284.09         11     1.14      -1 183      -120
     2016                         -         -        266    470.81       47.71       471          48   284.09         11     1.14         482        49
     2017                         -         -        266    493.41       50.00       493          50   284.09         11     1.14         505        51
     2018                         -         -        266    517.09       52.40       517          52   284.09         11     1.14         528        54
     2019                         -         -        266    548.13       55.54       548          56   284.09         11     1.14         559        57
     2020                         -         -        266    581.02       58.88       581          59   284.09         11     1.14         592        60
     2021                         -         -        266    615.88       62.41       616          62   284.09         11     1.14         627        64
     2022                         -         -        266    652.84       66.16       653          66   284.09         11     1.14         664        67
     2023                         -         -        266    692.00       70.12       692          70   284.09         11     1.14         703        71
     2024                         -         -        266    733.53       74.33       734          74   284.09         11     1.14         745        75
     2025                         -         -        266    777.55       78.79       778          79   284.09         11     1.14         789        80
     2026                         -         -        266    824.20       83.52       824          84   284.09         11     1.14         835        85
     2027                         -         -        266    873.66       88.53       874          89   284.09         11     1.14         885        90
      IRR                                                                            15%         15%                                      16%       16%



Key assumptions

The years used in the model are based on the envisaged fiscal allocation of the amount of ZAR4.7
billion from over three years. However, the actual disbursement profile would depend on the pace at
which the program was implemented.




                                                                       38
Cost (installed) per LP system - ZAR                               7500
Cost (installed) per HP system - ZAR                               8500
Ave annual savings per LP system (kWh)                             1250
Ave annual savings per HP system (kWh)                             2050
Number of LP systems (planned) 2012-2013                          88000
Number of HP systems (planned) 2012-2013                          19000
Allocated budget: LP systems (2012-2013) - ZAR m                    660
Allocated budget: HP systems (2012-2013) - ZAR m                  161.5
Total allocated budget (2012-2013) - ZAR m                        821.5
Proportion of allocation (2012-2013) - %                           82%
Share of budget (2012-2013) - LP systems                           80%
Share of budget (2012-2013) - HP systems                           20%
Average annual CPI (%)                                              6%
Ave weekly exchange rate (ZAR/USD): 2013 -2014                   9.8683
CO2 factor (kg/kWh)                                                1.07
Value of CO2 (USD/ton)                                                4


                                                    Ave price - Eskom* Ave price - municipality**
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2012/2013                 58.49                   154.06
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2013/2014                 63.17                   161.46
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2014/2015                 68.22                   169.21
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2015/2016                 73.68                   177.33
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2016/2017                 79.57                   185.84
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2017/2018                 85.94                   194.76
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2018/2019                  91.1                   206.45
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2019/2020                 96.57                   218.84
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2020/2021                102.36                   231.97
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2021/2022                 108.5                   245.89
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2022/2023                115.01                   260.64
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2023/2024                121.91                   276.28
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2024/2025                129.22                   292.86
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2025/2026                136.97                   310.43
Electricity cost savings (SA cents/kWh): 2026/2027                145.19                   329.06
* Escalated by 8% per annum for first 5 years, thereafter by annual CPI (6%)
** Escalated by 5% per annum for first 5 years, thereafter by annual CPI (6%)




                                                    39
          Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task team members
               Names                                  Title                            Unit
Lending
Arun Sanghvi                        Now Retired
Xiaodong Wang                       Senior Energy Specialist (TTL)        EASCS
Luiz Maurer                         Lead Industry Specialist              CBDSB
Supervision/ICR
                                    Senior Energy Specialist (TTL from
Karan Capoor                                                              AFTG1
                                    September 2009)
                                    Senior Energy Specialist (TTL until
Xiaodong Wang                                                             EASCS
                                    August 2009)
Edith Ruguru Mwenda                 Senior Counsel                        LEGAM
Tandile Gugu Zizile Msiwa           Financial Management Specialist       AFTME
Chitambala John Sikazwe             Procurement Specialist                AFTPE
Jose C. Janeiro                     Senior Finance Officer                CTRLA
Christiaan Johannes Nieuwoudt       Finance Officer                       CTRLA
George Ferreira Da Silva            Finance Analyst                       CTRLA
Moeketsi Enos Thobela               Consultant                            AFTG1
David Vilar Ferrenbach              Energy Specialist                     AFTG2
Maria Meer                          Program Assistant                     AFTG2

   (b) Staff time and cost

               Fiscal years                                                USD thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                              4.85                            20.28
  FY02                                              1.45                            68.95
  FY03                                              9.31                            71.97
  FY04                                              4.95                            71.92
  FY05                                              6.18                            75.31
  FY06                                              7.52                            61.53
  FY07                                              7.58                            41.01
                                Total:             41.84                           410.97
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                              5.22                            62.35
  FY09                                              3.51                            15.50
  FY10                                              4.76                            33.17
  FY11                                             15.99                            80.12
  FY12                                             11.54                            43.45
  FY13                                              8.36                            41.80
  FY14                                              3.37                            22.24
                                Total              52.75                           298.63


                                                 40
              Annex 5: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

After the compilation of the first draft of the ICR, the lead ICR author met with the DoE Director of
New and Renewable Energy to discuss the ICR in detail. The resulting comments are summarized
in this annex. The comments are categorized according to the corresponding sections of the main
body of this ICR.

Section 2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

Adequacy of participatory processes

As part of resolving the inclusion of black economic empowerment as an evaluation criterion in
procurement processes, the Bank and the DoE agreed that 17 percent of project costs would be
allocated to the procurement of local services and goods. This provision excluded the capacity-
building and implementation support activities, which were funded fully by the Bank. (During 2011,
a decision was made for the DoE to fully fund the implementation support activities in the period
remaining before the project’s closing date.)

Section 2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

Utilization

In addition to streamlining the MG selection criteria and frequent calls for applications, the
workshops on the MG application process that were facilitated by the Project Coordinator also
contributed to increasing the quality and quantity of MG applications.

The substantial interest in the capacity-building workshops convened by the project—as evidenced
by high attendance figures—indicated the extent to which the project contributed to the
dissemination of knowledge about RE.

Section 2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transitional arrangements to post-completion

The process of determining how the DoE funds remaining after the project’s closing date could be
applied in supporting outstanding activities was underway. It was confirmed that these activities
included the implementation of a training program for SWH installers, the procurement of a solar
energy specialist to provide support directly to the DoE, and possibly, support toward the
implementation of the RE small projects program launched by the DoE in the second half of 2013.

Section 2.5 Achievement of PDO and GEO

Outcome Indicator 1: Government and electricity regulators prepared the legal, policy, and
regulatory frameworks for grid-based renewable energy power, and submitted them for
government approval by December 31, 2009.




                                                 41
The ICR should highlight the market segmentation concept that was presented as part of the
National Solar Water Heating Framework (NSWHF). This was due to the enabling role it played in
broadening the SWH rollout program, such as the inclusion of low-income households.

The ICR should highlight that the REMT Project had contributed its share to the development of the
ISMO Bill, and that further progress was dependent on the parliamentary process.

Outcome Indicator 2: Renewable energy resource database is available.

The ICR should also highlight that a solar resource map could have been created to support the
development of the nascent rooftop solar PV the market. This would be in addition to facilitating
the rollout of SWH systems nationally. This also could have assisted with government planning, for
instance, in support of the implementation of a management system for environment impact
assessments.

Outcome Indicator 4: Knowledge about renewable energy increases in relevant official
agencies and private-sector financial institutions.

Although not documented in the applicable workshop report, the contribution of the project-
sponsored CSP Industrial Potential Workshop to the establishment of the CSP industry association
(SASTELA) should be highlighted, because SASTELA subsequently played a key role in
developing the CSP sector in South Africa.

Outcome Indicator 8: US$9 million is invested in CSWH systems.

The project contributed indirectly to SWH investments by sponsoring the development of the
NSWHF. The NSWHF provided the basis for the national rollout of SWH systems, which received
ZAR4.7 billion from the National Treasury.

Outcome Indicator 9: CO2 emissions avoided through CSWH systems.

The project contributed indirectly to the CO2 emission reductions related to SWH investments by
sponsoring the development of the NSWHF. The NSWHF provided the basis for the national
rollout of SWH systems, which received ZAR4.7 billion from the National Treasury.

Section 4 Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Government ownership/commitment

The ICR should also highlight the DoE’s commitment by ensuring that the institutional
arrangements required to support the national SWH rollout program are in place. These included
the designation of an implementing agency, the envisaged use of PPP instruments, such as
concessions to secure SWH investments, as well as the rollout of a training program for SWH
installers.




                                               42
Section 5.2.a Government performance

Adequacy of beneficiary/stakeholder consultations and involvement

The ICR should mention the role played by the DoE in facilitating linkages with regional
investment promotion agencies in support of the MG program. These were helpful in convening the
workshops that the Project Coordinator used as a platform to share detailed information on the MG
application process with prospective beneficiaries.

Relationships and coordination with donors/partners/stakeholders

Same as above

Adequacy of transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities

The implementation arrangements were in the process of being finalized.

Section 5.2.b Implementing Agency’s or Agencies’ Performance

Adequacy of transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities

The transition arrangements were in the process of being finalized.




                                                 43
                         Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Grant Agreement between the Bank and the DoE
Memorandum of Understanding between the DBSA and the DoE
Midterm Review Report (2011)
Restructuring letters exchanged between the Bank and the DoE
The Bank’s Aide Mémoires
Implementation Supervision Reports
Interim Financial Reports
Audited Annual Financial Statements of the Project
Presentation on the Eskom Solar Water Heating Rebate Scheme
DoE–Eskom Revised SWH Contract Model
DoE–Eskom SWH Rollout Dashboard




                                         44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 35553
                                                                   20 °                                                                                                      25 °
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZIMBABWE
                          SOUTH AFRICA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NP341


       RENEWABLE ENERGY MARKET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NP342

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DC34                                          MOZAMBIQUE
        TRANSFORMATION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NP343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NP351               NP344

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CBDMA4

                                                                                                                                 BOTSWANA                                                                                                                                     DC35                                   NP331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NP362
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORTHERNNP352
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NP353      NP332

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DC33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NP367
                     PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROVINCE                           PolokwaneNP333
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (Pietersburg)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NP334

                     NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                                      DC36                                  NP354

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NP355                                       CBDC4
          NCDMA08    DISTRICT MANAGEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                         NP361
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NP365
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NP03A3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NP04A1
                     AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NP364
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CBLC5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NP03A2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CBDMA3
                     LOCAL MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CBDC3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CBLC6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NP366                                                                     CBDMA4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NW375                                                     CBLC3
                     DISTRICT COUNCILS                                                                                                                                                               NW385                                    NW371               MP316                           MPDMA32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CBLC4                                                                                                                25 °
                     CROSS-BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                       NWDMA37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MPDMA31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MP321
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DC32
                     DISTRICT COUNCIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                            NW372          DC37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GT02b1 MP315                                                                                 MP322
                                                                                                                                                                                                     NW373         Tshwane                                                                                    Nelspruit
          Durban     METROPOLITAN DISTRICT                                                                                                   NW395
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mmabatho    NW374
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pretoria                       MP313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MP314
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MPDMA32              MP324
                                                                                                                                                                                                   GTDMA41                    CBDC2
                     COUNCIL
                                                                                                                                                                       NW381
                                                                                                                                                                              NW383
                                                                                                                                                                                                         GT411    GAUTENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CBLC2                                     MPUMALANGA MP323
                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                            NW384DC38            GT412
                                                                                                                                                                                                                City of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Johannesburg MP312                                         DC31                 MP301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MPDMA32
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Johannesburg East Rand MP311
                     INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                                             NW401   CBDC8          Ekurhuleni
                                                                                                                                                                     NORTH WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                          GT414
                      BOUNDARIES                                                                                                              NW391                                                                      GT423
                                                                                                                                                           DC39                                       CBLC8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DC40
                                                                                                                                                                                                             GT421
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MP307
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DC42                                          MP302
                                                                                                                                                                             NW382
                                                                           NC081
                                                                                                                                                                  NW392                  NW403
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NW402              GT422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DC30                        SWAZILAND
                                                                                                                     NCDMACB1                                                                                               MP306
          0     50       100      150     200       250                                                                                                                                                          FS204                  MP305
                                                                                                                                           NW1a1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MP303
                                                                                                                                 CBDC1
                        KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                             NW393             NW404
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DC20                    FS205
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MP304
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KZDMA27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KZ271
                                                                                                NCDMA08                                                                                                                                   FS203
                                                                                                                                                              NW394
                                                                                                                                NC01B1     CBLC1
                                                                                                                                                                                    NW396                FS185                                                                                                KZ261           KZ262              DC27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FS201                                                                  KZ253                                   KZ272
                                                                                                                                                                     CBLC7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FS193
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FS195
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KZ252   DC25                DC26                      KZDMA27
                                                                                                                                            NC086                                                                  FS184                                                                                      KZ263                KZ265
                                                                                                DC8
                           NAMIBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                               FS183                                                                                                                                         KZ273
                                                                                                                                                     NCDMA09         NC093                                                                            DC19                                  KZ254
                                                                                                                                 NC085                      DC9                                      DC18                                                         FS194
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KZ241

                                                                                                                                                                                                         FREE STATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KZ242           KZ266             KZ274
                                                                                                                                                            NC092
                                                                                                                                                                                    FS182
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FS192
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FSDMA19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KZ232
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DC24                        Ulundi KZDMA27

                                                                                     NC082
                                                                                                NC083
                                                                                                                                                           Kimberley                                       FS181
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bloemfontein
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FS191
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KWAZULU-NATAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KZ233   KZ285                                      KZ281
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KZ275

                                                                                                                                                                NC091                                                                                                    KZ235                                 KZ286            KZ283
                                                                                                                     NCDMA07                                                                                                                                                                        KZ244
                NC061
                                                                                                       NC084                                                                                                                                                               DC23         KZ234                          DC28          KZ282
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KZ284
                                                                                                                                                    NC078                                                                  FS173                                                KZ236                  KZ245
                                                                           NCDMA06                                                                                                                         FS172                                            KZDMA23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KZ223
                                                           NC067
                                                                                                                                                                                                               DC17                                                                                             KZ294 KZ291
                                                                                                                         NC077                                         FS161                                                                                                              KZDMA22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KZ221             DC29
                               NC062                                          NORTHERN CAPE                                                        NC076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FS171
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LESOTHO                                     KZ224
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KZ222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DC22        KZ293     KZ292

                                                                                                                                                                                       DC16                                                               KZDMA43         DC21                KZ225

                                                                                                                  NCDMA06                                                                    FS162
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KZ5a2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KZ5a1 KZ227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KZ226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Durban
                                                          NCDMA06
                                                                                                                                                             NC075                                             FS163                 ECDMA44                            KZ5a4
 30 °                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KZ5a5                                                                   30 °
                                                             DC6                                                                     DC7                                                                                                                          KZ5a3         DC44               KZ211
                                  NC064                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EC05b1               KZ212
                                                                                                                NC074                                                                                                                                                                        KZ213
                                                                                                                                                      NC073                                      ECDMA14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DC44                   KZ214    DC21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EC05b2
                                                                                                                                                                             NC072
                                                                                                                                                                                                 EC144
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DC14            EC142
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KZ215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EC141               EC152                   KZ216
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EC151
                                          WCDMA01                                                                                                                                                                  EC143
                                                                     NC065                                                                                                                                                                                  EC156
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EC153
                                                                                                                                   NC071                                                                                              EC138
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DC15
                                                                                                                                                                                                         EC133
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EC136                                  EC155 EC154
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EC137
        AT L A N T I C                          WC011
                                                                                               NC066                                                                                            EC132    DC13                                          EC157
                                                                                                                                           WCDMA05                               EC131                                             EC135
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EC134
         OCEAN                                      DC1              WCDMA02                                                                                 EC101
                                                                                                                                                                                             ECDMA13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EC121

                                                                                                                                                                                             EASTERN CAPE
                                            WCDMA01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EC122
                                                  WC012
                                                                                                                        WC053                                                                  EC128  EC124                                                                                                        INDIAN OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DC12           EC123
                                                                                                                                             ECDMA10                                 EC102                     EC127
                                                  WC013                                                                                                                                                                           Bisho
                                                                     WCDMA02                           DC5       WC052
                                                                                                                                                                  EC103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EC125
                                          WC014                                              WC051
                                                                                                                                                            DC10                                       EC104             EC126
                                                            WC022     DC2                                                                                                            EC106
                                   WCDMA01        WC015                                                                                               EC107

                                                                      WESTERN CAPE
                                                                               WC041
                                                                                                                 WC045
                                                                                                                                 WCDMA04
                                                                                                                                                                       ECDMA10                              EC105

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by the
                                        Cape Town       WC023 WC025
                                                                           WC026
                                                                                                               DC4                                   EC109                            Nelson                                                                                                                            Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                        WC044 WC048 WC047                              EC108
                                                          WC024                                                WC043                                                                  Mandela                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                           Cape                                                  WC042
                                           Town                   WC031            WC034                                                                                                                                                                                                                                and any other information shown on
                                                                          DC3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                                   WC032
                                                                             WC033
                                                                                     WCDMA03                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        any endorsement or acceptance of
15 °                                                                          20 °                                                                                        25 °                                                                                                     30 °                                 such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JUNE 2007
