Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repon No. 7771
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
(LOAN 1707-IND/CREDIT 919-IND
MAY 18, 1989
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resldcted distdbutlon and may be used by redplnts only In the pefonnance of
their officall duties. Its contents may not othewise be discosed witbou World Bnk au&hodrhdk



or  omCUL t= ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washtton. D C. 20433
US A.
Oike of DuKtarGswi
Hay 18, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Indonesia Transmigration
II Proiect (Loan 1707/Credit 919-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on Indonesia Transmigration II Project
(Loan 1707/Credit 919-IND)" prepared by the Government of Indonesia,
with an overview memorandum prepared by the Asia Regionsl Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation
Department has not been made.
Attacbment
This document has a restricted ditibution sand may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoziution.



iFOR OF0IL UsE ONLY
PROJK t CHMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSNIGTION II PROJECT
(LOAN 1707-IND/CREDIT 919-IND)
Table of Contents
Pasr No.
Basic Data Sheet...................... ii
Evaluation   ......  .............................. lIt
Overview                   ............ .vl
PROJECT CmH TON  TPI
1* SUMhARY AND CONCLUSIONSe.................... ............e  . 1
3. PROJECT FORMULATION ............................... .......13
4. PROJECT ]I.PmENTATION .......................o............17
5& AGRICULTURAL IPACTo ..................... . ..........e.. .46
6.  OFF FAIN 6
7* PROJECT COSTS........................b...............o.6
8>.  DISEURSDIENTS. ............*... .*   ....... .......... .68
9.  ECONOMIC IMPACT ee....e.......................... *70
10.  INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT ........................ 81
.11.  SPECIALISUS........... 8
APPMNDIX I..............8
TABLE Is TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
TABLE IIs PCR ESTIMATION OF ERR
1/ This La Volume I (Main Report) of the Project Completion Report prepared
by  consultants  on behalf of the Ministry  of  Transmigration.   It
incorporates the addenda to that Main Report. Volume II (Annexes) has
not been presented.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



~~~~~~~~~~~ -1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IT PROJECT (LOAN 1707-IND/CREDIT 919-IND)
PROIECT COMPLETION REpORT
Preface
Thls is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Indonesia -
Transmigration II Project for which a Loan 1707-IND of US$90 million and a
Credit 919-IND of US$67 million were approved on May 29, 1979, totalling US$157
million. The project was completed on December 31, 1986. Total disbursements
from the loan and credit were US$105.6 million, and total cancellations were of
US$51.4 million.
This PCR was prepared by the Bureau of Planning, Ministry of
Transmigration. In addition, a brief evaluation summary was prepared by the
staff of Country Department 5, Asia Region.
This PUR has been read by UzU.- Tne draft report was sent to the
Borrower on February 9 for comments; however, no comments were received.



- li -
LRoJEeF CO""o -N REPORT
INDONESIA - TRASNaCIATION tI PkECT (L0. 1707-INDICRDIT 919-IND)
BAIc DATA SUET
KEU PROJECT DATA
Apprateil          Actual or       Actual       of
expectation     current eatiato  appraisal aetimete
Pro1ect conto tUSS millon)                               242.0             140,1 /               60
Los      t asmotS         lion                           I *               I *  C
Dato Board aprovl                                            -          05129/79
Date effeet-iffenesamI                                       -          10W104
Date nlwsinal comuonens  mplted _t                       03483             04/17
Provert ont   CO   td1                                     I J
Clodns date                                              12/85             07/87
Ec n mc   rt s ao t  return   (S)_ _ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ _ __            3=___ _ __ _23__ _ __ _ _- _
inanneal ratn ot return                                   c.an  .           n ..
Aernme  rate or  =e                                                         Poor
NWitne odrt be Wticartes (venr ....)                    30.000 /c         19.631                65 /d
CUIWIATIV bI5SWRSEIFYS
mo      FY1      MF2      FY83    FY84      F83    M6         m7
APPraisal a stiets (US$ n)                0.3    19.5    52.0    87.0   115.0   152.0   157.0   157.0
Actunl (US; a)                              -     13.5    3                  63.1       74    8
Actuls *  oati eat                  _      0       69       58       57      S5       49       56       67
Dat of itnal di bursemnt
Prtne£pa1 rad to 08731t87s U9S15.43 million
MISSION DATA
Date  No. of tan-days   Spetalizationa  PerformaNe                      Ty" of
Nistaon          (r)   persons  in field    *Presented -/          retin  /t    rend      nrobla  lb
11-12/77      6         21
ApprdEP              02/78       8
Apprail Fol101I   07n78          6         2U
ApprMsl F1 ollow-Up   10175      z
Ston   1             06/79       3         29          a.b.c             2            1           T
pe2$p      1       08/60       1       n.e.             b              2                        T_  S
Sup  don            31                                  bD.              3            3
Eurttn4        09/81      4          4*bo3                                      ITod 
to D    5  0 9                                               2 81  aI -e  2  1_  7Y1
_~~~~g~                     _---                                     _ _____ _
S en6   0682        4         21         a*b.c.-             3            2         OH?
Siap.svitdoc  7      03183       3          7           b.c               3_          2          ONt
&ans0isi83                 4      nt.&.         a, Ele                2____     _______
Supervision  9      o8s34                a.&           ;.                3            I           7a1
i  Supuo  10  02/85      3         14          *ab.o              3            2          711
I  Sueiion 11      M08M          3          4          a*bo               3                       T
|Suervi ion IZ       04/88       *       nao.           *c                                        IN
eisiHon, 13        IIin        I       n.e                                                      T N
OYUU PROJEt DATA
=lorrover                     lepuIlce of Indonsia
Elatutina asenca     * INIStrv of tr iaretion
is "er 0o  borrower           ADril 1 - tIercn 31
Nam of currencF (abbreviation)            Rupiah (ft)
Apria  n ar avera                          USd1.06 -    625 
lot nte    ro-enina ,ears e e              US91.00 -
C e-tion  r  aver"                         USS8.00 -
ollow-on projects
11_                              Trat ir tion tI    Tranmittil               TrInVretin V
l cr ditt       f      n mber    I       IID            La g     D           L       ENND
Cie   tm        t (USi dllton)  9     /                -     /               97.0 1
Date bard sa1                     Qi280243                                   061lli85
m ajor Iaplemntation difficulttio necstated substantial rev lai  of ths project ti 1982, ebich reulted
In ren isd stimted project cost of US$235.0
b  Credit of US$67 million an  loan of US$ 90 sillion.   e project alO reetivd on EC spec1al credt of
US$5.5 millon.
Ic  US836 milln of tbe loan wa cneld on May 21. 1986. There en  an andiebursad smat of USS15.4
millio of the lon hieb ICU canceled on 07107/87.
Reduced to 20,000 darin  1982 reviiote  - see footnote L .
le  ins   4bt Pe rnt of revitd benteic1arite  - e*e footnote .L.
a - egrtculturisi  b - egriculturel econsat; c - anthropologist? d - livestock speiaist;   - engtinr.
t * problem-tree or mior problem; 2 - soderete problem; end 3 - mjor problem.
I * mproatng; 2   stattoneryg 3 - deteriorating.
iP - financial; N esaageral; T - technical; P * politicall nd 0 . other.
For the Tranmigration Program Preparation component (SFS8 80) only).
US$7.0 mllion canceld on 06/87 ftrom orita loan of US$101.0 million.
U5810.0 mlUIon canceled on 06/87 trom oritinl loan of US$63.3 mllion.
7   US$63.0 million cenceled on 06/87 from oritgil loan of 058160.0  illon.



- iii -
INDONIESIA
TRSMIGRATION II PROJECT (LOAN 1707-IND/CREDIT 919-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Intro_duct 4on
1.         As a major step in the implementation of its transmigration program
in the third Five-Year Plan, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) requested Bank
Group assistance to resettle families from Java and Bali on four sites along the
Trans-Sumatran Highway in the province of Jambi and for assistance to upgrade
the condition of families already settled at one other site in the area. The
regional framework for development along the Trans-Sumatran Highway was outlined
in the South Sumatra Regional Study carried out by Bonn University and
Robert R. Nathan Associates. The United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry
complemented the regional study with detailed resource investigations, identi-
fication of project sites, and the preparation of outline physical plans for
development.  The Dirsctorate General of Transmigration (DGT), in the then
Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration (now the Ministry of Transmigration) and
the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works
prepared sites plans, implewentation schedules and bidding documents for the
project sites. The project was appraised in February and July 1978. The Loan
and Credit Agreements were signed    June 1, 1979 and became effective
October 4, 1979. The Loan/Credit closed December 31, 1986. The final
disbursement was US$105.6 million and an amount totalling US$51.4 million was
cancelled.
Obiectives
2.         The project's objective was to launch a land development program
along the Trans-Sumatran Highway to alleviate poverty and promote regional
development by resettling about 30,000 families from impoverished areas of Java
and Bali, as well as from Sumatra, on four sites in the p_zvince of Jambi
(Sumatra) and upgrade the living conditions of 4,000 transmigrant families who
had been previously settled in the same area. The project provided physical
infrastructure, land clearing, agricultural inputs and services, community
facilities and technical assistance to help the Government in implementing the
project and developing the transmigration program.



- iv -
Imglementation Experience
3.         The settlement component of the project encountered several start-up
problems, due mainly to the shortage of available land, while the upgrading
program for one site was delayed due, in part, to lack of detail in the Staff
Appraisal Report on actions to be taken. As a result, and also because of
procurement delays which led to slower disbursements and cost overruns, the
project was reformulated and procurement proced res were amended. Support for
village cooperative development was less than satisfactory. There were serious
delays in construction of cooperative facilities and non-provision of facilities
due to budget problems. In addition cooperatives lacked access to needed credit
for operation and expansion, and management and direction were poor.
Results
4.         Information available suggests that, compared to expectations,
agricultural development has been less than anticipated though transmigrants
household incomes levels in all sites exceeded appraisal expectations. Due to
allocation of implementation responsibility amongst various line agencies, no
ingle entity was responsible for all aspects of implementation. Poor inter-
agency coordination and a lack of staff, authority or budgets to carry out tasks
led to managerial problems. However, tLa project did succeed in developing
improved standards for site screening and evaluation and in creating viable
regional development centers.
Sustainability
5.         There have been three Bank supported Transmigration Projects since
the commencement of the Transmigration II Project: Transmigration III, IV, and V
projects (Table 1); which are to be followed by the Transmigration Second Stage
Development Project (TSSDP), in the lending program for FY89.1  While the three
ongoing projects were started before the completion of Transmigration II, some
of the more obvious issues and lessons emerging during the supervision of this
project were incorporated either at the design stage or during reviews after
inception of these projects. An addendum (by GOI) to the PCR attempts to give
an item by item comment of the relevance of the lessons learned on the ongoing
and proposed projects in the Transmigration Sectcr. Due to the problem of
shortage of available land, the next Bank- supported project, Transmigration
III, was to provide technical support to the overall transmigration site
selection and evaluation program, on the proviso that future upland settlement
was confined to sites selected under improved procedures. Under the
Transmigration III (SFSE 83) planning program, better reconnaissance was
initiated to exclude unsuitable sites early in the planning process. The
Transmigration V Project was also gearad to improving settlement planning.
1/    Other Bank-supported projects in support of transmigration
include two swamp reclamation projects and two livestock projects
(one financed by IFAD and administered by the Bank and the other
cofinanced with IFAD).



6.         On the issue of the sustainability of the upland food crop farm
model, expanded terms of reference were instituted to permit investigattion of a
larger number of farm mod&ls under the SFSE 83 settlement planning program
(SFSE 83) of the Transmigration III Project, while the Transmigration V Project
established detailed procedures for planning tree crop and other types of farm
models.sites. The Transmigration IV Project included 2.0 ha of tree crops per
family in addition to the food crop land. The proposed TSSDP would focus on
improvA.ng incomes of existing settlers by the introduction of tree and other
cash *.rops based on site specific studies on soils, markets and other mitigating
factors to facilitate the access to credit and inputs and also safeguard the
environment. Another issue which is raised by the PCR but not listed under
lessons learned is the issue of inter-agency Coordination, in addition to the
(listed) need to strengthening MOT's managing and coordinating role of the
overall program. To tackle this issue, the Transmigration IV Project included
components to improve the coordination of Bank-assisted projects and to
facilitate implementation of the overall transmigration program. Studies
financed under the Transmigration V Project include a review of the
organizational structure of MOT in relation to the requirements of the next
Repelita (V) transmigration program, 'hile the proposed TSSDP would include
components to strengthen the planning and programming capabilities of MOT for
second-stage developments, and mechanisms to improve inter-agency coordination.
Findings and Lessons
7.       Thi major lessons learned from the project are the following:
i)     the application of a standard upland food crop development model
does not take sufficient account of individual site variations
in topography, land conditions and accessibility. Greater
flexibility needs to be adopted in the application of farm
models (ideally site specific) in upland transmigration areas;
ii)    rather than being fosid into identifying increasingly marginal
areas for transmigration settlement, better use should be made
of existing areas through second stage developmeat programs;
iii)   if cattle programs are to realize their expected benefits,
measures to promote draft technology should be included in
project design;
iv)    given the importance of small livestock to settler welfare,
consideration should be given to promoting livestock for non-
draft purposes in future projects;
v)     village cooperatives (KUD) will not function as intended,
namely, as the engine for economic development within
transmigration areas, unless adequate technical and financial
assistance is provided;
vi)   the use of motivators as catalysts to transmigration site
development is worthy of replication in other projects;



- vi -
vii)   tree crops are perceived by settlers to offer a more viable
source of agricultural income than food crops and should be
included as part of input packages;
viii) the Ministry of Transmigration will need to be strengthened,
particularly at provincial and regional levels, if it is to
successfully meet its future responsibilities;
ix)    monitoring arrangements for collecting site level agricultural
and socio-economic data in a regular and systematic manner must
be instituted in future projects, if project impact is to be
mesured with the desired degree of confidence.



- vii -
INDONESIA
TRASMIGRATIONl II PROJEC-T (LOAN 1707-IND/CREDIT 219-1ND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANK OVERVIEW
INTRODUCTION
1.       The Government of Indonesia (GOI), through the Bureau of Planning (BOP)
of the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) with assistance from the consultants
(Planars/ENEX) employed under the Transmigration IV Peoject, has prepared a
comprehensive Project Completion Report (PCR) on the above project. The report,
a copy of which is attached, gives the background to the project and analyses
project impacts, while noting several problems which arose during project
implementation. The region agrees with its major findings. This memorandum
highlights the more important findir&s of the PCR. The basic data sheet for tha
PCR is presented in Table 1. It should be noted that this project was only part
of a larger GOI transmigration program. While the PCR gives insights into the
design and implementation the Transmigration II Project, perhaDs, a more
effective assessment would be a program wide review as done by the Bank's 1986
Indonesia Transmigration Sector Review (Report No. 6508-IND).
OBJECTIVES
2.       The project was the second Bank-assisted project within GOI's overall
trassmigration program which began at the early part of this century.  The
project which was intended as a model for the third five-year developme.nt
(Repelita III, 1979-84) transmigration program, was appraised by the Bank in
1978 after preparation by Bonn University and Robert R. Nathan Associates with
detailed inputs provided by the United Kingdom Overseas Development Ministry
(ODM). Site plans implementation schedules and bidding documents for the
project sites were prepared by the Directorate General of Transmigration in the
then Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration and the Directorate of General
Highways in the Ministry of Public Works. It was appraised after preliminary
development plans had been prepared but before completion of detailed village
designs. The credit (919-IND - US$67 million) and loan (1707-IND - US$90
million) agreements were approved by the Board on May 29, 1979, signed on
June 1, 19792 and became effective on October 4, 1979. The project was expected
2/    The project also received an EEC Special Credit of US$5.5
million.



-viii -
to be completed by March 31, 1985 but was extended to December 31, 1986. The
loar closed on July 7, 1987, at which time about US$15.4 million of the loan was
cancelled.3
3.       The project was intended to resettle about 30,000 families mainly from
Java and Bali on four sites along the new Trans-Sumatra highway in Jambi
province and to upgrade the condition of about 4,000 families in an existing
settlement (Singkut) in the area. Project investments were to cover land
clearing, site preparation, infrastructure (including community facilities),
agricultural support services, and technical assistance to the Junior Minister
of Transmigration to assist in the coordination of the overall program. Each
transmigrant family was to receive 3.5 ha of land of which about 2.0 ha (of
slope 0-8%) would be suitable food crop and about 1.5 ha (8-15% slope) suitable
for tree crops. Of the allocated 3.5 ba, 1.25 ha of the food cropping land was
to be cleared by the project - 0.25 ha for house and home garden, and 1.0 ha for
food crops (Land Use (LU) I) leaving 2.5 ha (LU II) in forest to be developed by
the transmigrant under a second stage development with GOI assistance. In
addition, each transmigrant family received a small house, implements and
subsistence food supplies for one year, limited input supply for three years and
cattle for draft power (one head for about 4 families).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.       Unlike the first Bank assisted tranmaigration project (implemented by a
Project Management Unit with considerable financial autonomy), the project was
implemented under the same instituti-nial arrangements as the GOI program.
Agriculture development under the project was based on a standard model which
emphasized food crop production, in contrast to the partially tree-crop based
system of the Transmigration I project.
5.       Refo D lation.  The settlement component of the project encountered
several start-up problems, due mainly to shortage of suitable land, while the
upgradinS program for Singkut was delayed due, in part, to lack of detail in the
SAR about actions to be taken.4   As mentioned in para. 2 above, the project was
appraised after preliminary development plans had been prepared but before
completion of detailed village plans. Detailed site investigations (mapping) in
the original project area revealed constraints in land availability due to topo-
graphy, soil fertility, and land tenure issues with local people and the
Department of Forestry. As a result, and also because of procurement delays
which led to slower disbursements and cost overruns, the project was reformu-
lated in mid-1982 to settle about 20,000 families, 10,000 in three of the
tJ    US$36.0 million of the loan was cancelled earlier on May 21,
1986.
4/     A detailed program for Singkut was prepared in 1980 by
government agencies with consultant assistance but the cost per
family was judged high relative to inlcremental benefits. Tree
crops were not included in the program because they had not been
provided for in the SAR.



original four sites in Jambi and 10,000 in two sites in South Sumatra.  The
Singkut upgrading program was also revised to reduce CostS, while subcomponents
were added to address soil fertility problems and promote tree crop development.
The remainder of funds was allocated to strengthen settlement planning by
engaging 11 consultant firms to carry out the site screening and evaluation
stud'tes called the Site Feasibility Studies and Engineering (SFSE-8(,) and an
expatriate Technical Advisory Group (TAG) to supervise the SFSE consultants.  To
reduce procurement problems, loan documents were also changed to reflect GOI
procurement procedures.
6.       Settlement, The project succeeded in settling 19,631 families (98% of
the revised target) in the five new sites as presented in Table 2. Of these,
about 9% were local transmigrants. Tn addition, facilities were upgraded at
Singkut. The six project sites can be grouped into three categories according
to the age of settlement as shown in Table 2, namely, (1) old sites - Singkut
and Kubang Ujo - settled for five or more years, (2) recent sites - Hitam Ulu
and Kuamang Kuning - settled between 1983 and 1986 which have not reached full
agricultural development and (3) new sites - Kelingi and Bingin Teluk - settled
between 1985 and early 1987 with agricultural development in the initial
stages.
Table 2
SETTPMENT PROGRESS
(Number of Families)
By Year
Revised  --------------------------------------------------- Revised Origina
Site     Target    81    82    83    84    85    86    87   Total %   Target   Target
K. Ujo            559   238   403                              1200
H. Ulu                        2540  1409  1324  1088    17    6378
K. Kuning                     2282  1229  3287   702           7500
B. Teluk                                  1022  1637   144    2803
Kelingi                                   1003   707    40    1750
TOTAL 20000    559   238  5225  2638  6636  4134   201   19631    98.16%    65.4
CUM.TOT.         559   797  6022  8660 15296 19430 19631
7.       Cattle, About 70% of the target number of cattle were distributed;
with the majority (74% of actual distribution) taking place between June 1986



- x-
and February 1987. Arrangements have been made to distribute the balance under
the IFAD/World Bank Smallholder Cattle Development Project. The absence of
project provisions for draft equipment and training in the use of draft animals
is, in part, responsible for low utilization of cattle for the intended draft
purposes.
8.       Cooperatives.  Assessed against SAR objectives or consultants' terms of
reference, support for village cooperative (KUD) development has been less than
satisfactory. There were either serious delays in construction of KUD
facilities (Jambi sites) or non-provision of facilities due to Ministry of
Cooperatives budgetary problems (Sumatra sites). In addition to lack of access
to needed credit for operation and expansion, management and direction of the
KUDs have been poor. This is typical of KUD performance generally and not
confinsd to transmigration sites. Input distribution and marketing of surplus
production have not been c.one through the KUDs to any appreciable extent, as
envisaged at appraisal. Cooperative development through the use of "motivators"
by the cooperative consultants in the Jambi sites is, however, beginning to show
some encouraging results. The very limited marketable surpluses have been
marketed mostly through private traders and is expected to stay that way in the
future due to the proximity of the sites to ths Trans-Sumatra highway.
9.       Soontaneous Transmigrants.  Components included in the project to
assist spontaneous migrants and bring them into the planning process were not
implemented by GOI.
RESULTS
AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
10.      Due to lack of reliable time series data concerning the progress of
agricultural development in the project sites, data from a survey conducted by
the PCR team was used to supplement agricultural data from official sources in
the assessment of the agricultural impact of the project. The information
available suggests that, compared to appraisal expectations, agricultural
development has been much less than anticipated.
11.      Current Land Utilization and CroRRing Patterns.  Actual land
utilization at time of PCR was 32,178 ha (40% of the total allocated area
including the areas of developed sawah). The lower than expected land
utilization, while reflecting the relative newness of four of the six sites, is
also due to lower cropping intensity and area cropped. In practice, the SAR
high input - high output food crop model with sharp labor peaks of a mixed
cropping pattern of cassava, maize, and dry rice has materialized only in a
limited number of lead farmers' fields wbile the majority of transmigrants were
unable to apply it due to inexperience -nd inadequate agricultural support
services. The lower area cropped is due to labor constraints and the absence of
second-stage development of the LU II areas under the project. GOI has not
produced a comprehensive plan as required in the SAR, nor acted on proposals
which were put forwarded by the Bank. The very limited LU II development which
has taken place is the result of non-project initiatives (e.g., transmigrants
themselves and the Bank-supported Smallholder Rubber Development II Project at
Singkut).



_ xi -
12.      Current Yields.  Actual weighted average (all sites) yields are below
SAR estimates at full development, partly reflecting the less than full food
crop development status of four of the six sites, but mainly due to over-
optimistic SAR projections, untimely availability of inputs of the required
quality and a variety of problems due to pest, inexperience of transmigrants and
extension staff in upland farming on podzolic soils, and less than adequate
extension effort. The current average dry rice yield of 0.65 tons/ha, for
example, is less than 40% of the SAR full development estimate of 1.7 tons/ha.
13.      Current Production.  Due to the much lower than expected cropping
intensities, area cultivated. and yield, production of major crops fall far
short of expe-tations even in the older sites with better than. expected yields
for legumes ar.d maize.
14.      The PCR reveals that 60% of the farmers in the South Sumatra sites have
planted coffee, despite this not being included in their input packages and
concludes that settlers judge the potential benefits from tree crops suffi-
ciently high to justify investment from their own very limited resources.  It
further points out that while livestock for non-draft purposes (small animals)
were not included in the project, it is of considerable importance in the
project area as a source of income, household consumption and a store of wealth.
15.      Future Land Utilization  in the project area is expected to Ancrease by
58% over the next five years to about 51,000 ha. Even then, however, only 63%
of the total available area (including sawah) will be under cultivation.
16.      Future Average Yields are expected to rise as the new and recent sites
reach full food crop development, more fruit and cash crops reach maturity, and
farmers specialize. Provided settlers receive and use appropriate extension
services, thb right inputs at the right times, and crop protection services,
yields, as petcentages of SAR estimates, are expected to increase to 50% for dry
rice, 75% for cassava, and slightly higher than 100% for maize and legumes;
under a lc'w input, low output regime.
17.      Future Production.  Area cultivated to, and production of, food crops
would most likely decline in the future, however, due to possible switch away
from food crops to tree crops to take advantage of the latter's potentially
higher returns to labor and the likelihood that the poorer farmers and farmers
in marginal areas would take advantage of off-farm employment opportunities (to
the extent available) to meet their family cash requirements while producing
fcod crops only for their subsistence needs.
18.      The PCR concludes that Trans II settlers are not full time farmers
relying primarily on their own production. On average net agricultural income
contributes only 36% to household cash income at present; the balance being made
up of income earned through wage labor, business operations, and rental
activities. The transmigrants satisfy household consumption needs through
cultivation of their houselots and pursue whatever off-farm employment oppor-
tunities that exist, as these usually offer higher returns to labor at less risk
than cultivation of food crops.



- xcii -
Transmigrant Welfare
19.      The PCR found household income levels in all sites (except one of the
newer sites - Kilingi) to exceed appraisal expectations. Nevertheless, 64% of
the project beneficiaries fall below the GOI CentrAl Bureau of Statistics'
benchmark figure for household poverty level (Rp 50,000/month);5  and incomes
are generally lower than Java rural area incomes.   The latter does not
necessarily mean that settlers are worse off. They were selected from the
poorest section of the Java population, but 35% (excluding those in the newer
South Sumatra sites) are now above the poverty level. They have assets - land,
a house, livestock - and are more than meeting their subsistence requirements.
Over 75% consider their incomes to be better than when they moved and almost all
are optimistic about their future prospects as transmigrants.
Institutional Impact
20.      Because of the allocation of implementation responsibility amongst
various line agencies, no single entity was responsible for all aspects of
project implementation. The PCR points to poor inter-agency coordination and
the fact that the Jumior Minister for Transmigration did not have the staff,
authority or budget to carry out its task. The highlighting of managerial
problems in the course of the project contributed to the eventual formation of a
new Ministry of Transmigration - MOT, following which coordination improved;
although planning, monitoring and evaluation remained weak.
21.      The project was successful in developing improved standards for site
screening and evaluation due to work under the SFSE-80 (para. 5). Previously,
detailed survey and design had been carried out prior to land clearing. It was
frequently not sufficiently accurate and required adjustments at the time of
land clearing and site layout. Under the modified planning procedures
introduced as a result of the SFSE-80, survey and design for transmigration
settlements have improved substantially and are completed after land clearing.
22.      Unlike the PCR for the first Bank supported transmigration project,
this PCR was prepared by GOI with consultant help (para. 1). At the request of
the Bank, a local counterpart team in the BOP of MOT was set up to work with the
consultant PCR team. It is envisaged that the experience gained by the MOT
staff on this and future PCRs will build the capacity within NOT to prepare
PCRs.
Environmental Impact
23.      The PCR does not have a section on the environmental impact of the
project. Even though there was not a specific environmental component of the
project, it was designed to avoid erosion, depletion of soil fertility and
structure, and possible reductions in wildlife. Land was also to be cleared
5/   This does not deviate markedly from the Transmigration Sector
Review findings (50% below poverty income) which emphasize that
incomes and the number of migrants below poverty level vary by
farm model and period of settlement.



- xiii -
mostly by mechanical means with as little disturbance of topsoil as possible to
minimize subsequent erosion and 'o preclude the mixing of topsoil with subsoil
that is devoid of plant nutrients. While some bank supervision missions raised
issues with some aspects of the implementation of land clearing (e.g. occasional
clearing of areas with more than 8% slope), by and large, land was cleared
according to the detailed specifications agreed with the Bank. Soil conserva-
tion measures (including bunding) were also promoted under the project;
initially in pilot areas and later to all villages. Soil conservation
structures can be seen in all of the project sites.
24.      A total of about 29,000 hectares of land was cleared under the project
for the housing and ajricultural lots and public facilities, including roads, as
shown in Table 3 belea.
Table 3
PROJECT LAND CLEARING
Revised                  Actual
SAR          Target
% of       %of
----------------Ha-----------------   SAR     Revised
Target
House and Agricultural
lots                  37,500        25,000          24,897   66.00      99.6
Public Facilities        7,500         5,000           4,013   53.50      80.25
Total           45,000        30,000          28,910   64.24      96.37
This amounts to about 64% of the SAR envisaged land to be cleared and about 96%
of the revised target. Of the total land cleared, less than 10% (about 1,900 ha
or 7% for the Kubang Ujo site) was virgin forest. Most other sites (especially
the South Sumatra ones) had been at least partially harvested prior to land
clearing.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
25.      The PCR, acknowledging the existence of several unquantifiable costs
and benefits (including secondary benefits) of a project of this kind, and the
lack of comprehensive time series data on agricultural production and off-farm
income per site; extrapolated benefits from the PCR survey and reestimated the
project ERR to be about 3%6 , as opposed to the appraisal estimated ERR of 12%.
The lower reestimated ERR is due in part to the lower than expected cropping
i/     With an assumed project life of 31 years.



- xiv _
intensity and yields; lower commodity prices; and minimal timber benefits as a
result of the reduction in land actually cleared (due to the major reduction in
the scope of the resettltment component) and an SAR overestimation of the timber
resources. The SAR estimated timber benefits were 100% of the projected second
year benefits, and 92%, 79%, 62%, and 34%, respectively, of the second to six
years' benefits.
FINDINGS AND LESS'2NS
26.      The major lessons learned from the project are brought out in the PCR.
They include the following:
i)     the application of a standard food crop development model does
not take sufficient account of individual site variations in
topography, land conditions and accessibility. Greater
flexibility needs to be adopted in the application of farm
models (ideally site specific) in upland transmigration areas;
ii)    rather than being forced into identifying increasingly marginal
areas for Lransmigration settlement, better use should be made
of existing areas through second stage development programs;
iii)   if cattle programs are to realize their expected benefits,
measures to promote draft technology should be included in
project design;
iv)    given the importance of small livestock to settler welfare,
consideration should be given to promoting livestock for non-
draft purposes in future projects;
v)     KUD's will not function as intended, namely, as the engine for
economic development within transmigration areas, unless
adequate technical and financial assistance is provided;
vi)    the use of motivators as catalysts to transmigration site
development is worthy of replication in other projects;
vii)   tree crops are perceived by settlers to offer a more viable
source of agricultural income than food crops and should be
included as part of input packages;
viii) the Ministry of Transmigration will need to be strengthened,
particularly at provincial and regional levels, if it is to
successfully meet its future responsibilities;
ix)    monitoring arrangements for collecting site level agricultural
and socio-economic data in a regular and systematic manner must
be instituted in future projects, if project impact is to be
measured with the desired degree of confidence.



Changes in ReReater Projects
27.      There have been three Bank supported Transmigration Projects since the
commencement of the implementation of the Transmigration II Project
Transmigration III, IV, and V projects (Table 1); with another, Transmigration
Second Stage Development Project (TSSDP), in the lending program for FY89.7
While the three ongoing projects were started before the completion of
Transmigration II, some of the more obvious issues and lessons emerging during
the supervision of Trans II were incorporated in these projects, either at the
design stage or during reviews after their inception. An addendum (by GOI) to
the PCR attempts to give an item by item comment of the relevance of the above
lessons learned on the ongoing and proposed projects in the Transmigration
Sector.
28.      Due to the problem of shortage of suitable land, the next Bank-
supported project, Transmigration III, was to provide technical support to the
overall transmigration site selection and evaluation program, on ths proviso
that future upland settlement was confined to sites selected under improved
procedures. Under the Transmigration III (SFSE 83) planning program, better
reconnaissance was initiated to exclude unsuitable sites early in the planning
process. The Transmigration V Project was also geared to improving settlement
planning.
29.      On the issue of the sustainability of the food crop farm model,
expanded terms of reference were instituted to permit investigation of a larger
number of farm models under the SFSE 83 planning of the Transmigration III
Project, while the Transmigration V Project established detailed procedures for
planning tree crop and other types of sites. The Transmigration IV Project
included 2.0 ha of tree crops per family in addition to the food crop land. The
proposed TSSDP would also focus on the introduction of tree and other cash crops
based on site specific studies on soils, markets and other mitigating factors.
30.      Another issue which is raised by the PCR but not listed under lessons
learned is the issue of inter-agency coordinatiort, in addition to the (listed)
need to strengthening MOT's managing and coordinating role of the overall
program. To tackle this issue, the Transmigration IV Project included
components to improve the coordination of Bank-assisted projects and to
facilitate implementation of the overall transmigration program. Studies
financed under the Transmigration V Project include a review of the
organizational structure of MOT in relation to the requirements of the next
Repelita (V) transmigration program, while the proposed TSSDP would include
components to strengthen the planning and programming capabilities of MOT for
second-stage developments, and mechanisms to improve inter-agency coordination.
Z/     Other Bank-supported projects in support of transmigration
include two swamp reclamation projects and two livestock projects
(one financed by IFAD and administered by the Bank and the other
cofinanced with IFAD).



- xvi -
Bank Performance
31.      Proiect Appraisal.  GOI, in the addendum to the PCR has, inter alia,
called attention to the Bank's support for designing a project based on
inadequate information about the availability of suitable land which led to the
reduction of settlement targetted by one third (para. 5). Overoptimistic
appraisal expected yields of staple food crops (rice and cassava) and labor
availability at peak periods are also cited as flaws ir the Bank's appraisal of
the project (paras 10 and 11). The lack of project provision for draft
equipment and training in the use of project provided draft animals is another
flaw in the design of the project.
32.      Project Suoervision.  The Bank's superv4.sion missions were fielded
regularly. During project implementation, 13 Bank supervision missions visited
the project. The GO addendum to the PCR argues that while Bank supervision
reports were generally good and focussed on issues requiring attention, the Bank
did not proviae the timely intervention required to resolve problems related to
cross-sectoral agency implementation of recommer4ed changes.
CONCLUSIONS
33.      While the settlement component of the project was reduced due to land
suitability, the project managed to settle almost all (98%) of the revised
targeted number of families. Lessons provided by with the project has resulted
in improving Bank assistance to the transmigration program through subsequent
and proposed projects. On agricultural production and settler incomes and
welfare, it appears that, even with improved agricultural support services,
additional investments for tree or other cash crops (second stage development)
in the sites settled under the project would be necessary to provide sustainable
incomes above the GOI benchmark household poverty income of Rp 600,000 per year.8
It is also important to recognize that while this is only a first stage in the
economic development of these sites, the current situation of most of the
settlers (having come from the poorest section of Java) is better than when they
moved and that they themselves are extremely optimistic about their future
prospects as transmigrants.
3/     This additional investment has already started to happen with a
private company (P. T. Astra) Nucleus Estate Oil Palm Development
Project to utilize the settlers' second land holding at the Hitam
Ulu site and possibly Kuamang Kuning (May 1987 PCR reconnaissance
mission back-to-office report).



REPORT NO. 34/196
REPUBLIK INDONESIA
DEPARTEMEN TRANSMIGRASI
TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
I Loin No. 1707 - INO. Credit 919- INO and SAC -15 - IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT
VOLUME I
MAIN REPORT
Prepared for:
BUREAU OF PLANNING
MINISTRY OF TRANSMIGRATION
by
N PT. PLANARS & ENEX of NEW ZEALAND CONSORTIUM 9M)



FOREWORD
The Project Comoletion Report for Transmigration II Projec:
(World Bank Loan 1707/Credit 919-IND and EEC Speci4l Action
Credit SAC-IS-IND) has been comoleted jointly by the Bureau of
Planning (MOT) and Planars/ENCX in accordance with the Second Ad-
dendum to the Contract Agreement for Transmigration IV Project
(World Bank Loan 2288-INO) Management and Monitoring Services No:
591.A/DT-P/TRANS IV/PRO/VI/1986. dated 6 April 1987, between the
Ministry of Transmigration, Republic of Indonesia and PT Planars
Consultants, Indonesia in association with ENEX Consortium 346 of
New Zealand.
The Report has been prepared on the basis of information supplied
to the Consultants by the approPriate officials in the Ministry
of   Transmigration   and  other  participating  agencies.   site
investigations, interviews with transmigrants. and discussions
with consultants previously empooyed under the Project. The scope
and timing of the study has not allowed the Consultants to verify
the accuracy or otherwise of the information. This particularly
aoolies to financial data regarding oroject costs. as no audited
financial statements of account have been provided.
The Consultants wish to express their gratitude to all the
respective parties for their cooperation in completing tne
Report.
Jakarta. 27 July 1987
PT Planars Consultants
and
ENEX Consortium 346 of New Zealand



Summary Page   -    Key Project Data
line   -  Number of darect beneficiaries (year e5) is corrected to -
Number  of direct beneficiaries (year 85187) 30,000   20,000   19,631
Page   3       1.3   Settlement  Achiovement    -   lot line - 19,622 families
- should read   -   19,631 families.
Page  26       Table 4.4 - the Public Areas column shoulo be corrected to -
-    Kubang Ujo           3°
-    TOTAL               4013
Page  27       Table 4.5            Village Road  column should be corrected to -
-    Kubang Ujo          62.06
-    TOTAL              467.59
-    Access  Road column should  be corrected to -
-    Hatam Ulu            17.32
-    TOTAL               101.63
Page  33       Table  4.6       Settlement Progress
= columns for 1987 and Total should be corrected to road.
1987           Total
Kubang Ujo                     1200
Hitam Ulu        17            6378
K. Kuning                      7500
D. T-luk        144            2803
Kelangi          40            1750
Total           201          19,631
Cum. Tot.    19,631
Page  33       4.6.2     Resettlement    -  line  7   should   be corrected to read -
19,631 KK,  99,15 % of revased target.



LOCATION MAP
TRANISMIGRATION 11 SETTLEMENT SITES
S UMATERA
S~~~~~~~~~~~~S
I.     -                  o., 
.t'SH ' aS., ~~~~~~~~INDA
<'>'' J'  t-'t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
' i ''<V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JIB
|rr    .    _SS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!0,
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TU iS_    *
9        so, 



| H:f 4gMl t IwftT l Ut.J l I
PRJLi' LEMP F   t lPU  t  tSlfh
E X: 1iU C  I VE SJMMAY
PRUJEt.. IMPA~Lf
Economic 1moac2t
1. *      fveraqF-   Ltric4d inpomey in i9-7 wais ustimated to be
6b u/ .O0  Ler i-airt ly 'kiL$P*4Q1) ot whi_ch. not 'isposable income was
calculated at Rp 3W,O0U'Eoor temilv  tUS$196).1/   The total net
project ecoaon;oic Ltnelits are oroiected to rise'to U5$5.9? million per
anrnum bv 1V'9.
r4rcul1tural _t-roductLon
hokr cultutral produrction irom  the prolect in 196J6/a7 is
recorded as:
Nice - upland                               6,,00
- wetland                            ;5,610
Mai ze                                      1, 910
Lecumes                                     .3, :140
L. ¢asava                                  17. 1*30
F ruit trees                                t,90o
bt-een veqetables                           1. 7Z55
Cash i'ree Croos                              280
witih fur-ther develoomnent still to tax;e place and, except for i.20O ha
ot rubtber under develorment in Sinrkkut within the Bank assisted
,mallholder Rubber Du-velOpment Project (SRI)P). minimal develooment of
LU  1 areas.
biett 1 elffertt
(iŽ.)  Direct Settlemnent.  Settlemnent into the Dro.iect areas in
J anLi and kiau-t orovinces total 19,631 families.  A
4-ar ther 4,:-b families in S3ingkut will benefit from
institutional strenothening  provided under the proiect.
(b)  Land Utiiization.  Ut a total of St. 149 ha allocated
under thc- pruiect. 96:.t (6.499 ha) of the houselots, 91%
1/  Ii the two rnewer sites are omnaitted, the averaQe household income
rises to Rp 691.00U0  UA4_1 `l).
i



tLl" - 6 tix> o4,he +ifiA5 -hS1-dx6Us- s.LU 0%'bU1t o6tal8 49.;
, 2.()43  -;I jtle  eoid h         'a dsos - ar,':g tizl1x =  .  s1,_
4tirtheli       h Ag;4   , 4'8fie bs   dQcv&.iol b   ftFwlndP
-    crgdstcdn4 o tc>rv , .;el{'help biagi'$t 'i n oreI4arlly e.l  tr, '
swarpv ar¢e.v
(1:'  11.t,@C  tit't' I       Otl@4r*. ifXttl zie
att:rib:ittableto  the Pro.vec:t, f1s tiken place  to n : . ;
s>e.tJ emaht-¢ s<tes p-ianncd dur.ivto the .*it:e irnvist,a.Acrn -
-; Ad deamijn compormtnt o: tht   p3.t.
SFites -st.diec 1.at Phase 1i levfil             1504  KPF
Siz1 tes cov 1,d,*r,od. unsut:n itable            I b
ti t.es studied at .Phase 1LI  l.eel              24 SKP
SettIetitmnt capacity  + 'Phase II1 si-tes  ;CK,K3   K
Nutmber of sites wtaere .ettlement is
takrnQ  pI acs.                               19 SKP
Nun;be.r.o+ -familles settled                          KK
(to March 19a/)
Infrastruct re
(a)  Roadq  .  rho +*  1owinn  r oad wor: ks 'were achievedm
cc:ess r0ads                     .101.63   km-
Mlain  vilaqe roads"             251 .4B  kIm
Villaoe roads                    667.59   krm
Bridges iE65i units)           1 385.Cn)    m
Lulvertl                     2 .B-  .00    m
'.b')  Bui.1 i n. .  1 he Fo l}owi nq bui1cdi.ngs were provided under
the Drolect:
Ir rssmioratison housinq      .  19,631
Adcninistration buildings           290
Health centres                       42
Viliaae? schools                  1, 10
Lower hilh school s                  13
Staff housinq                       483
Mark6et centres                      17
Site Planninro Imopact
3         'IThe proJect ir.stituted new improved standards +or site,
screening and evaluation throuah the aevelopment and supervisi'ot of
standards and procedures by an advisorv troup t,f consuLttants and local
planners within the Lepartment of Public Wor-ks.  These standards and
procedures f:or site screeninp ano detailed feasibiitv plannino have
bzn-i fur-ther ret:ined and applied ttirough thp 1ransmiqration III
(Ln. 2248-IND) and transmiiqraticsn V (L.n. 25i78-IND) proiects.
ii



Li vestoc.. k
.a)  Lattle.  Under the oroject, 1,325 head of imported
Brahman cross cattl% and local Unaola (Brahman type)
were distributVd initially to farmers.  Subsequently..
S.LWS head of bxali cattle were distributed.  It was
initiall% theoj,.tht that c.attle woLuld predomrrnantiv oe
usod 4 or draupht power. however a5 the bul k o$ the
cztttle hia;ve only been distributed in the last vear of
'.:he Proife-t, and a sionitic;ant shortaQe o+ imolements--
-onilv 2AA( plouqhs have been produced/distributea--the
expected imoact of the cattie distribution proqram has
t-t been tea1t zfod.
5b)  8trma ii Li vestock.  Wu alocatiorn was maide under- the
pro.ject f or distribution ocf small livestock.  However.
the D)irectorate Lieneral oi Livestock, the M,'.nistrv o+
Iransmioratiorn. and the Ministry of Cooperatives have
a53.steo  twith the purchase of small livestock.  It is
estilliated that the holdinqs o+ small livestock are:
htiickens     Ducks       qqats
estimated nuumbers*           375,000       11,900       4.000
% of tiouLehoids owninc            90            9           5-
* based on soclo-economic survey of 4.77. of population)
LivesioctD   contributes '--'. of aoricultural income.
-oopcpratiye Dev1opment
4'.       On FCL -Farmers Cooperative Centre) has been established and
3'Jnedew KUD')s (village cooperatives) are operational and a further 13
KUD5s . n.3 South Suimatra sites are urJer development.  In SinQkut 7 KUDs
were L,k pciraded under the project.
Si.       rhe :nost sianrificannt impact of the cooperatives prooram has
beenr the aooointfmlent of motivators, who are former KUD members or
transsitiorarts,; emolnovcd to encourage me*lership and to quioe with
operB tional manaqetnemnt.
SeCLrei StaLe' heveiomen t at Si nQ[Ult
6.        IheM proVis,.on of addition-al inouts in the form  of cattle.
extenslun Ser;vices and cooperative rehabiiitation under the prolect,
in corniuJnctIonI wlth tree-crop develoPment through the SRtD*  has halted
the decline in productivitv and on-site ircon;e qeneration in Sinokut.
This .:uconrf staqe development can serve as a model for future second
stage devel opJmernt projects.
iii



REt;OMMENDRTLIUNS FUR F ULLUW-UN PROJEJrs
Follow-l n Pro1jects
7.      RfrIEc-ts supported b'i the World Eianv in the lransmipration
Sector ar-e listed in Tlable 1.  Ail of those projects except the
ptrosed i Trar.siciration SLeconid Staue Devl.opment Froject (TSSVP)
commenced be-f ore the closure o+ trans 11 buit some of the more obvious
issUfe:S efflminLf0o dUrIMnn r.c.ul-ar supcer'.'ision o+ rrans I1 have been
incorporate..d intoi these orojocts durinq r-epLular reviews or at the time
0+ ir.fcptitosl.   hcse pr-oiects to wshich the Trans II oroject has direct
relevance are itrans Ill.. lV', i nd IS1)f.
.ey Lessoiis and (heir Inmpact O. Oln W-On Projects
8.        ( he appl;cation ot a standard food crop development model
does not take sufficienri account o-f individual site variations in
topooraphv. land conditions and accessibility. Greater flexibility
needs to bte adopted in the applicotion of farm models (ideally site
specific, in upland transmiiration areas.
(a)  The model developed durinq rrans II based on 0.25 ha
houselat. 1.0 ha food crop holding (LU I) and 2.0 - 2.25
ha as a second holdinq for annual/oerennial cash crops
(LU iL) has been applied during site planning studies
under Trans III and Irans V.  Ureater flexibility has
also been allai'ed in the farming pattern proposed for
sites s-tudied to FPhase III A Level un-der Trans II1.
(b)  The importance of a reqular income from perennial crop
develooment in LU Ii has been recoqnized and is
incorporated as an inteoral component of the TSSDP
pro ject,
93.      F(athter thrtn beinu forced by the scarcity of suitable land
into identifylna increasinly y marainal areas for transmigration
settlerlrents, better use shoulo be made of existino areas throuqh
secono staqe development proqrams.
(a)  -Ihis is the bas2s o-f the 1SSLF' which is seen as a model
in the prooosed iQ sites which represent a variety of
environments and farmino systems.
(b)  LJetter utilization of lands in existina settlement areas
is a cornerstonE of the policies to be implemented
during Repelita V.
10.      If cattle proqrams are to realize their expected benefits,
measures to promote draft technologv should be included in project
design:



ta)  FailinqcE in tte fransmiciration  11 havc iz.-ad to a lack
of farmer aporeciation ot t,e imoorta,nt role at
livestock iri cultivation of LU I aroa5s.
(be  The Sinaliholder C;attle Lsi.volovpmen-t vroicects naIa
ustablished 5UccE.sE5tUli mlloolf i For CL_ttio oi0trIbUL;U_1ti.
farmer traifli.nq in car-E  nd; Otdirnq  anrc in tthe
provlsican oi0 _tniiawal hc;t1th/ u-LL'-iaslon tLrstS.  t hase
Inodels shoLuld t3e incoroorated into the T.SSP,  sites wherl 
cattle a.-e proposed as ar_ inorediernt irn iurther
development.
II.       Given the importance of small livc.LtccIk to settler wE:lf:Are.
consideration should be *,iven to promotinr  livestock for non-drait
purposes in future projects.
(a)  'i chicken distribution proort-_tm is intearated into the
settlement development component of 1rans 1Y.  The
additiorn u-t a c-o ironent invo:vina ooat dcistribution is
Ander discusiaions.
(b)  [he incorporation oi small livestock as part of the
f urther development of sites selected +or TS3DP has been
proposed and linkaoes witro oxistino livestock support
projects SLP I1, IIDB 11 and GS(N[RES has been discussed.
12.       KUDs will not function as intendeO namf,elv as the ennine  -or
economic development within transmioration areas. unless adequate
technical and financial assistance is provided.
(a)  Strenqtheninc  ot the role o- KUDs9 especially in
relation to LU I1 tree crop maintenance and coordination
ot credit is part of the settlement oevelopment olan +or
jiransnrigration IV settlement sites.
(b)  Finance thr-ough credits or revolving funas is proposed
+or ernhancina the further development and operations ot
KUDs, under ISSL'F.
1         ' the use at ntotivators as catalysts to transmiuration site
development is wor-thy of replication in other projects.
(a)  Technical Assistance to rlinistrv ot Looperatives ELL anu
KWOD development, channelled throuqh MOd. has been
prosided under Tra.ns III proiect both in thre Baturaia
site and for the on-goinq development of KLIDs i n the
-tormer frans. i1 sites.
(b)  The Technical Assistance to be provided to TSSU)F
enviisaoes the use o1 consultant/nmotivators at cite level
to assist with the coordination of site develooment and
to promote i nstiLtutional development.
v



14.       free crops are perceived by settlers to offer a more viable
source of acricultural income than food crops and hence should be
included as oart of input paclkaqes.
(a)  Tree crop a',*velopment has been incorporated as an
inteqral part 6f both Irans I1I  - rubber t1.' haa/femilyv,'
and Irans IV - coconuts t:      iha/famiJy), settlement
components.
(b)  Tree crop develoDment - varyirti betqecn t'. b ha and
1. 5 ha oer tamilv is the Major Lomoonernt in the
proposea 1-ic
(c) ! he Bank assisted Smaliholder RuLbber Development
Project, under which tree croos are beino established in
Sinqkut, also focusses on this issue.
(d)  One of the key areas for involvement of tne private
sector in Transmipration activities. currently under
investiqation, is cooperative tree crop development.
Several companies tave expressed intereEt in the
deveiooment of oi1 oalm and rubber in Trans II sites in
Jambi.  Procedures for linkinq lransmiqration settlement
development with orivate sector investment are under
formulation.
15.      The Ministry of Transmiaratiorn will need to be strengthened.
particularly at provincial and regional levels, if it is to
successfullv meet its future responsibilities under a much broadened
program.
(a)  Under fransm,igration IV, consultants are provided to
assist. on a pilot basis. with management and
coordirnation of proiect implementation at the renional
and site level in Kalimantan T imur.
(b)  A soecial study to prepare the Repelita V proqrari, +or
MOT is funded under the Trans V project and this will
include a review of t.he orqanizational structure ot M01l
in relation to the requirements of tne proposed
ReDelita V proqram.  Tthis prociram will address the
requirements for qreater authority for regional aoencies
for participatiorn in re-desi gn and settlement in their
repioin.
(c)  The rSSDP proposes strengthening the implementation
aeqncies of MU10'1 at both central, regional and site
level.
1l.      Monitorino arrayiqements, +or collecting site level
auricultural and socio-economic data in a regular and systematic
manner, must be instituted in +uture projects i+ project impact is to
be measured with the desired dearee of confidence.
vi



ta)  Monitoriini procedures for site screenina and feasibilitv
studies development by the consultants to Bina Program
o+ D. G. Settlement Preparatiorn under Trans III have
been further refined under Irans V.
(b)  Svstems +or monitorina site preparation and development
are currently under develooment by Trans IV consultants
in con.3unction with the Secretariate General. and by
TST/PLP consultants in conjunction with both
Directorates beneral.
(c) It is planned that these svstems will be incorporated
into TSSDP.
BANK PERFORMANCE
6Mraisa 1
17.      The Appraisal ReDort appears to have been based on erroneous
information related to availability of suitable land. As a result
settlement tarqets were reduced bv one-third, and were subsequently
achieved.
is.      Expected vields ot staple food crops and labor availability
at periods of neak labor requirements were overly ambitious. Related
to this. the proposed aqronomic Program did not take full account of
anticipated losses due to pests and diseases. The farm model, as
originally conceived, was not able to be implemented and was
subsequentlv modified by consultants to one which was more practically
achievable.
19.      rhe proposed regional/site coordination element, to be
established at Muara Bunqo, Jambi (later transferred to Bancko) could
not be effectively implemented due to provincial government
requirements for all project coordination unites to be centrally
located in Jambi city.
S_upervi i.on
20.      Supervision of the project was requlariv undertaken by Bank
staff. Supc.rvision reports were qenerally good and focussed on the
issues requiring attention. Problems arose, however, due to the lack
of a coordinated proiect direction with the necessarv authority to
ensure cross-sectoral agency implementation of changes recommended.
The Bank itself did not initially provide the necessarv intervention
to ensure these actions were undertaken by the cross-sectoral
agenicies.
vii



INOoNESIA
TRANSMIGRATION 1I PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
1. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.1. Overview
Transmigration II Project (World Bank LN 1707/CR 919-INO and EEC
Special Action Credit SAC-IS-IND) was the second World Bank as-
sisted transmigration project. Appraised in 1979, it was intended
to settle 30,000 families in Jambi province in sites close to the
Trans Sumatra highway and to upgrade Singkut, a site of about
4.000. families which had already been settled at the time of the
project.
Unlike the first World Bank assisted transmigration project,
Transmigration II was carried out under the same institutional
arrangements  as  the  GOI  program.   Technical  assistance  was
provided to the Junior minister for Transmigration to aid in
cocrdination of thie overall program. The project was complex and
included all aspects of land development and settlement.
Project design was based on a standard development model which
emphasised food croo production in contrast to the partially
tree-croo based system of Transmigration r. The project was in-
tended as a model for the GOl's transmigration program in
Repelita III (1979-84).
Major difficulties were encountered at start-up. primarily due to
a shortage of suitable land. Detailed mapping undertaken post ap-
praisal indicated sufficient flat land for food crops for only
10,000 of the proposed 30.000 families. This necessitated a sub-
stantial reformulation of the project in 1982. as a result of
which settlement targets were reduced to 20,000 families ana
funds reallocated to site screening and evaluation for the
program as a whole.
Beginnning in 1981,  settlement was  not  completed  until  early
1987. The Singkut upgrading program was delayed, plans were not
prepared for the introduction of tree crops into new sites and
the components to promote spontaneous transmigration were not
I



implemented. Interagency coordination was poor. Because the
Junior Minister did not have adequate authority or staff to carry
out its assigned tasks. the technical assistance provided was
not used to its best effect. However the highlighting of or-
ganisational and managerial problems by consultants and JMT staff
reinforced calls for institutional change which led eventually to
the formation of a new Ministry for Transmigration in 1983.
1.2. Project Design
The project was appraised after preparation of preliminary
development plans but before completion of detailed village
designs. This decision was understandable, given the pressure on
the Ministry of Transmigration to meet the greatly increased tar-
gets for transmigration in Repelita I1I, and the food deficit
situation in which Indonesia found itself at the time of
appraisal. However the costs of this decision were considerable.
There were major implementation delays due to difficulties in
identifying sufficient suitable land for settlement and the
project had to be substantially reduced in scope.
Because  the Project had a large aiumber of comporents,  including
innovative features  such  as  measures  to  pr.waote  spontaneo'is
transmigration, provision of services to local settlers. new pro-
cedures for timber disposal and preparation of a comprehensive
plan for second stage development, it was difficult to implement.
Appraisal coincided with the beginning of Repelita II. when
transmigration  officials  were  faced  with  a target of 500,000
families to be settled, six times greater than in Repelita It. To
achieve this target. uniform standards, of necessity, had to bi
adopted. It was therefore, perhaps. unrealistic to expect im-
plementation of the Project's unique features, particularly as
detailed arrangements had not been made under the project. The
same applies to the procurement procedures originally specified
under the Project. Some of these were not in line with standard
Government procedures, and had to be modified accordingly in the
course of implementation.
The application of the standard food crop model. upon which the
SAR was based, presented several difficulties;
(i) on the podzolic soils characteristic of most of the
Project  area   (and   indeed,   most   upland   sites   for
transmigration), the model induces a long-term dependence of
the farmer on chemical tertilisers to sustain even rela-
tively low yields of annual food crops. It is unlikely that
small farmers on low yield potential, rainfed land in outly-
ing areas will be motivated to apply any higher proportion
of fertiliser recommended. even if basic supply problems
could be overcome;
2



(ii) wide apolication of the model may contribute to the na-
tional goal of self-sufficiency but at current prices for
food grains and expected yields, it does not maximise farmer
income and minimise settlers' excosure to risk. There is a
need to examine alternative and possibly, site speci.ic farm
development models;
(iii) the linking, under the model, of food crop production
to slope and distance criteria restricted the proportion of
land which could  be  developed  ir  sites  with  undulating
topograohy and increased development costs per family.
Available land that meets all the design criteria is rapidly
becoming scarce. Planners are forced to identity increas-
ingly marginal areas in order to meet the targets of the
Government's transmigration program.
1.3. Settlement Achievements
The  Project  succeeded  in  settling    19.622  families (98% of
revisod target) in five sites - Kubang Ujo, Hitam Ulu and Kuamang
Kuning in Jambi Province.- and Kelingi and Bingin Teluk, in South
Sumatra Province. In addition. facilities and services were
upgraded at Singkut, an already settled transmigration area in-
Jambi Province. The Project sites can be grouped into three
categories according to the age of settlement:
(i) old. or established sites - Singkut and Kubang Ujo fall
into this category as both have been settled for five yezrs
or more;
(ii) middle sites - Hitam Ulu and Kuamang Kuning are in this
category  as they were settled over the period 1983-1986 and
still have not reached full food crop potential;
(iii)  new  sites - Kelingi and Bingin Teluk began receiving
settlers in 1985 and settlement was not completea until
early 1987. Agricultural development is in the initial
stages.
1.4. Cattle
Only about half the required number of cattle were distributed.
Alternative arrangements have been reached with the IFAO/World
Bank Smallholder Cattle Development Project to distribute the
balance.
As the majority of cattle have only been distributed in the last
12 months, utilisation is low, but should improve in future
years. Experience under, the IFAD/World Bank Smallholder Cattle
Development Project is that cattle usage for draft purposes



begins at a low level in the first year, but increases sharply in
the next two years. However, the lack of Project provision for
draft equipment or training in the use of draft animals has also
contributed to low utilisation levels. Such measures should have
been included at appraisal, particularly in view of the impor-
tance  of  draft  power  to  increasing   crop   produjction   and
farmers' livelihoods.
The change from imported to local procurement of cattle in the
course of implementation made much of the cattle component in-
frastructure provided under the project, such as the Reception
and Distribution Centre (RDC) at Margoyoso. no longer justified.
The  extensive  facilities are substantially underutilised.  Cur-
rently under discussion are proposals by the Directorate General
of Livestock Services to use the RDC as a technical support unit
for livestock development in Jambi and South Sumatra provinces.
Livestock f-or non-draft purposes was not an issue addressed in
the SAR. However, as a source of income, household consumption
and store of wealth, it is of considerable importance in the
project area. On average, twenty percent of household agricul-
tural income is attributable to sales of small livestock. Given
its importance to settler welfare, consideration should be given
to promoting small livestock develooment in future projects.
1.5. Cooperatives
Cooperative   development   has   fallen   short   of   appraisal
expectations. Large agricultural surpluses have never been avail-
able for sale.   Cooperatives have had  difficulty  in  obtaining
access to the credit necessary for operation and expansion.
Management and direction has been poor. For the coooeratives to
function as the engine of economic development within transmigra-
tion areas, adequate technical and financial assistance must be
provided.
The  introduction  of  the "motivator  conceot by the OG Coopera-
tives  consultants  was   an   imoortant   project   achievement.
motivators are practical, farmer-oriented and experienced "all
rounders" who work with farmers' groups and cooperatives to
promote site development. Their role is particularly vital in the
critical  first  two  years  of  settlement  when   appropriately
qualified and experienced extension staff may not be available.
The use of motivators as catalysts to transmigration site
development is worthy of replication in other transmigration
projects.
1.6. Agricultural Impact
Transmigration is a long term  development  process.  Given  that
four of the six project sites are relatively recently settled and
4



have not yet reached their full food crop potential, it is not
possible to be definitive about the agricultural imoact of the
project.
In addition to the comolication presented by farming systems in
the new and middle site not being at their final pattern, another
difficult concerned the quality and quantity of data. Because the
participating agencies have not collected data in a regular and
systematic manner,  reliable time series information on areas and
yields does not exist. This shortfall has prevented the PCR from
confirming or denying the suggestion that yields in the Trans-
migration It settlements decline over time as soil fertility
diminishes. It also points to the necessity of instituting such
monitoring arrangements in future projects, if the Government and
donor agencies are to measure the impact of their  projects  with
the desired degree of confidence.
Information available at the time of the PCR indicates that, com-
pared to aopraisal expectations. agricultt-al development has
been much less than anticipated.  Rice yields.  at 0.65 t/ha, are
62% lower than SAR estimates,  cassava at 7 t/ha.  42% lower  and
maize   at   0.7   t/ha.   12%   lower.   The   envisaged   mixed
cassava/Iaize/rice cropping pattern at an intensity of 200% has
not eventuated. primarily because the management required is far
above the caoability of either the extension worker or the
farmer.  The  general  cropping  pattern  is  monoculture.   Land
utilisation and areas planted are consequently much lower than
acoraisal estimates. Presently,  only 370% of total allocated area
is utilised.
The maintenance and imorovement of the naturally low fertility
soils in the project area requires a great deal of skill and con-
siaeraoie caoital input from the transmigrants. They have to work
hard. invest much money in each crop, and apply, in addition to
normal husbandry methods, soil conservation and crop protection
measures to assure reasonable yields. The risks involved are
great. An additional constraint has been that agricultural inputs
of the required quality and variety have not always been
available.
An interesting phenomenon has been falling particioation rates in
food crop cultivation but increasing yields per grower as settle-
ment proceeds. This suggests that over time, the less able or
less motivated farmers are dropoing out and/or specialization oc-
curs  in  the form of a switching away from food crops toward es-
tate tree croos.  Both old sites derive 20% or more  of  agricul-
*tural income from tree crops (rubber, coconuts. cloves and
coffee) compared to 7% or less for the middle and new sites. The
trend is likely to become more pronounced over time as the rela-
tively recently planted trees reach maturity.
Settlers at middle and old sites received clove and coffee trees
S



(amongst others) as part of input package A.  Settlers at the new
sites did not.  due to a change in package comoosition  in  1984.
Despite this, 60% of farmers at the new sites have planted coffee
trees. Clearly, settlers judge the potential benefits from tree
crops sufficiently high to justify investment from their own very
limited resources.
Effectively,  there has been no development of Lahan  $I  (second
agricultural lot) areas under the project. The plan for their
development,  as part of a coordinated program for  secona  stage
development, was not prepared by Government. At Singkut, about
1,400 ha of Lahan II has been planted in rubber but this has
taken place under the World Bank supported Second Smallholder
Rubber Development Project. There are private sector prooosals to
develop Lahan II areas of other sites into oil palm estates, none
of which has yet come to fruition. Without private sector,
Government or donor agency participation, development of the
Lahan II areas of the project is most unlikely to proceed.
Over the next five years, provided extension services. good seed,
adequate fertiliser and pesticide inputs and crop protection
services are available, yields for rice and secondary food crops
(maize. legumes, cassava) are expected to increase. Total produc-
tion and area cultivated in food crops, nevertheless, are likely
to decline as the move away from food crops to tree crops con-
tinues and the availability of off-farm employment enables set-
tlers to opt for the lower risk, higher return alternative of
wage labour.
In the Project area, each household suoplied an average of 68
mandays  of  wage  employment  over  the  past year.  Contrary to
expectations. there does not appear to be any decline in wage in-
come or participation in wage employment as settlement proceeds.
Average household income from wages and number of wage earners
per household are noticeably higher in the old sites. Although
possibly  initially  stimulated  by  financial  necessity,   wage
employment tends to be maintained or increased over time. It does
not. however, approach the maximum 190 mandays per household sug-
gested in the World Bank Transmigration Sector Review of 1986.
it  is  incorrect  to  characterise Transmigration 1I settlers as
full timie farmers relying primarily on their own  production.  On
average, sales of agricultural surpluses (net of production
costs) contribute only 36% to household cash income, the balance
being made up of income earned through wage labour. business
operations and rental activities. The strategy presently adopted
by many transmigrants is to satisfy household consumption needs
through cultivation of houselot areas, but to pursue whatever
off-farm opportunities exist ar these usually offer higher
returns to labour at less risk than cultivation of food crops
which -must be marketed.
6



1.7. Institutional Impact
Because of the allocation of imPlementation responsibility
amongst the various line agencies. no single person or Project
Manager    was   responsible   for   all   aspects   of   project
implementation. Interagency coordination was poor. The Office of
the Junior Minister for Transmigration did not have the staff,
authority or budget to carry out its task. The highlighting of
managerial problems in the course of the Project contributed to
the eventual formation of a new Ministry of Transmigration (MOT)
in 1983.
Following the establishment of MOT. coordination improved al-
though planning, monitoring and evaluation remained weak.
Contined strengthening will be necessary if MOT is to success-
fully meet its future responsibilities involving new settlement
with tree crops and other cash crops, second stage development
activities and promotion of spontaneous transmigration.
The Project was successful in instituting new, imoroved standards
for site screening and evaluation due to the work carried out by
consultants within the Ministry of Public Works, with the assis-
tance of an expatriate Advisory Group. Previously. detailed s'r-
vey and design had been carried out prior to land clearing. It
was frequently not sufficiently realistic to allow accurate in-
terpretation at the time of land clearing and site layout. Under
the modified planning procedures introduced by the consultants,
survey and design for transmigration settlements are now only
completed after land clearing.
1.8. Project Costs and Benefits
Estimated total project costs, expressed in US dollars, are US S
140 million (including a US S 5.5 million EEC Special Act4on
Credit), como.ared to the SAR estimate of US S 242 million and the
revised  estimate  following  project  reformulatior  of US S 235
million.  Expressed in local  currency,  however,  total  project
costs  are  Rp  131.629  million,  equivalent to 87?1 of appraisal
estimate, or 83' of the revised estimate.
The discrepancy between US dollar and local currency costs
reflects the differences in local inflation relative to interna-
tional inflation and the corresponding sucessive. devaluations of
the Ruoiah from US S I equalling Rp 625 in 1979 to Rp 1450 in
1986/87. With the Rupiah devaluations, the project had substan-
tial loan savings at project completion. Of the US S 157 million
Loan/Credit proceeds. US S 36 million was cancelled in May 1986,
and there was an undisbursed balance of nearly US S 16 million as
of June 30, 1987.
The revised economic rate of return for the project is 2.7% (SAR
7



estimate 12%). No attempt has been made to cacture the project's
unquantified benefits (such as regional development), or costs
(for example, environmental degradation). At the time of the PCR.
soin off benefits in areas adjacent to the project settlement
areas were clearly visible. A factory has been built at Pamenang
to process cassava produced by transmigrants and others. The
access and other roads constructed under the project have
facilitated the flow of goods and sevices to and from the settle-
ment areas. They have also enabled local peoole to associate more
freely with transmigrants, and thus decrease the likelihood of
social problems emerging.
In the revised ERR.  only 62s& of the benefits at full development
are attributable to agriculture, in contrast to the SAR which as-
sumed all benefits at full development would be from agricultural
activities. In the SAR estimate, benefits from commercial and
useable timber were considerable - the ERR without timber fell to
9%. In reality. the reduction in land actually cleared consequent
upon the major scaling down of the project, combined with the SAR
over-estimation of the timher resource, has meant that timber
benefits were minimal. Data on timber harvested from the project
area is not available. Rough estimates of their value have little
impact on the ERR as currently estimated, which only increases to
'.3 %.
1.9. Transmigrant Welfare
SAR expectations regarding the importance of agricultural ac-
tivities as a source of household income have not been realised.
On  average,   income  from  agriculture   (including   household
consumotion) only slightly exceeds household income from off-farm
activities.
Wage employment is the most common form of off-farm activity,
with 64'. of all households having at least one member earning
wages. Pensions or gifts of money are received by 20% of all
households and income from various rental activities is received
by 28% of all households. Busiress participation rates are on a
par with pensions and gifts and as expected, are highest in the
old sites.
In all sites except Kelingi. household income levels exceed ap-
praisal  expectations.  (The  Kelingi situation is rot surprising
since essential drainage works at the site were only completed an
April 1987 and over 30% of the total settlers have arrived on
site within the last six months). 'Nevertheless, 64% of project
beneficiaries fall below the Central Bureau of Statistic's
benchmark for household poverty level (Ap 50,000/month) and
household incomes are generally lower than Java rural area
incomes.
8



Although project incomes are lower than  Java  incomes,  settlers
were selected from the poorest section of the Java population.
Now 36 % are above poverty level. They have assets - land, a
house.  livestock  -  and are more than meeting their subsistence
requirements. Over 75 % consider their incomes to be better than
before they moved and nearly all are extremely optimistic about
their future prospects.
There are distinct differences in settler welfare amongst types
of transmigrants. Trans A8RX, transmigrants from the ranks of
retired armed forces personnel, have significantly higher incomes
(from agricultural and ott-farm activities) than other settlers.
in contrast to earlier findings, this does not seem to be en-
tirely due to their pensions, as they also have higher agricul-
tural incomes than other transmigrants. Local transmigrants ap-
pear to do better than fully assisted transmigrarul.s (IltJia).
Fully assisted and spontaneous transmigrants have similar income
levels but as might be expected, the former derive a much larger
portion of their total income from agricultural activities.
1.10. Future Transmigration Planning
Many of the planning,and implementation difficulties experienced
are not unique to Transmigration II Project. Lesssons learned
that have wider application include:
(i)  the  application  of  a  standard food crop development
model does not take sufficient account of individual site
variations in topography. land conditions and accessibility.
Greater flexibility needs to be adopted in  the  application
of farm models (ideally site specific) in upland transmigra-
tion areas;
(ii) rather than being forced, by the scarcity of suitable
land, into identifying increasingly marginal areas for
transmigration settlement. better use should be made of ex-
i # ,    ,. ;     t;|h -ie:ond1 sIage development programs;
(iii) it cattle programs are to realise their expected
benefits. measures to promote draft technology should be in-
cluded in project design;
(iv) given the importance of small livestock to settler
welfare, consideration should be given to promoting live-
stock for non-draft purposes in future projects;
(v) KUD's will not function as intended,  namely, as the en-
gine for economic development within  transmigration  areas,
unless   adequate  technical  and  financial  assistance  is
provided;
(vi) the use of mottvators as catalysts to transmigration
9



site develoment is worthy of replication in other projects;
(vii) tree craos are perceived by settlers to offer a more
viable source of agricultural income than food crops and
hence should be incluced as part of input packages;
(viii) the ministry of Transmigration will need to be
strengthened,   particularly  ac  provincial  and   regional
levels,  if  it  is  to successfully meet its future respon-
sibilities under a much broadened program;
(ix) moniLoring arrangements for collecting site level
.gri.f.ltIur,a .-r.d1 socioeconomic data in a regular and sys-
tematic manner must be instituted in future projects, if
project impact is to be measured with the desired degree of
confidence.
10



2. BACKGROUND
Althouqh imolemented in Indonesia since early this century.
transmigration was not accordea oriority in  the  country's  five
year aevelaoment plans until 1970. Targets for transmigration in
successive Repelitas were 40.000 families settlea in RePelita I
(1969/70 - 1973i4). 83.000 in Redelita II (1974/75 - 1978/79).
500.000 in Reoelita  III  (1979/80  -  1983/84)  ancd  750,000  in
Repelita IV (l184/85 - 1988/89).
To support the new emDhasis placed on transmigration, the agency
responsible for transmigration was strengthene-1 and upgrajeo from
the status of a Directorate General to a Junior ministry in 1478
and to a Ministry in 1983.
The earlier settlement schemes (prior to L970), being based on
irrigated agriculture and estate plantations, were high cost in
terms of investment and government resources required. Only aoout
216.500 families were settled through Government of Indonesia
transmigration programs between 1905 and 1974. Transmigrants were
allocated small land holdings (2 ha) and a minimum technical. so-
cial and economic package. They spent most of thei. first year
clearing their agricultural land and were frecuently below self-
sufficiency when their subsistence supplies ceased. Agriculturai
procuctivity was also limited by the transmigrants' laCK of
access to agricultural inputs such as fertilizer and good seed
and  tneir  unfamiliarity  with  cropping  tecnnicues suitable to
tneir lana.
*S ince V170.  the greatly increasec Reoelira  targets  tor  trans-
migration necessitaced the develoPment of low cost acDroaches
basea on rainred agriculture in upland red/yetlow poozolic soils
- soils known fo.- their low fertility and acidity.
The World Bank first became involved in the GOI's transmigratior.
program with its new emphasis on low cost. rainfed uolana
agriculture on marginal lands in 1976 with Transmigration I
project (LN 1'18 - IND). This project was intencea to ucgraae
conditions for 12.000 already settled families and estaoiisn a
new sertlement of 4,000 families. both located in Sumatra in tne
rainfed areas of low agricultural productivity considered typical
of the marginal lands in the Other Islands available for future
transmigration projects. Because the existing settlers. who haa
received 2 ha of undeveloped land, were economically deoressed,
new migrants were provided with 5 na of land. of which 1.25 ha
was clean cleared for food crops and 1.0 ha in immature rubber.
Settlers were also to receive draft animals and agricultural in-
puts aimed at promoting early agricultural surpluses.
11



At the time Transmigration II Project was aporaised. althougn
welfare of sectlers in the new Transmigration I site was
encouraging, overall project performance was benind Schecule due
to weak oroject organisation and management. The reorganisation
of the transmigration program mentioned earlier had also resulteo
in delays in implementation and in the timely release of funds.
Thus attention had been drawn to the need to develoo the institu-
tional infrastructure upon which an expanded transmigration
program could be based.
12



3. PROJECT FORMIJLATION
3.1. Preparation
Preparation for Transmigration II Project began with the South
Sumatra Regional Study carried out by Bonn University and Robert
R.Nathan Associates . more derailed information concerning
resources, possible sites and outline physical plans for develop-
ment was provided by the United Kingdom Overseas Development Min-
istry  (0DM).   Site plans,  implementation schedules and bidding
documents for the Transmigration II Project sites were preoared
by the Directorate General of Transmigration in the then Ministry
of Manpower and Transmigration and the Directorate General of
Highways in the Ministry of Public Works.
3.2. Appraisal
In line with the Government's practice for transmigration settle-
ment planning at the time, project design was based on a standard
develooment model which emphasised food croP production. The
shift from partially tree crop  -  based    settlements  such  as
Transmigration I. to settlements based on food crops was both in
resPonse to 'G0I priorities for reducing the country's food
deficit and in response to the need to keep project costs low.
Settlers were grouped in nucleated villages of about 250-500
househclds. Each settler had a 0.25 ha houselot and was allocated
a further 1 ha of land of less than 8% slope for food croo
production  within  2.5   km of the village and 2.25 ha of forest
for the transmigrant to develop.
With the object of promoting early agricultural surpluses, set-
tlers were to be provided. upon arrival, with 1.2$ ha of clean
cleared land allowing the farmers to concentrate on tilling
rather than clearing thr7r land. In addition. settlers would
receive a productive package of fertilisers. pesticides and ex-
tension services. Draft animals. at a ratio of one for every four
families. were also to be provided. The settlers' remaining 2.25
ha was to be cleared and develooed by the transmigrant with the
assistance of the Government according to a plan which was to be
submitted to the Bank by December, 1980.
The Project was appraised by the World Bank in 1978, after
preliminary  development  plans  had  been  Prboared  but  before
completion of detailed village designs. (The consequences of this
in terms of difficulties with identification of suitable land for
settlement were soon to become apparent - see 3.6). A Credit
Agreement  (919-IND)  for   US S67 million and a  Loan  Agreement
(1707-IND) for US $ 90 million between the Government of rn-
13



donesia and the World Bank were signed on June 1. 1.979. The
Project also received an EEC Special Action Credit for US $5.5
million.
The Project was expected to be comPleted by June 30. 1985.
3.3. Project Objectives
The Project was to assist the Government of Indonesia undertake a
major steo in its transmigration program under -Repelita III by
launching a land settlement program for 30,000 families from im-
poverished and ecologically threatened areas of Java, Bali and
Sumatra.  The Project would settle 30.000 families  at  four  new
sites  in  the province of Jambi and would upgrade conditions and
services provided  to  4.000  families  already  settled  in  the
Singkut area. Physical infrastructure, land clearing. agricul-
tural inputs and services and community facilities were to
provided for each site. Technical assistance would be provided to
assist the Government in implementing the Project, developing its
transmigration program for the following five years and estab-
lishing a monitoring and evaluation system.
3.4. Project Description
A full description of the Project is contained in Schedule 2 to
the Credit/Loan Agreement. A summary is provided below-.
The Project consistea of two parts;
Part A: About 30.000 families were to be resettlea in the Aiai
Hilir, Kuamang Kuning. Kubang Ujo and Hitam Ulu settlement areas
and conditions and services for about 4.000 families in the
Singkut settlement area were to be uograded. Accordingly, the
following were to be provided under the Project:
(i)    clearing  of about 37.500 ha of forested land for new
settlers and about 7.500 ha for roads and public facilities;
(ii) construction of about 680 km of access and link roads
and about 1.500 km of village roads in new sites, construc-
tion of about 100 km village roads and upgrading of about
150 km access and village roads in Singkut;
(iii) construction of about 7,550 shallow and 300 deep
wells;
(iv) construction of about 30,000 houses in addition to
community facilities in the new sites;
14



lv)    construction  and upgrading of offices and facilities
for project staff:
(vi) construction of an airstrip at Sarolangun and upgrading
the airstrip at Rimbo Bujang;
(vii) construction of offices, warehouses, extension centres
and related facilities for agricultural supporting services;
(viii) construction of a cattle reception and distribution
center and provision of about 8,750 head of cattle;
(ix)   construction and upgrading  of warehouses and related
facilities for farmers cooperatives;
(x)  distribution to  settlers  of  an  initial  package  of
grain, vegetable seeds and seedlings;
(xi) distribution to settlers of agrochemicals over a three
year period;
(xii) distribution to settlers of rice, other essential
commodities, implements and tools;
(xiii) mobilisation and transportation of settlers to trans-
migration sites;.
(xiv) surveying of site boundaries.  laying out of farm par-
cels and issuing of certificates of title to land.
Part  B:  Institutional  strengthening was provided for under the
Project through the following:
(i)   establishment of  a  monitoring  and  Evaluation  Unit
within   the   then   Office  of  the  Junior  Minister  for
Transmigration;
(ii) training for the personnel of DGA. DGFCA, DGLS. DGC
ana DGT in cost accounting and financial management. plan-
ning and design and construction supervision;
(iii) consulting assistance with identification, survey,
mapping. planning and detailed design for future settlement
areas  under  Government   of   Indonesia's   transmigration
program;
(iv)   agricultural studies at the Transmigration II Project
sites and other possible settlement areas;
(v)   studies by  the  OGT  related  to  the  transmigration
program.
15



3.S. Project Organisation
The project was to be carried out under the same institutional
arrangements as the GOI overall program. While arrangements were
made under the project for land clearing and the Supply of inputs
and suooorting services. and the Presidential Decree of August
1978 had established a framework for closer coordination among
the imolementing agencies, the new system had yet to be fully
tested under ooeration. This was recognised at appraisal as a
major risk pertaining to the project
16



4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Because of the large number of components in the project, wnicn
included all asoects of land development and settlement, the
project was difficult to implement. Progress with imolementation
of  the  various  components  is  described  in   the   following
paragraohs.
4.1. SAR Imolementation Schedule
The project was to implemented from mid -1979 to March 1985 ac-
cording to the SAR implementation schedule reproduced as Figure 1
below.
Figure 1:  Appraisal ImplementaL,:-  Schedule
1980     1981      1982     1983     1984    1985
Land
clearing (ha)  4.500   11,250   11.250   11.250    6.750
Roads
- access  (km)    100       170      170       170      100
- village (km)    370       375      375       375      225
Houses    (no)  .... 3.000 .... 7,500....7,500....7.500 .... 4,500
Settlers  (KK)    ..., 3.000 .. 7.500 .. 7.500 .. 7.500 .. 4,500
4.2. Effectiveness and Start Up
The project was beset with implementation difficulties, some of
which were aPparerit even before project  - fectiveness on  Octooer
4.1979. The difficulties centred around land identification anc
the Singkut uograding program.
4.2.1. Land Identification
As early as August 1979. as more detailed site investigations
came to hand. it was clear that identification of suitable lano
for settlement was a major bottleneck. not only in the project
but also to the implementation of the GOI transmigration program
as whole.
17



The linking, under the standard settlement pianning model. of
food croP production to slope and distance criteria (tee 3.2),
restricted the procortion of land which could be develooed for
settlement  in  sites  with  undulating  tooograoDy and increased
develooment costs per family.
Basea on the August 1979 site investigations, it was clear that
at best. only 17,000 - 20.000 families could be settled in the
proposed sites, significantly less than the 30.000 families
originally envisaged. Much of the Alai Hilir site. whicn had been
proPosed for settlement by o.000 families, could not be used as
the land was much steeper anc more dissected than previously es-
timated and was unsuitaole for food croooing. The DG Highways
design consultants had delineated some SKP (Satuan Kawasan
Pengemoangan, or develooment area) boundaries that included al-
ready settled land. Boundaries therefore had to rearranged.
By August 1982, sufficient land had been mapned in Jambi for
20.000 families but halt of this had to eliminated because it lay
in oroouction forest which the OG Forestry was not preDared to
reclassify. No other sites in Jambi were suitable for large scale
settlement but land for about 10,000 families had been identified
in South Sumatra.
The Bank proposed to the Government a change in farm model, which
if adooted. was exoected to have resulted in increased value of
agricultural  production  and  reduced  development  costs.   The
proposed  farm  model  would  have  reduced  farm  size  from 3.S
ha/family to 2.5 ha/family, largely through decreasing food crop
area from 1.0 ha to 0.2 ha. and developing 2 ha of rubber.. This
woula nave substantially reduced the project's requirements for
land of slooe less than 8%. The consequent alleviation of land
shor:age problemz was expected to have had a very positive impact
on project imolementation.
The acoption of the prooosed mode{. which emohasised the develop-
ment of mixea cash crops ana rubber, would have necessitated the
setting uo of additional institutional arrangements because ac
that time. the conceot of tree crop development on a smallholder
basis was a new one. The PNP/PTP estate sector was heavily in-
volved with smaliholder development surrounding nucleus estates
but managerially overstretched. Charging them with the respon-
sibilicy of rubber development in transmigration areas was deemed
to be unwarranted and proposals for changing the farm model were
consequently droppea.
The project as appraised had included an amount of US S 23 mil-
lion for maoping, consultants. research and training but in
resPonse to the difficulties with settlement site identification,
both in the project and in the GOI transmigration program as a
whole. aPout US S 60 million (SAR estimate US S 23.1 million) had
been committed by mid 1982 for all such services. The increase
18



was comorised of US $ 28.8 million for strergtnening site- selec-
tion ana evaluation in Team Khusus KO by engaging 11 consulting
firms and an advisory grouo: US S 5.8 million for Phase II
stucies for Transmigration III:  and US S 2.4 million for maDping
aoairional transmigration sites.
4.2.2. Singkut Upgrading
The Singkut uograding program was delayed in part because of am-
biguity in the SAR about actions to be taKen. A detailed program.
for Singkut had been prepared in 1980 by Government agencies witn
Bank assistance but the cost per family was relatively high tUS
S2000) while the likely increase in production was relatively
low. Tree crops were not includec because tney had not been
provided for in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
4.3. Procurement
As of Seotember 1981. disbursements were running more than 50 S
behind appraisal estimates. Nearly all key agencies were ex-
periencing procurement problems.  partly because project   proce-
dures differed from tmose of the Government (some of which had
been introduced after appraisal and therefore could not have
been anticipated).
major procurement issues were:
(i) land ciearing - the SAR reauired very large land clear-
ing packages (9,000 ha and about US S 14 million) imple-
mented over a three year period. Uncer the GOI program.
lana clearing pacKages were one SKP (I.SwO - 2.000 familles,
in size, implemented over a period of two years.
(ii) tendering - the GOI program allowed tendering for lana
clearing on the basis of Phase II studies. The SAR permitted
tendering for land clearing only after Phase IIIA stuaies
were available, which meant delays of arouna 18 months.
(iii) agricultural inputs - under GOI procedures, agricul-
tural inputs were not generally procured on the basis of ICS
as the SAR had required.
(iv) livestock - tne SAR called for international tender
for cattle. This was uneconomic. the cost of imported cattle
being twice that of domestically procured cattle.
19



4.4. Project Reformulation
By 1982, the project was experiencing major delays in the iden-
tification of suitable land. settlement and upgrading of Singkut.
slow disbursements and substantial cost overruns. Estimated total
project cost was US S 360 million comPared to the appraisal
figure of US S 242 million. Land clearing and road construction
were one year behind schedule. again primarily-due to problems
with implementing the farm model proposed in the SAR. Two land
clearing contracts. each for a total of 6.000 families. were un-
der implementation. Only about 1,800 ha had been fully cleared
and work had just begun on about 1,200 ha.
A major project review was therefore carried out by the Bank in
mid 1982. The principle changes in project design were. a reduc-
tion  in  the  number  of  families  to be settled from 30.000 to
20r000 and the reallocation of about US S60 million for .mapping
and consultant services.
4.4.1. Revised Project Targets
Table 4.1 compares revisea and original project targets for prin-
cipal components.
Table 4.1: Original and Revised Project Targets
Aporaisal        Revised
Item                                1979            1982
Families settled (KK)             30.000           20,000
Lana clearea (ha)
- agricultural                    37,500           25,000
- roaas. public facilities         7.500            S.000
Roads (km)                         2.180            1.450
Water supply (wells)
- new areas                        7,000            5,000
- Singkut                            850            1,000
Houses (no)                       30,000           20.000
Airstrip                        included           deleted
Cattle (head)
- new areas                        7,900            5.250
- Sinciut                            850            1.050
Cooperatives (no)
-new sites                             75              40
- Singkut                               7               7
20



4.4.2. Singkut Upgrading Prograii
In the Sank's 1982 project review,  the Singkut upgrading program
was also revisea. Certain comoonents which were provideo in tne
SAR were scaled down in order to reduce costs (livestock
distribution,   FCC   and   KUD  development  and  infrastructure
improvement); some comoonents were deleted because of their non-
rePlicability (the proposed distribution of three years of free
fertiliser); two components which were not originally envisageo
were included to address the problem of declining crop yields and
promote sustained develooment (tree croo development and soil
conservation); and the remaining components were unchanged
(construction of markets, storage facilities and new classrooms).
Total cost of the revised Singkut program was only sligntly
higher at US $8.46 million '2ompared to estimated US $ 8.31 mil-
lion cost of the GOI proposed program.
4.4.3. Loan/Credit Reallocation
The reallocation of the Loan/Credit proceeds conseauent upon the
oroject reformulation are shown in taole 4.2.
Table  4.2:   Allocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
Aopraisal          Revised
Category                    Allocation         Allocation
Am      %          Reim   %
I   Civil works             81.0    S2         61.7   40
Ir  Vehicles.gools          11.3     7         11.3    7
cartle,equip
III Settler relocation      16.0    10         16.0   10
and subsidies
IV  Consultants services   2'.1    15          60.0   38
and surveys
V   Agrochemicals            7.4      5         4.0   2.5
VI  Unallocated             18.2    11          4.0   2.5
TOTAL                      157.0   100%       157.0  100%
4.4.4. Procurement Changes
As a result of the project review. procurement procedures were
changed to reflect the Current GOI practices. Land clearing was
packaged in smaller contracts of one SKP in size over a two year
period. Tendering was allowed to proceed on the basis of Phase 1I
rather than Phase IIIA studies. particularly as the Bank land
clearing contracts, which were much larger packages. had not
21



proved anY less expensive than GO! contracts. Agrochemicals coula
be  procured accordina to GOI procedures as these had  proved  to
be economic ana efficient. Local crocurement of cattle. althougn
initially re3ected by DGLS,  was suosecuently agreea to following
discussions with the World Bank concerning the reduced risks and
costs involved.
4.5. Civil Works
A detailed discussion of the imolementation of civil works under
the  project  is  contained in Annex 3.  Summary observations are
presented below.
4.5.1. Investigations and Design
The strengthening of site selection and evaluation through the
engagement of 11 consulting firms was referred to as tne
Screening, Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering, SFSE-aO
Program. Under this program, a total of 144 sites were to be
screened (Phase I1 of the transmigration Planning process ). 37
were to be taken to a detailed design stage (Phase II1). which
was to be comoleted prior to land clearing, and feasibility
studies were to be carried out on 19 of these settlements. The
work was solit into 11  contract  oackages,  each  consisting  of
Phase  II  and  Phase  III  studies.  Consultant  consortia  were
mooilisea during the early part of 1981.
During the program, difficulties arose with three consultant
firms  due  to both technical ano contractual factors exacerbatec
by an acoarent lack of cooperation between the foreign ana local
associates.  One firm was replace;z.  anotner nad its contract ai-
terea to exclude any Phase III work and a third firm had to be
temoorarily withdrawn from Phase III activicies while staff were
reorganiZed and arrangements with their associate were imorovea.
During 1982/87, five of the SFSE consultants carried out an acdi-
tional  10  Phase II studies each as extensions of their on going
contracts.
The concracts were let with a planned duration of 9 months with
tne provision that Phase III work should commence in month 5.
Phase III studies all took lok.;-: than planned to complete and it
became aoparent that a more realistic contract length would have
been 15 months. The task faced by the consultants was a very dif-
ficult one.  In often inhospitable terrain,  transport,  supplies
and food had to be organised for field teams of 5 to 10
professionals, 10 to 20 technicians and up to 100 labourers.
The ouality of work under the SFSE program ranged from excellent
to unacceptable.  150 Phase II reports were completed.  An  addi-
22



tional 5 Phase II reports were submit:ed but three of tnese were
inconclusive and two were for areas icentified as National parks.
Full Phase 1I studies were not mace of these areas.
Because MOT was under enormous pressure to meet transmigration
targets. the data upon which selection of sites for Phase II
stuoies  were  made was not always adequate.  Of the 15G Phase II
stucies. 80 SKP's were considered unsuitable for further study.
principally because of steeo slooes and/or the presence of swamos
or waterlogged and flooded land. Of the 70 SKP's recommended for
further study, only 24 SKP's had more than 50% suitaole land.
Thus only 20% of the total area surveyea was found suitable for
further study.
The 24 SKP's selected at Phase II were studied at Phase III
level. The settlement capacity from the Phase III studies was
30.323  families  - 14,290 in Sumatra,  1,006 in Ambon,  4,779 in
Irian Java and 10.248 in Kalimantan. The total area studied in
Phase III was about two thirds of the area recommended for fur-
ther stuov at Phase II. There were two main reasons for the
reduction:
(i)    the  occurrence  of  slooes steecer than indicated at
Phase II and a corresocnding recuction in land suitable for
rainfed agriculture a6d houselots:
(ii) slopes revealed were much tne same at both Phase II and
Phase III but Phase III studies snowed the flatter land oc-
cured in blocks too small for develooment.
The  most uo to date information available on the number of Phase
LII stucies actually imolemented relates to Januarv 31. 1986. The
s|tuation at that tIme is shown in t*-le 4.3.
23



Taole  4.3:  Actuai Imolementation of Phase III Studies
Provit.ce       Description
Riau           7  sites  planned,   4  being  imolemented  for  a
target 3468 KK, actual settlement 674 KK
Bengkulu       I site planned and implemented to 350 KK
S. Sumatra     4  sites  planned.  2  fully  imolemented,   2  in
progress. target settlement 5594 KK. actual
settlement 2039 KK
W. Kalimantan 3 sites planned, target 3269 KK. implemented
407 KK, land clearing work never completed
C. Kalimantan   5  sites  planned,  4  implemented,  target  4885
KK. actual settlement 3015 KK
S. Kalimantan   2  sites  planned.  I  implemented,  target  2275
KK. actual settlement 114 KK
Maluku         1  site  Planned  and  imolemented.   target  1006
KK. actual settlement unknown
Iriar Java     2 sites pAanned. both imolemented, target 4779
KK, actual settlement 269 KK
Exoerience during tne SFSE oroqram in undertaking Phase II and
III studies and experience with the aoplication of the plans
produced indicated that certain procedural changes needed to be
made. Phase III studies were intended to produce, before a site
was cieared. detailed plans at 1:5.000 scale which were to be
used as a basis for land clearing and construction. It did not
prove feasible to produce olans that could be used witrout
modification, due largely to the difficulty of producing suffi-
ciently  detailed  tooograchic  maps  in  forested  terrain.   In
addition. there was a continuing pressure to keeo costs to a
minimum. Consequently methods were changed so that detailed sur-
vey and design were only completed after land clearing.
The activities in the modified planning procedures were clearly
separated and referred to as Phase IIIA and III8. At Phase IIIA.
prior to land clearing, activities are aimed at the preparation
of a structure Plan at 1:20,000 scale, showing blocks of land for
various purPoses together with tentative village road alignments.
Phase 1118 activities are to prepare a detailed plan at a scale
of 1:5.000. showing individual holdings, public facilities and
actual road alignments within the cleared land.
24



4.5.2. Advisory Grouo
The Aavisory Group was formed to assist in the direction ano su-
oervision of the 11 SFSE consultants and with other transmigra-
tion pianning activities as reauested. The group was expanded in
June 1982 so that advisers could be assigned to six provincial
offices to monitor planning progress on all settlement sites
where site preparation or construction was taking place.
The Advisory Group assisted with the preparation of guicdelines
for the Plan-As-You-Proceed Methodology (PAYP) which was devised
as an emergency planning method to maintain the rate of settle-
ment development during 1981/82. A total of 83 sites were studiea
uncer PAYP procedures.  The method is similar co the  Phase  1Z-A
ano   III8   studies  in  that  detailed  planning  follows  land
clearance. But the int2nsity of resource surveying is much lower
ana no attempt is made to define site-specific agricultural
systems.
The response to Advisory Group recommendations *in technical areas
was generally good. The Advisory Group was continued under rrans-
migration rII and Transmigration V Projects.
4.5.3. Site Preparation
Land clearing and construction of roads, bridges and culverts
were carried out by a number of local contractors in a series of
seven seoarate Land Clearing and Development Contracts, under the
supervision of Engineering Consultants. An eighth contract was
for imoroving the access road to the Kelingi site  and  construc-
jton ^f a land drainage system in a low swamoy area of the same
sire.
Design plans for each contract had to be modified and often
recuired a new design to fit the actual conditions found in the
field. This in turn required major adjustments in the cuantities
as stated in the contracts. Many of the technical soecifications.
esoecially at the beginning of the project, were found to be in-
acoropriate and had to be changed. All contractors claimed price
escalation on each contract.
25



The total area of land cleared under the project is shown below.
Table 4.4:      Area of Land Cleared (ha)
Site              House   Public  Agric   Total   Cover  Phosphate
Lots    Areas   Lots              Crop
Kubang Ujo         322    298      1287    1907       -       29
Hitam Ulu.        1595   1057      6378    9030      1881    4790 $
K.Kuning          1875   1629      7500   11004      3601    8475 s
B.Teluk            75i    657      2912    4320      1714    2425
Kelingi           4'2    370       1750    2558       625    2189
TOTAL            4981   4011    19827   28819        7821   18172
s   does not include about 1578 ha houselots and  first  agricul-
tural lots spread by settlers
s*  incluaes  about 2000 ha houselots and first agricultural lots
spread by settlers
N.oLe that the site nomenclature adooted by MOT does not always
correspond with lana clearing contract descriptions.
Kelingi is          SKP IV-C       SP*s 1.2,3,4.5,6
Bingin Teluk is    SKP I-C         SP's 7.8.9,10.11
SKP I-8       SP I extension
SKP I-A       SP 5
=KP I-C       SP's 7.8.9,10,11 extension
Kubang L'.J is      SKP XXYI-C    SP's A.8,C.D,E
Hitam Ulu is        SKP VIII-Hl   SP's A.8,C,D,E.F.G
SKP VII-F     SP's A,8.C,0
SXP VIII-H2   SP's H.I
SKP VIII-H2   SP's A/8.12.C.D
SKP VIII-HI   SP J
SKP VII-F     SP E
Kuamang Kuning is  SKP VII-B      SP's A.82,C.D
SKP VII-A     SP's A.B.C
SKP VII-B     SP 8L
SKP VII-C     SP's A,B.C,D
SKP VII-0     SP's A.B.C.D.E
SKP VII-E     SP's A,B.C
26



.Table  4.5  provi(deS 2etails on the length of roads,  bridges ar,
cuiverts construc:ed.
rabia  4.5:    Roads. Brioges ana Culverts
Roads (km)            8ridges    Culverts
Site        village  Access  Main  Total    No   m           m
Kubang Ujo   51.45    4.3   24.52   80.27    9   185        2688
Hitam Ulu   204.41      -   134.72  Z39.13   29   510    12147
K.Kuning    240.55   39.26  46.95  326.76   26   370        8427
a.Teluk     105.82   14.45  17.32  137.59  1'   215         4211
Kelingi      54.7_   26.30  27.97  109.00    6   105        1326
TOTAL       656.96   84.31 251.48  992.75   85  1385    28801
Note: length of bridges and culverts is comoined length
Comments on the land develooment works carriea out in each of the
sites are given in the following paragraphs.
4.5.  .1. Kuoang Ujo
Work at this site was undertaken as part of the first contract.
Package III. wnich was for 6.000 KK at Kuoang Ujo and HIitam Ulu
areas comoi.nec, As can oe expected during the imolementation of a
sizeable conszruc:ion contract with very limited prior experience
of similar c_nrsructon available. many cnanges to the contract
were require'o.
At the beginning. cesign plans were availaole for 2.873 KK at
Kubang  Ujo    but  conditions  encountered  curing  construction
required the re'4uction of the area to of.3 wnich was sufficient
for 1,200 KK only. The method of land clearing used was bulldozer
with shearing blade. The final area cleared for first agricul-
tural lots was 1.287 ha. sufficient for 1287 households. Althougn
it can not be confirmed. it has been scatea that additional
households were settled.
The terms of the original contract document did not aoPly to many
situations found in the field. Three contract amenaments ano
several  change orders were made in an attemot to better organize
and execute the work. Finall1y. Amendment no 4, signed on 30 Oc-
tooer 1981. made substantial modification of the methods ano
quantities of tne construction works. specifications, unit prices
and conditions of price escalation. It eliminated the requirement
for the land clearing contractor to harvest and stockpile com-
mercial  and  usable  timber   and changed the specifications for
27



culverts from timber box to concrete as the latter were -no more
exoensive and were stronger structurally. These modifications be-
came the basis for all the following contracts in the project.
4.5.3.2. Hitam Ulu
The majority of works at this site were carried out under Package
III in conjunction with the Kubang Ujo works (see aoove). There
was a subsequent contract for an additional 1.750 KK. Of the lat-
ter  area  cleared.  267  ha  was  declared  to  be a reservation
(biosphere) and the final area under the second contract was suf-
ficient for only 1,578 KK.
A part of the roadway funds for the second contract had been usee
to Pay for work done under the first contract on the grounds that
some of the roads constructed would serve both the old and new
works. But some of the new areas were set away from the. ola
areas   and required new road construction,  funds for which were
not available. The long delay which ensued in the approval of the
contract amenedment for the additional roadway funding was the
main reason why the comoletion date for the second contract had
to be extended from April 1986 to March 1987.
4.S.3.Z. Kuamang Kuning
WorKs were carried out in two packages - the firs, of 6.000 KK
and the second of 1.500 KK - but the same contractor was selected
for  both.    The Package II contract for 6.000 KK which followed
the Package III contract for Kubang Ujo/Hitam Ulu required exten-
sive revision based on the first 15 months experience in the
field. Uncer the Package II contract. the planting of cover crop
seed with fertilizer was limitea to rolling areas as designated
bv the Consulting Engineer. However, the second contract requireo
all  the  cleared area.  except the public facility areas,  to be
fertilisea and planted with cover croPs.  The spreading  of  rock
phoSphate was limited bY the sucoly delivered by the Government.
The contractor proved to be highly caoable. The construction work
was of a good standard and comoleted within the time scnedlc
provided by the contract.
4.5.3.4. Bingin Teluk
Two contracts covered the land  development  activities  in  this
site. The SKP I-C contract to settle 1499 KK experienced very
li:tle problem in developing the site following the design pla...
Construction was completed by the contract date. The only incom-
plete  item  was the spreading of rock phosphate as the stock was
late in being made available at the site by Transmigration.
The second contract for a further 1.500 KK had to be reduced to
1.ZOOKK as some areas were found to be not usable and others were
claimed to be production forest by the forestry Oepartment and
28



declared not available. The continuous change of plans and search
for replacement areas caused the contractor to fall behind in his
work schedule ana the orginal comoletion date of 4 June 1986 had
to be extended to 21 November 196&.
4.5.Z.S. Kelingi
Ttie execution of this contract was less than satisfactory due to
the inexoerience and lack of caoability of the contractor. The
contractor's  equipment  was   not   adequate   and   often   not
operational.  Management  and sucervision was lacking.  Even with
considerable assistance and direction from Transmigration offi-
cials and the Consulting Engineer. tne contractor still did not
perform up to the exoected standard. The work. originally
scneduled to be completed in September 1985. had to be extendeo
until December 1986. Part of the delay was due to the necessity
of waiting for the drainage system to be in place before lana
clearing could be completed. The contractor. through use of inao-
propriate and inadequate equipment, was unable to comolete the
harrowing as schedulea and this had to be carried olut by the set-
tlers manually.
Access  to  the  site  is  by  an existing logging road which was
upgraded under a separate contract, the last to be performed un-
der' the project. This contract covered both access road construc-
tion and land drainage works.   Access road construction  startea
in January 1986 and was comoleted in Seotember 1986. Drainage
work began in May 1980 and was finished in April 1987. In the
Lana drainage work, lack of attention to the orderly felling and
handling of trees resulted in many trees ending up in areas
planned for drainage ditches. This was a serious obstacle during
the ditch excavation and meant lost time for all concerned
parties.
In mid 1984. the World Bank aoproved a contract for an additional
1500 KK at Kelingi IV 0 but in February 1985, MOT were prooosing
a new contractor. Because site development and house construction
could not have been comoleted before mid 1986 at the earliest.
the Bank withdrew its agreement to the contract.
4.5.4. Works Supervision
The services of the supervising Engineering Consultants began in
July 1930. conforming with the commencement of the first land
settlement preparation contract. They were originally to be of a
four year duration but due to considerable difficulties encoun-
tered with land rignts, settlement preparation contracts were
rescheduled. resulting in the supervisory consulting services
contract being extended until the end of March 1987.
29



For  the  first four years.  management and administration of the
Engineering Consultants was by tme Directorate of Land Settlement
Preparation (PLP). From the beginning of FY 1984/85. managemenc
came under the control of the Bureau of Planning wizhin MOT. The
five cnanges in MOT project manager over the perioa of tne
project, plus changes in personnel of the Consultants. were a
constraint to the efficient utilisation *of the suoervisory
services.
Althougn problems were encountered during works imolementation.
sucm as the clearing of steec slooes, trees. felled in natural
drainage  ways.   chain  saw  gangs  felling  in  areas  not  yet
authorized by the supervising consultant, failed culverts and
lack of road maintenance. these problems were. for the most part,
successfully overcome. The works were comoleted within substan-
tial comoliance of the contract documents and in accordance with
the intentions and criteria of planners and designers. The
quality of the works would have suffered significantly without
the construction supervision that was provided.
4.5.5. Land Disoutes
Oifficulties associated with obtaining suitable land persisted
throughout the project. despite new sites being surveyea by the
planning consultants and passea througn the screening of BINA
PROGRAM and its advisers. and resulted in serious implementation
delays. Under the first Singin Teluk land clearing contract. work
had to be stopoed for three months because Forestry had not yet
releasea the area. Under the second land clearing contract, only
an area sufficient for about 300 families appeared certain be-
cause other areas were occupied by well established rubber and
rice fields of local families and were not available.
Problems with land disputes ac Bingin Teluk persist. At the time
of the PCR, more than one quarter of the settlers still dc, not
have Lahan II areas because land previously released by the
Governor for settlement was subsequently classified by DG
Forestry as production forest.   Local  authorities  beleive  the
productive timber value of the concerned areas is insignificant.
Both the Bank and MOT have urged the Minister of Forests to
reclassify the area to Conversion Forest and then release to
Transmigration. The situation. which remains unresolved. is
serious as it would not be possible to find alternative areas for
Lahan 1I which are sufficiently close to settlers' house plots.
4.5.6. Land Clearing Methods
Several major revisions had to be made to Land Clearing and Land
Preparation Technical Soecifications of the Contract Documents
because the sites, although all within a 50 km radius. each had
30



very  distinct  topograohy,  vegetation,  climate and soils.  The
major modifications to land clearing methods, as stated in Amena-
ment No 4 (30 October 1981) tO the Contract Agreement for the
KUbang Ujo contract. included the following:
(iJ discontinued stockpiling of commercial and usable logs
by the land clearing contractor. The original volume in-
clucea in the Bid Schedule  (205 cu m per  ha)  was  grossly
overestimated. In Kubang Ujo XXII-C. the first area to be
cleared, there was only acout 25 to 35 cu m per ha of
timoer. less than half of which was considered commercial.
Since the SAR estimata was 35 cu m per ha.  it is not  clear
wny the bid scheaule included the much higher figure.
Nevertheless. at only 25 - 35 cu m per ha. it was determinea
that stoc'kpiling was uneconomic and impractical. The harvest
of  commercial  logs  became  the  forest   concessionaire's
resoonsibility.   The  remaining  usable  logs  were  to  be
windrowed and burned because no practical program* existed
for their use.
(ii) the planting of grasses in narrow strips on the contour
line between the windrows was imoractical. Contrary to
originai intentions. the area between windrows could not be
diskea and planted until burning and final clean up was
done, but burning was specifically forbidden in the techni-
cal specifications. Planting of grasses was replaced by
planting cover crops for erosion control.
(iii.. the deoth of disk harrowing was changed from '0 cm to
tne more agronomically sound deoth of 15-20 cm.
A frequenc Zomolaint from World Bank missions was tne clearing or
areas  with  more  than  8%  slope  and the felling of trees into
waterways.  Part of the problem was that it was very difficult to
icentify areas with sloces over 8% and natural waterways covered
by dense vegetation while the trees were standing.
Cover crop seeds used (Centrosema pubescens CP  and  Calopqqqrnium
mucunoides CM) were not those set out in the technical specifica-
tions (which stated that the legume Pueraria ghageoloidee should
be used) nor were the seeds innoculated. The cover croos used
have slow growth. recuiring a minimum of 6 months to produce a
comolet-  and effective cover.  In some instances,  transmigrants
arrived on site within 3 months of  the  planting  of  the  cover
crop.  In  this  situation,  the cover crop is not really useful.
There was a limited search for a faster growing legume without
success.
Fertilisers were to be acolied to the same areas as for the cover
crops. In practice. the rate of application varied from site to
31



site. The original fertilizer rates (50 kg/ha urea; 1-00 kg/ha
TST;  50 kg/ha  K/L)  were  recommenoed  in  nOpes  of  promoting
vigorous growth of the cover croo. The actual exoerience was that
the reLatively high fertilizer rates haa little positive effect
wnen   spreas  at   the  same  time  as  the  cover  croP  seed.
Suosequently. lower rates were applied as they were found
adequate.
Rock phosphate was to be spread on the harrowed ground ac the
rate of 500 kg/ha. Two problems arose - it was difficult to
scread the fine dusty material and the large quantities which
were needed at each site were not available. In two sites. a
significant quantity of rock phosohate was soreaa by the settlers
themselves.
4.5.7. Airstrips
Aside from the purchase of land. no other action had been in-
itiated on airstrip construction or upgrading by mid 1982. Given
that:
(i) locations and scheduling of sites had been shifted in
the course of implementation,
(ii) all transmigrants would be settled in Jambi before the
airstrip could be completed. and
(iii) economic activity in the area would not suooort a com-
mercial airfield.
th iz component was deleted in the revised project.
4.6. Site oevelopment and Settler Relocation
4.6.1. Houses and Public Facilities
in the early stages of settlement under the project. there were
delays  in  starting  the  construction  of  houses  and   ouolic
facilities once land was cleared and the sites prepared. This was
due to late DIP provisions and slow contract aojroval procedures.
The problem was overcome and houses were constructed at Hitam Ulu
and tne South Sumatra sites  immediately  after  the  sites  were
prepared.
The quality of construction of the houses and public facilities
was in accordance with contract specifications.
32



4.6.2. Resettlement
The SAR implementation schedule envisaged transmigrants would
begin arriving on site in June 1981 and all 30,000 would be
settled by March 1985. The revised target for the project was the
settlement of 20,000 families (KK). Settlement began in 1981 but
progress was slow. Settlement progress over the years 1981 to
1987  is  de%cribed  in table 4.6.  Total settlement achieved was
19.622 KK, 98% of revised target.
Table  4.6:   Settlement Progress 1981 - 1987 (in KK)
Site        1981  1982   i983   1984   198s   1986   1987   Total
Kubang Ujo   559   238    403                                   1Z00
Hitam Ulu                 2540   1409   1324   1088             6361
K. Kuning                 2282   1229   3287    702             7500
S. Teluk                                 1022   1637    152    2811
Kelingi                                  1003    707      40    1750
Total        559   238   5225   2638   6636   4134    192   19622
Cum.Tot      559   797   6022   8660  15296  19430  19622
Of the total number of transmigrant families settled,  1.799 (9%)
were local transmigrants in line with the Government's policy for
reserving about 10% of all transmigration project sites for local
people.
Precise daca on the number of families permanently leaving the
sites could not be ootained. From discussions with officials, it
appears that about 10% of original settlers at Kubang Ujo per-
manently decarted. mostly in the first 18 months when the site
was severely affected by drought. All have been replaced
and  together with natural population growth,  the numoer of set-
tiers at Kubang Ujo has grown to 1331 KK in 1987.
4.7. Cattle
At  the  time  of  appraisal.   it  was  recognised  that  labour
availability at peak periods would be a constraint to food crop
production. To overcome this. and also to provide a source of or-
ganic fertilizer, the project provided cattle at the ratio of
one cow to four farmers. While the SAR did not specifically state
the time at which cattle snould be distributed after settler
arrival. it was implicit in the overall plan for agricultural
development that it would need to be within two to three years,
it five-year projection targets were to be acheived.
33



The DGLS was to purchase anr, distribute 8,.!i0 head Ci cattle to
transmiqrants.  7,900 at the new sites and 850 at Sinukut.  Also to be
established by DGL'LS were a cattle reception and distribution center
with holdinq proutnds and bull units in all villages thr-ouahout the
project sites.  i-emakle cattle were to be 7/8 to Pure Brahman imported
from} a suitable diirsease free source.  Tweinty percent of the bulls were
to be imported Brahinans and the remairnino uu% were to be locally
procured Suniba/,lnoole cross.  The SAFR, expected that farmers receivinq
cattle would estabiish aboutt 0.25 ha -of suitable pasture and would
repay the first calf +rom their oriqinal cow to DU3LS for future
distribution in the proiect area.
4.7.1.   Distribution
The first shipments of imported -rahman cattle from Au<stralia began in
198:3.  Some 1,569 cows were distributed in Sinqkut (995), Kubang Ujo
(294), and Hitam Ulu (280).  In Sinokut. however, 33;. of the
distributed cattle died before the end of September 1985.  Mortality
rates in the other sites were only 9% over the same period. The main
causes of the Sinqkut problem were: absenteeism and off-farm activities
of cattle owners; poor cattle manaoement; and mineral deficiencies
resultinq in undernourishment..
Althouqh it cannot be determined whether it was the main cause of the
problem, the mineral deficiency situation at Sinqkut is worthy of
further comment.  It became apparent in late 1985.  A subsequent search
of the project area indicated about 307. of the cattle on the project
sites showed clinical signs of miner-al d._<-+iency and were in very poor
condition. Remedial trials were introduced by the consultants in late
1985 to early 1986 but in the long run., improved feeding practices need
to be applied.
In part because of the unsuccessful exp4rience with imported cattle at
Singkut, the decision was taken not to import any further cattle.  All
subsequent shipments of cattle were locally procured Bali cattle.
The supply of 7,700 head of Bali cattle was divided into two contracts
of 4,000 head at-id 3,700 head which were siqned in 1985 and 1986
respectively. Cattle distribution activities were to be concentrated
at Kuamanig Kuning and Hitam Ulu in Jambi Province and at Binain Teluk
and Kelinqi in South Sumatra Province.  Only small numbers of cattle
had to be distributed to Kubang Ujo and Sinqkut as these sites had
r-eceived closed to their quota of cattle from the earlier Brahman
shipments. Given the breed's hioher fertility, repayments of Bali
cattl'i were raised to two yearling calves within five years.
After several postponements, the first shipment of 995 head arrived in
June 1986. With the three subsequent shipments in 1986 - 998 head in
July, 839 head in October and 1,020 head in December - the total cattle
distributed by the end of 1986 (3,852 head) was about half the reouired
quantity. In February i987, a further 670 or so cattle were
distributed at Binain Teluk and Kelingi.
34



There were problems encountered with the cattte distribution program:
(i)   Weak Proqram Matagement.
Staff were inexperienced. Communications between the
project manager residing in Jambi and the field manager
residing at Margoyoso were poor. It was not until ten days
after the fact, for instance, that project staff learned of
the arrival of the first shipment of Bali cattle and even
then. the cattle arrived via Jambi town and r.ot via the,
Padang quarantine station as expected.  The credit contract
administrative process was very slow. It could take weeks
for a farmer to receive his signed contract.
(ii)  Poor Selection Procedures.
Selection procedures took place after, not before.
distribution of animals to farmers. A week after
distribution, some of the rejected animals were removed from
the site but animals whose acceptance was delayed remained
with the farmers until further notice. This practice
created great confusion amongst field personnel and added tco-
the problems of recording and inventory. Most animals were
properly selected against defects and diseases but not
always for age ?nd size.  Of the 3,852 head delivered in the
first four shipments, only 74 were rejected, qivinq a final
acceptance of 3,778. However seven of the rejected animals
remained on site and are included in the total of cattle
distributed as shown in Table 8.
(iii) Animal Health.
In addition to the major problem of ttie mineral deficiency
which first became apparent at Singkut, the inadequate
supplv of druqs and medicines for veterinary use was a
continual constraint to animal health improvement.
Herd development in the project sites is shown in the following two tables.
labie 4.7:   Herd Development - Brahman Cross Cattle
Site          Original   Distn         Population as at end 1986    X
c         B         c     B    Calves   Total   change
Hitam Ulu        280        70       290    97    165        552    + 58.
Kubang Ujo       294        58       335   129    159        623    + 77z.
Sinqkut          995       128       492   146    124        762    - 3wf.
Total          1,569       256    1,117   37f    448       1.937    +  67
Note:    Fiqures +or bulls include the additional 61 Ongole bulls which
were distributed in 1984/85. 85 females were withdrawn from Sinokut - 23
were placed in Hitam Ulu and the other 62 were kept in RDC.  All RUC
animals subsequently died.
35



Table 4.8s    r stribution of Bali Cattle
Site                Cows       Bulls         Total     Date of arrival
Sinqkut              409         -             409      12/86
Kuamang Kuning    1,417         205          1,622     6/86, 7/86
Hitam Ulu          1,300        172          1,472     6/86, 10/86, 12/86
Kubang Ujo           282         -             282      12/86
South Sumatra*       670         -             670     2/87
Total              4,078        377          4,455
* Precise details not available at the time of the PCR - subsequently
estimated to be 670 received and distributed.
Besides the distribution of Bali cattle, a small number of Ongole bulls
were distributed in 1986 - to Hitam Ulu (13 head), Kubang Ujo (18) and
Singkut (30).
At the end of April 1987, DGLS requested an extension of the Closing Data
on the Loan to allow procurement of approximately 3,000 head of cattle for
settlers 2n the South Sumatra sites. The Bank denied this request because
the proposed new delivery schedule was overly ambitious, the cattle
shortfall should have been predicted in early January and the amount of
expenditure involved (about US$ 0.7 million) was relatively small.
Satisfactory alternative arrangements have been reached with the World
Bank/IFAD project to provide the remaining cattle. Some deliveries should
take place in the 1987 calendar year and the balance, at the beginning of
1988. The cattle will enter into the World Bank/IFAD registration system.
4.1.7a    Cattle Data Reconciliations
Wnen compiling the PCR, it was found to be impossible to reconcile the
various data, on cattle numbers presented in consultants reports and the
firnal results must be accepted as a best approximation.
Euroconsult found on arrival in February 1986 that the data and records
were so confused for original dropping that they decided, a complete census
and re-enumerations was needed. In spite of their best efforts, the data
for original drop and 1986 drop was not fully reconciled by December 1986.
36



4.7.2. Cattle Reoayments
To handle repayment and sale of cat:le. a Project management Unit
was established within the Dinas Peternakan known as SATGAS. Ap-
proximately 289 head of repayment cattle have been handed over to
new farmers by the committee.  To date,.  no animals have yet been
(legally) sold.
Table  4.9:    Cattle Repayments
Area                  1985               1986             Total
Cows    Bulls    Cows    Bulls    Cows   Bulls
Singkut                      10       22        38      25     48
Kubang Ujo        12        12        Ca        69      70     81
Nitam Ulu         11         1S       21        18      32     33
Total             26        37       101       125    127    162
Given the high mortality and low fertility in the Singkut
animals. recaymients well behind scheaule. However there has been
a marked increase in birtn rates since 1985/86 which will result
in a considerable excansion in rediszribution of. animals in the
near future. While this should not present a problem for female
cattle. there is a limited aemand for bulls for breeding purposes
and the majority should be  used  for  fattening  and  slaughter.
There is a need to establish a orogram for tnis activity, pos-
sibly by farmers on special contracts.
To date.  no culling of cows or bulls.  even though found sterile
or  unsuitable  tor  breeding purposes,  has been carriea out nor
have systems for this been proposed.
4.7.-7. Fodder Production
Very few farmers have complied with the regulation concerning
fodder oroduction. but with good reason. Food c.ops receive a
higner priority and the alternative to establishing 0.25 ha of
grassland of planting along borders and bunds not only provides
fodder for the cattle but also reduces soil erosion. All farmers
have depended on natural grasses for the supply of roughage with
tethering animals along the roadside and handfeeding of natural
grasses being the common practice. Holding grounds have had a
very limited use for additional fodder supoly.
37



As long as the cattle population is limited. there can be little
objection to these practices.  But witn raoidly increasing cattle
numoers, the Quantities of natural grasses will prove to be
insufficient. For this reason, farmers will need to be encouraged
to increase their planted areas and continue to plant grasses on
any emPty border or bunds in their fields.
During 1986. some cattle owners were provided with planting
material but the quality of some seeds was been poor and the
amount distributed not sufficient to meet the above mentioned
requirements. Distribution of solits and other materials stooped
toward the end of 1986 for no apparent reason.
4.7.4. Use of Draft Animals
The SAR stated that a major justification for the provision of
cattle was their potential as draft animals. However, no arrange-
ments were made under the project or in the original terms of
reference for the DGLS consultants, for provision of ploughs.
training of animals or the promotion of this aspect. In the last
DGLS livestock consultancy. this ommission was rectified but in
only 12 months, the amount that could be achieved was limited.
Experience  under  the  IFAD/World  Bank Smallilholder Cattle Dis-
tribution Project also indicates that utilisation pf cattle for
ploughing is relatively low in the first year but increases
snaroly over the following two years.  Since  most  of  the  Bali
cattle procured under the project have oeen in settlers' hands
less than 12 months (table 4.8).  it is not surprising  that  the
number of farmers owning draft eQuioment and the use of cattle
for draft purooses are extremely low.
Other factors contributing to low cattle utilisation for draft
purposes were:
(i)    although  no  budgetary allocation was made under the
project for the purchase and distribution of ploughs, none
of the government deoartments invoived in the project was
prepared to assume this responsibility;
(ii) many of the cattle owners had little or no experience
in the handling of animals and use of draft equipment;
(iii) off farm emoloyment (esoecially common in Singkut)
restricted the use of ploughs;
(iv) there was no local production of good quality ploughs
within the entire project area;
38



(v)    some of the-cattle distributed have been too young to
be  put  to  work,   a  non-comoliance   of   the   contract
specifications.
the DGLS consultants initiated a program fcr the production of
ploughs within the project area and nearly 200 Ploughs of dif-
ferent types were distributed (Kuamang Kuning 124, Hitam Ulu 30.
Kubang Ujo 15, Singkut 27). But transmigrant blacksmiths could
not afford to sell on credit and PPLs were not motivated to dis-
tribute ploughs on credit.  The recuired funds  to  continue  the
plough distribution orogram could not be found and the program
has fallen into abeyance.
The unavailability of olouqhs will be the greatest constraint to
the successful use of draft power in increasing crop production.
farmers incomes ana imoroving farmers' livelihoods. Thus a more
permanent solution to tne plough proauction and distribution
problem. such as the incorporation of specific provisions for
draft  equipment  ana  training  in  project design,  needs to be
found.
4.7.5. Margoyoso ROC
Construction of the Reception and Distribution Centre (RDC) at
Margoyoso. which was envisaged as the technical centre of the
c3ttle orogram. was finished in 1986. Some 105 ha of imoroved
pastures had been Planted at the center. Thirteen holding grounds
(totalling 126 ha) and 50 bull units (covering 75 ha) were
develooed. But the result of the major change in policy from im-
ported to locally procured cactle made mucn of the pnysicai in-
frastructure provided under the project. designed to successfully
handle ana manage imoorted cattle. no longer justified.
All local cattle were aole to be issued to the farmers directly.
The  Bali cattle.  not being a sny breeder like the Brahman.  did
not need the bull units so these were used primarily as collec-
tion centres. The holding grounds were not used as planned be-
cause they were too far away from the farmers homes, were poorly
managed and were tick infested..Pasture development programs were
initiatea at the ena  of  1982  but  then  neglected.  In  recent
months. some holding grounds are being utilized by farmers for
animal feed supply but this unregulated cutting of grasses may
ultimately ruin tne pasture. A further 10 holding grounds and 4
bull units whicn were planned were fortunately not implemented.
The laboratory and training facilities at ROC have been poorly
utilised.  largely because for most of the project.  no funds for
operation and maintenance of the unit were allocated, either from
project or recurrent budget sources.
39



Clear instructions on cancellation of development. disposal or
alternative uses for the livestock facilities have never been
given by DGLS. The provincial and kaouoaten line agencies remain
in controi of extensive facilUties which are not used or substan-
tiallv underutilisec.
Since 1986. attempts have been made to develop Margoyoso into a
technical centre for all livestock activities in the projeCt
area. But full use of the centre, which has been constructed at
considerable cost. will continue to be handicaoped by budgetary
constraints and by the communication difficulties innerent in
having  Margoyoso  located  000  km  away from the administrative
centre of the project at Jambi.
OGLS current thinking is to subsume ROC into the existing UPT
(Unit Pelaksana TeKnik - Technical Imolementation Unit) of South
Sumatra. An alternative proposal has been put forward by the lo-
cal authority to use ROC to support livestock development in
Jambi.
4.8. Cooperatives
The objective of the coooerative component of the Project was to
assist in accelerating settler socio-economic development by im-
proving cooperative infrastructure, organisation and management.
The- revised targets for this component. following the project
reformulation in  198..  were  to  construct  offices,  quarters,
warehouses and related facilities for about 40 village coopera-
tives (KUDs) at the new sites and upgrade facilities for about 7
village coooeratives at Singkut. DG Coooeratives would engage
consultants to organize and ccnduct training programs for KUD
managers and advise on processing, storage and marketing of
uolana crops.
Cooperative developmenc under the project was delayed, partly due
to slow progress with site settlement. It did not effectively
begin until early 198X when a Letter of Decision was issued by
OG Cooperatives. establishing the Farm Coooerative Centre (FCC)
as the executive body for coooerative develooment in the project
area.
The setting up of the FCC. which was not anticipated at
aporaisal. was deemed necessary because the alternative of the
provincial secondary cooperative society (PUSKUD), located in
Jambi town. was more than 300 kms from the project headquarters
at Bangko and without adequate communication facilities. The FCC
was provided with central storage. office and housing facilities
and was responsible for training selected settlers to run their
own KUOs. A site manager was located at each of the four Jambi
sites to supoort the formation and operation of the KUDs.
40



It was not until AuguSt 1984. more than a year after- the FCC
started its activities. that consultants were appointed to assist
the cooperative program in Jamoi with the emphasis on training3
ano marxering assistance. The lack of synchronization in project
ana  consultant  mobilization  resulted in some difficulties over
FCC conceptz an.1 operation systems during the early stages of the
projec:. In late 1985. the consultants reoriented their approach
with one consultant permanently attached to one site manager and
the  use  of  *mocivators"  (practical.   farmer  oriented  "all-
rounders" at one per site) to work with kelompak tani and KUDs.
This conceot had a positive effect. The consultants' contract was
extended fcr three months to '1 March 1987 in order to prepare  a
program  for Phase II activities.  These are to focus on coopera-
tive deveiopment in the South Sumatran sites of 8ingin Teluk ana
Kelingi. As the consultants' original contract was not extended
to cover these sites until mid 1986. they have yet to receive
the full oenerits of the project-provided infrastructure,  train-
ing ano organisational/managerial assistance to cooperatives.
If assessed against SAR objectives or the consultants'  terms  of
reference.  FCC/KUD  develooment has been less than satisfactory.
There were serious delays in the construction of cooperative
facilities. Most Jambi facilities were constructed in 1985 but
buagecary problems within the Ministry of Cooperatives have
prevented the South Sumatra construction prog-am from commencing
to date.  FCC and KUG  volumes  have, been  too  low  to  provide
economic viability.
FCC  turnover  is described in table 4.10.   The distribution and
status of KUDs in the project area is detailed in table 4.11.
41



Table  4.10:   FCC Volume and value of Gooas DistributeG
1983/84          1984/85              1985/8a
Item            Vol      Rp m      Vol     RD m        Vol       Rp m
AGRIC INPUTS
Fortiliser     6.9 t )          50.7 t )             97.7 t )
Insecticides   0.6 t )  2.7    1.3 t )  13.4          1.7 t )   13.9
Planting              )                )                     )
materials   2100   )          13090  )              2227  )
RICE(unhusked)   -              109.0 t   17.3        45.3  t    7.4
CONSUMER GDS                               19.5                  69.5
OTHERS (timber,          -                 13.4                  27.8
rattan,etc.)
TOTAL VALUE             2.7               6'.3                  118.5
Note: Due to the great variety in types and measurement units  of
consumer goods and other items. physical volumes are not shown.
Table excludes the value of goods distributed to KUD's at Kubang
Ujo for the years 1984/85 and 1985/86 due to non availaoility of
data. Physical measure of planting materials is sticks or see-
dlings
The lack of working capital available to the FCC has prevented it
from maintaining sufficient stocks of fertiliser to supply the
KUD's. Nor can the FCC afford to supply a full range of goods to
KUO's on more than one mrntn's consignment  credit.  whlch.  would
otherwise alleviate KUD cash flow proolems.
Table 4.11:    KUD Development
Site        Total      Year Established         Av     Av Cap
'82 '83 '84 '85 '86 '87  Members   Accum
Rp m
Kubang Ujo    3    3                           278      0.39
Hitam Ulu    13         2   4   4   1   2    619        0.911"
SingKut       7*                               378      n/a
K Kuning     19         2   4   9   4                   0'8  0.54
TOTAL        42    3   4   8  13   5   2
* all established prior to the project
*  data missing for one KUD so average over 12 KUCs
42



As tre KUDs in Singkut listed acove were all establisned prior to
1980.  the  project  can  be  considerea to have develoced Z5 new
farmers  cooperatives-  Not all KUDs are active.  Of the total 42
KUOs.  24  (57%)  are  involved  in  a full range of consumer ana
producer activities (shop, rice milling unit, drying floor etc.):
9 (21%) are involved in consumer activities only; 1 (2%) has
oroducer services only;  and 8 (19%J) are inactive.  The  inactive
KUDs are found in Hitam Ulu (4)  and Kuamang Kuning (4).
Compared  to  the  revised project targe= of 40 new KUDs,  actual
acnievement of 35 KUOs falls short. However, in the South Sumatra
sites, there are presently 13 KUDs (seven in aingin Teluk. six in
Kelingi) at various stages of formation which, once incorporated,
will bring the total numoer of KUOs estaolished under the project
in excess of target.
4.8.1. KUD Development
The lower than planned achievement of KUD develooment can be ex-
plained by several factors:
(i}   project yields and cultivated areas are lower than an-
ticipated so that large surPluses  of  agricultural  produce
are not available for sale;
(ii) contrary to appraisal exPectations, agricultural input
packages are not  channelled  via  KUD's  but  are  suoplied
direct by line agencies. This source of potential revenue to
KUD's has thus never materialised. Nor has the revolving
credit fund, which the SAR excected would be set up with
farmers' repayments for input pacxages ana uses as a source
of farmer credit for input purchases;
(iii) very low initial caoital coupled with difficulties in
obtaining access to the credit necessary for operation anc
expansion has adversely affected the level of facilities.
activities and services offered by KUD's. Monthly turnover
of KUD's is low and they have not matured to the extent that
the state banks are prepared to use them as regular coooera-
tive credit institutions. Productivity within settlemenc
sites is thus seriously constrained by the lack of readily
accessible credit for the purcnase of production inputs;
(iv)  KUD's  were  often implemented before the sett1ers haa
develoced the mutual understanding and degree of trust fun-
damental to successful cooperative cevelooment. These condi-
tions cannot be rapidly achieved where there are different
social and cultural backgrounds of settlers, and where the
site is settled over a considerable period of time, as was
43



frecuently the case under the projeet (see table 4.6);
(v; management and direction witnin KUD's has been generally
poor.  FCC nas failed to follow up acequately on its initial
training to KUD officials. KUD officials have difficulties
in ailocating sufficient time to KUD activities as their
priorities   lie  with  achieving  subsistence  agricultural
production to supPort their families. Yet KUD finances are
inadecuate to support full-time or adequately trained staff
without subsidy. A study undertaken in 1985 estimated tne
KUD monthly breakeven turnover at Rp 5.5 million. No project
site KUD at that time had a monthly turnover of more than Ro
S million and for many, the turnover was below Rp 1 million;
(vii uncertainty over the legal future of FCC. presently a
limited life development entity, hindered the recruitment
and  retention of qualified staff and prevented the integra-
tion of FCC activities with ongoing ministry of  Cooperative
programs;
(vii) FCC services have not been fully relevant to settiers'
needs. For instance, the most important FCC service in
volume, value and coverage terms is the provision of con-
sumer gocas (see table 4.10), but private traders and local
marKets also fulfill this function. The latter have founa no
difficulty in access to Transmigration It sites due to their
proximity to the Trans Sumatra highway and relatively good
internal road networks.
4.8.2. Future of FCC
wit. the =Iosi'ng of the Loan/Credit,  recurrent costs for t.e FCC
must be met from earnings on business activities and GOI recur-
rent budget. The Jambi provincial authorities have prooosea that
FCC and projec: staff be used as the basis for a Project mange-
ment Unit (PMU). This would resolve FCC's legal status proolem in
the short term. allow the management and staff to be kept largely
intact, and service continuity to be maintained. It appears the
prooosed   PMU  would  be  responsible  for  providing  secondary
coooerative input suoply services and marketing for all upland
transmigration sites in Jambi Province (i.e. Pamenang. Alai
Hilir, Rimoo Bujang plus the four Transmigration II sites).
4.8.3. Credit for Cooperatives
The SAR assumed that the development of the KUD's after the in-
itail  start  up  period would be financed through profits on KUD
operations. savings by members and caoital injections through the
recovery of the value of the agricultural input packages (section
4.8.1 (ii)). In practice, no savings have been achieved. KUD
44



operations have not been of a size which Permits margins for
reinvestment. Inout packages have not been cnannelled througm
KUD's. Insufficient c3oital for bozh working and investment
pruposes has been a severe constraint to cooperative development.
Access, rather than availability. of funds appears to be the
problem. There are rural development credit schemes available for
the KUD's in transmigration areas. Indeed. Rp 280 million was
earmarked by Bank Indonesia for the KUD's in Jambi transmigration
areas. To date. however, none of these funds have been released.
Only two KUD's in the project have obtained credit - in both
cases. from Bank Umum Koperasi (BUKOPIN).
Unfortunately. there is no specialised rural develooment bank or
fund in Indonesia. The present system of using the state banks
and certain private banks as handling banks for rural develooment
credit normally has long and involved processing procedures wnich
effectively pIevent credit being supplied as and when needed. The
handling bank in Transmigration II project area. Bank Rakyat In-
donesia (BRI) does not have "unit desa" in the project area.
45



S. AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
In this section of the PCR, actual and exoected agricultural
develoPment on the six project sites is comoared with appraisal
expectations. Detailed information on agricultural impact is
presented in Annex 2. The assessment of agricultural impact is as
complete  as  allowed  by  the  available  data.   Unfortunately,
agricultural information collected by government agencies con-
centrates on major food crops - rice. maize, soya beans. green
beans.  peanuts  and  cassave  -  because these are the crops for
which there are Promotion/extension programs. Data on the estate
croos within the project sites has not been collected by OG Es-
tates because they restrict their involvement until the site is
handed  over  to  local  government  and smallholder programs are
initiated.
Reliable time series information concerning the progress of
agricultural develooment in the six sites since settlement does
not exist. because the agencies involved have not collected data
in a regular and systematic manner. This shortfall has prevented
the PCs from confirming or denying the suggestion that yields in
Transmigration II settlements teno to decline over time as soil
fertility diminishes. At the same time, it points to the neces-
sity  for  establishing  such  monitoring  arrangements in future
projects. if the Government and donor agencies are to be able to
measure the impact of their projects with the optimum degree of
confidence.
PCR survey data (Annex 1) is4= been used to suoplement agricul-
tura. data from official sources in the assessment which follows.
5.1. Aooraisal Expectations
According to the SAR farm model, each family was to be given 3.5
ha of land, of which aoout 2.0 ha would be suitable for food
cropoing and 1.5 ha suitable for food crops, tree crops or other
agricultural production.   The project would clear 1.25 ha of the
food crooping land, leaving 2.25 ha (0.75 ha food croP area and
1.5 ha tree crop land in forest for the farmer to develop.
As the concept of large scale food cropping introduced under the
project was a new development in the area, the SAR was not
aefinitive about future cropping patterns.   However,  it was an-
ticipated that on the I ha of cleared foodcroo area, rice. corn
and cassava would be intercroppea following the harvest of which.
high value leguminous crops (such as soybeans, groundnuts or mung
beans) would be planted. On the houselot area. vagetables, fruit
trees  and perennial crops would be grown.   The farmers would be
46



suoplieo with farming eouioment. seeas. other planting material.
fertilizers. pesticiaes and cooperative facilities under the
oroject. and extension services under the ongoing national food
croo extension program.   The move beyond subsistence througn tne
farmer's clearing and develooment of his remaining 2.25 ha was
viewed as a second stage activity. to be organised and assiszed
by the Government according to a plan to be submitted to the Bank
for review by December .1980.
The anticipated yields, total production of major crops at full
develooment (five years after the comoletion of project works) at
aopraisal and total proauction targets taking account of the
downward revision in settlement target from 30,000 KK to 20.000
KK were;
Crop            Yield    Total Production (tons)
(tJha)     Appraisal      Revised*
Paddy           1.7         58,000          38,000
Maize          0.8          27.000          18,000
Soybean        0.8           12,000          8,000
Cowpeas        0.6            2.000          1.3'_
Cassava       12.0         163.000         109.000
* SAR total production figures prorated to take into account the
reauction in settlement target from 30,000 KK to 20,000 KK.
5.2. Three Stages of Agricultural Develooment
For the purposes of assessing actual agricultural imoact at the
time of the PCR, the six sites can be grouped into three
categories according to the age of settlement and status of  food
crop development.  These categories are;
(ij  Singkut and Kubang tjo
Botn these sites have been settled for five years or more at
the time of the PCR.   For the  purposes  of  simplicity  .n
exposition. these two sites will be referrea to as the "ola
sites";
(ii) Hitam Ulu and Kuamang Kuning
These two sites were settled over 1983-1986 and are at least
three  years  away from full potential.   As they are in the
middle phase of food crop development, they will be referred
to as the "middle sites";
(iii) Bingin Teluk and Kelingi
As  settlement  began  in  1985  and was only comoleted this
year. these sites are in the initial stages with about five
years  before  full food croa development is reached.   They
will be termed the "new sites".
47



One advantage of having the different settlement scenarios is
that comoarisons can be mace between the statue of develooment
(both agricultural and non agricultural) at three distinct stages
of settlement and insignts gained as to the dynamics of the
orocess. One comolication is that agricultural farming systems in
the project. particularly in'the new and middle sites, have not
reached their final pattern. Nevertheless, the main conclusion of
the  PCR  regarding  agricultural  develooment  is  very  clear -
namely. that it is patently incorrect to characterise Transmigra-
tion II settlers as full-time farmers relying primarily on their
own production. On average, only 40% of housenold casn income is
derived from agriculture. The strategy adooted by many trans-
migrants is to pursue whatever off-farm employment opportunities
exist as these usually offer higher returns at less risk to
labour than cultivation of food croos which must be marketed.
Given  the  importance  of  wages   from   off-farm   emoloyment.
businesses. pensions and gifts of money and rental aczivicies to
transmigrant   incomes.   off-farm   activities   are   addressed
separately in Section 6 - Off Farm Activities.
In the following sections. actual land utilisation. crooping pat-
terns and yielas are discussed. anc comparisons made with SAR
expectations.  It must be recognisea.  however,  thaw SAR figures
are bazed on a fifth-year. full fooa croo development scenario.
As pointed out above, only two of the six Transmigration rr sites
can be considered to have reached this point. Thus caution snould
be exercised in the drawing of comparisons between ac..ual and ex-
ectea agricultural development.
5.3. Land Utilization
The SAR expectation was that at year 5. cropping intensity on the
Lahan I areas would be 200 %. Under this assumption, the target
harvested area, following the scaling down of the project in
1982. would have been around 40.000 ha in Lahan I areas and 5.000
ha houselots, for a total of 4S,000 ha.
Actual land utilisation at the time of the PCR was 32.178 ha, 37%
of the total allocated area. or 40% if areas of developed sawah
are included. ( In Annex 2 - Agricultural Impact, the methodology
for calculation of area utilized is described to allow com-
parisons with SAR calculations based on harvested areas).
The reduced land utilization is a reflection of :
(i) the relative newness of four of the six sites;
48



(ii) the reducea intensity of the  crooping  model -actually
being imoiement3c  rather than the CRIA model of the SAR:
(iii) the absence of second-stage develooment of Lahan II
areas under the oroject as a result of failure of the
Government to produce a comorenonsive plan as requested in
the SAR or any significant imolementation of proposals which
have oeen put forward. The very limited Lahan II development
which has taken Place is a result of non-project initiatives
(e.g. transmigrants tnemselves and the World Bank supported
Second Smallholaer Rubber Develooment Project SROP 1I at
Singkut).
Land  utilization  ar  the time of the comoletion rpoort is indi-
catea in the following table.
Table  5.1:   Lana Utilization
Kelingi 8 TeluK Singkut K Ujo H Ulu K Kuning- Total
......................   ha  ............. .........ha
Area availaole
Houselot     438       703    1798      3'     1590    1875    6737
Lahan I     1750     2811    4215    1265    63f1    7500   23902
Lahan II    3938     6325    6360    2700   14312   16875   5051o
Total       6126     9e89   12373    4298   22263   26250   81149
Area used
Houselot     339       763    1745      2Z5    1518    1899    6499
Lanan I     1142      1538    2410    1126    7113    8357   21o8a
Lahan II       0         0    2000      32       11       0    204Z
Sub Total   1481     230i    6155    1393    8642   10256   30226
Sawah         30        15    115S      152     400     200    1952
Total       1511     2316    7310    1S45    9042   10456   32178
U.tilization    %        %       %        %       9       %       %
Houselot      77       109      97       70      95      101      96
Lanan I       65        55      57      89      111     11)       91
Lahan II       0         0      31        1     Heg       0        4
Total         24        23      50      32       39      39       37
Total with    25        24      59      36       41      40       40
Sawah
Sawah areas are noteworthy. At present, tnese total 1952 ha with
the potential for a further 1093 ha to be developed over the next
five years. Sawah areas are low-lying, swampy areas, outside al-
located   plots,   which   have   been   developed   through  the
49



transmigrants' own inititative for wet rice production. -They are
well utilised. The possibility of sawah areas was not consicered
in the SAR but has effectively increased the total area availacle
for food crop production (houselots plus Lahan I areas) by 69 and
comorises 6% of total cultivated area.
5.4. CropPing Patterns
The CRIA cropoing pattern, upon which the SAR farm model was
based. is a high input - high output system with sharp labour
peaks and requires soohisticated management and timing. It as-
sumes a mixed cropping of cassava. maize and dry rice.
In practice, the mixed cassava/maize/rice cropping system has
never eventuated to any degree because the management required is
far above the capability of either. the extension worker or the
farmer himself. The general cropping pattern is largely mono-
culture. Land utilization is consequently much lower and areas
planted to the minor crops - maize and cassava - are much lower
than those implied in the model.
so



Table S.2: CropPing Patterns by Site 1986/87
Kelingi  B Teluk  Singkut   K Ujo   H Ulu  K Kuning  Total
..................... ha .
TOTAL     1511    2316      7310    1543    9042    10456    32178
Padi Sawah  30       15     1155      152      400      200      1952
Total
Below    1481 - 2301       6155    1393    8642    10256    30226
HOUSELOT   339      763      1745     235    1518      1899      6499
Legumes     28       50        70      10       80      100       338
maize       35       s0        20      10       50      300       495
Cassava     50      110        21      12      300      200       693
Fruit Tree 180      420     1070      133      592      871      3266
Cash Tree
Croo       39       86      497       37      396      328      1383
Other        7       17       67       33      100      100       324
LAHAN r   1142    1538      2410    1126    7113       8357    21686
Padi-Dry   530      700      400      600    3500      3500      9230
Green Veg   93      102       98       51      130      -130      604
Legumes    127      354      258      190    1501      2333    4435
Maize      175      205       20       30      502     1300      2232
Cassava    200      13T       49       25      750      600      1754
Fruit Trees -        -        -        -        -       202       202
Casn-Tree
Crop      -        -      1468      113      443      333      2357
Other       17       47      117      117      117      287       872
LAnHAi I     0        0     2000       3^       11        0      2043
Ruboer      -         -     2000*      32       11        -      2043
Coffee      -         -         -       _        _        _
Cloves      -              -        -            -        -
*most planted under the World Bank SROP II Project
In terms of area cultivated, the most important crops grown are;
% total area cultivated
(including sawah)
Padi - dry                        29S
Legumes                           1S
Cash tree crops (excl rubber)   12
Fruit trees                 -    11
maize                              8
Cassava/sweet potato               8
Padi - sawah                       6
Rubber                             6
51



However. there are consideraole site variations in the importance
or inaividual croos. as can be seen in the following table.
Table 5.3: Crops Grown as % of Cultivated Area
1986j87
Keling.  Bingin T  Singkut  K Ujo  H Ulu  K Kuning
............... %  cultivated area 
Padi Sawah         2       0.5        19      11      5          2
Total Below      100       100       100    100    100        100
HOUSELOT          23        3'        28      17     18         19
Legumes            2         2         1    0.5       1          1
Maize           2.5        3.5       0.5    0.5    0.5          3
Cassava          3.4       4.8       0.5    0.5       3         2
Fruit Trees       12        18        17     10       7         8
Cash-Tree Crop    3          4         8      3       5          3
Other            Neg       0.7         1      3       1          1
LAHAN I           77        67        39     81      82        81
Padi - Dry        36        30         6     4-      40        34
Green Veg          6         4         2      4       1          1
Legumes            9        15         4     14      17        23
Maize             12         9       0.5       2      6         13
Cassava           14         6       0.5      2       9         6
Fruit Trees        -         -        -       -       -         -
Cash-Tree Crop    -          -        24      8       5         3
Other              1         2         2      8       3         3
LAHAN II           0         0        3'      2    Neg          0
Rubber             --                 S_      2    Neg
Coffee             -         -                 -      -
Cloves                       -        -        -      a
* most planted under the World Bank SROP II Project
Houselots are the most intensively managed lands. A wide range of
croos is grown including cassava. maize. peanuts, soyabeans.
green beans, chillies. long beans. cucumbers. melons. bananas,
pineapoles,   papaya.  other  fruit  trees,  coffee.  clovesa  and
coconuts.
A similar range of crops is also grown on the Lahan r (first
agricultural lot) but generally at a lower level of intensity.
Indeed. management levels on Lahan I areas are very variable -
from total abaidonment to alang alang. particularly at Singkut to
intensive conservation conscious (bunds and terrace maintained
52



and sOwn) management at SingKut. Kubang Ujo and Hitam Ulu.
Lahan II areas remain essentially unutilised except at Singkut
where rubber planting has occurred in three ohases, none of which
is directly attributable to the project:
(i) small scale plantings by individuals with no government
assistance using seedling rubber from existing "bush" rubber
(ii) a KUD project at Singkut III to plant 1,000 ha of
rubber, started in 1982 and initially supoorted by the
provincial OG Estates and a Rupiah 118 million loan from
BUKOPIN. However, as the KUD project had not been approved
as part of the national program, OG Estates, Jambi could not
maintain assistance due to institutional difficulties. About
600 ha of rubber was Planted but maintenance has been poor
and other inputs minimal.
(iii) after many delays. rubber planting is now occurring on
about 1400 ha under the World Bank SROP II Project.
5.5. Yields
In the project area, the maintenance and improvement of the
nazurally low fertility soils requires a great deal of skill and
considerable capital inout from the transmigrants. They have to
work hard, invest much money in each croo and apply. in addition
to normal husbandry methods, soil conservation and crop protec-
tion measures to assure reasonable yields. The risks involved are
great.
Yields in the project area, expresssed as a weighced average over
all  sites.  are  comoared  with  SAR  projections  (  for  full-
development) in table 5.4.
53



Taole  5.4:    Actual and Expected Yields
Croo             SAR                  Actual
estimate    average        range
............ kg,'ha ...............
Maize             800           700        500 - 1000
Fruit trees       n.a.         1125        2'S0 - 227S
Legumes           800*          700"*      X 5 - 1000
Cassava         12000          7000       3000 - 10000
Green veg          n.a.        2875       2225 - 3400
Cash tree croos   n.a.           75            - 300
Padi - sawah      n.a.         1850       1500 - 2150
- dry       1700           650        450 - 1000
* soybean   $ soybean. oeanuts. green beans
Actual yields are below SAR yields. Actual dry rice yields are
particularly  low,  at less than 4,v  oT SAR estimate.  There is a
considerable degree  of  variabilit!  in  actual  yields  between
*   sites.  Yielas at the new sites, as expected, are much lower than
yields at the old sites.
The shortfalls in actual comoared to expected yields are partly a
reflection  of the less than full food croo development status of
four of the six Transmigracion II sites.  If yields  in  the  old
sites. as represented by the upper end of the range figures in
table 5.4 above, are compared with SAR figures, actual yields are
higher than expected for legumes and maize and lower than ex-
pected for rice and cas3ava. However, with the much lower croo-
ping intensities and cultivated area at the time of the PCR. to-
tal proauction of major crops fails far short of expectations.
Table  5.5:   Total Agricultural Production (tonnes)
Actual*      Revised       Actual as
Crop                           SAR est        % est
Rice - dry       6.000         38.000          16%
Maize            1.910         18.000          11%
Legumes          3,340          9.333          36%
Cassava         17,130        109,000          16%
Fruit trees      3.900          n.a.
Green veg        1,735          n.a.
Cash tree crops    280          n.a.
Padi - sawah     3.610          n.a.
s from Tables 5.2 and 5.4
54



Asia  from the less than full cevelooment of all  sites,  Produc-
tion ard yields are lower than SAP projections for tne foliowing
reasons;
(i) SAR projections. particularly for rice, were over-
optimistic:
(ii) agricultural inouts ef the required auality and variety
have not always been freely available. Inout packages were
not always delivered in a timely fasmion and there were
shortfalls in the provision of some inputs in the packages;
(iii) animal and insect predators have been a constant
problem. Avoidance of pest attacks requires concentrated
planting timetables and settler discipline. This takes at
least three years to achieve and in many instances. con-
flicts with the CRIA model taugnc to extensi-on personnel;
(iv) agricultural extension staff need two to three years to
adjust their thoughts and aoproacn to upland podzolic soils;
(v) yield figures are basea on averages for all settlers but
there is a great deal of variability. About 15% of all set-
tlers do not grow rice and another 10-15% grow only minimal
areas or only sawah.
5.6. Rice Production
Over 85% of all households produce rice. one third of whom
Produce more than one croz; per year. But areas cult.vated. yi2id_
and hence total production are low. Yields at the time of the PCR
averaged 0.65 ton/ha (SAR estimate 1.7 ton/ha). However, as notea
above. about 25% of all settlers grow no or only minimal areas of
rice. The best 20°; of farmers probably grow 50% of total rice
oroduction with yields at 700 - 1000 kg per ha.
Total production was less than 10,000 tons  (SAR  adjustea    es-
timate  38,000 tons).  comorised of about 6.000 tons dry rice and
3,600 tons sawah. Crop losses are high with uD to 40% of the crop
being lost to insect and animal predators.
Only 10% of rice produced is sold. In the old sites. transmigrant
families are self-sufficient in rice for about 9 months when con-
sumption is based on 50 kg rice/family/month. In the new sites,
rice sufficiency is less than S months.
At the time of appraisal, most of Sumatra was a food deficit
area. While about 50% of the paddy and secondary croos produced
under the project were expected to be consumed in the project
55



areas. the balance was to be marketed outside the project area or
exoorted to Jakar,ta. But since the time of aooraisal. the extent
of Indonesia's fooc seLf-sufficiency has cnanged dramatically. in
1978. Indonesia's foo' self-sufficiency was in a decline and the
Government facea the orosoect of increasing import reouirements
of basic foods and especially of rice. wneat, sugar. coconut oil
and possibly maize. In the period since aooraisal. Indonesia has
made impressive gains in rice productivity to the extent that by
1984, self-sufficiency had been attained. Therefore while project
targets have not been achieved. with overall Indonesia self-
sufficiency, there is less pressure to generate surpluses from
marginal areas.
5.7. Palawija. Vegetables and Fruit
A diverse range of palawija (secondary food crops). vegetables
and fruit are grown. mostly on houselots. Contrary to appraisal
expectations, cowoeas are seldom cultivated because a ready
market for this croo in Indonesia does not exist. Settlers have
successfully substituted peanuts and mung beans, for wnich good
markets exist.
Oata on the auancities of fruit produced are not given below be-
cause farmers typically report production as actual numbers of
fruits sold ratner than by weight.
Table  5.o:  Average Production of Palawija & Vegetables Per
Grower
Crop           Kelingi  8 Teluk  Singkut  K Ujo  H Ulu  K Kuning
(kgs)
Cassava          290      527       640     723    1190      961
(100%)    (98%)    (9Z l)   (87%)  (99%)   (99%)
maize            6o         59      186     304      164     205
(9_%)    (87%)    (50%o)   (62%)   (80%)  (;5:%)
Peanuts           62       77       126      90      27       76
(90%)    (84%)    (47%)   (4Z7)   (67%)   (54%)
Soyabeans         35       92       127     195      118      96
(65%)    (43%)    (44%)  (65%)  (60*)   (54%)
Green beans       1A       26        44      31      42       53
(68%)    (57%)    (S0%)   (40%)   (67%)   (71%)
Chillies          12       29        21      19      59      41
( 836% )    (75%)    (55%)   (40%)  (59%)  (55%)
Long beans       157       33       144      45      63      42
(72%)    (77%)    (61%)   (47e)  (57%)   (56%)
Cucumoer          14        51      324      -       112     32
(2e%)    (30%)    (5S%)   ( - )   (21%)   (31%)
Melon             -         78      172      84      64      36
( - )    (12%).   (11%)   (10%)   (12%)   (15%)
56



There are noticeable differences in the level of agricultural ac-
tivity ano grower yields between sites. In general, participation
in vegetable growing is highest but production per grower is
lowest at the new sites and particication is lowest but produc-
tion per grower is highest at the old sites. Particioation rates
and grower yields fall roughly between the two extremes for the
two middle sites.
The phenomenon of lower participation rates macched with higher
production per grower at established  sites  suggests  that  over
time, poorer farmers droo out and/or specialization occurs in the
form of a switching away from food crops toward estate tree
crops. Suooort for this proposition can be found in agricultural
income figures per site. Both old sites derive 20% or more of
agricultural income from tree crops (rubber, coconuts. cloves and
coffee) compared to 7% or less for all other sites (Annex 1, sec-
tion 5.3.3).
5.8. Estate Crops
The switching away from foodcrops toward estate tree crops with
age of settlement can be seen in the incidence of tree crop
plantings in the project area. Rubber. cloves, coconuts and
coffee are the major plantation tree croos, Rubber Plantings are
cited by 15% of all farmers, cloves by 78%. coconuts by 93% and-
coffee by 80%. But cloves are found mostly in the middle and old
sites of Hitam Ulu. Kuamang Kuning. Singkut and Kubang Ujo. Clove
and coffee seedlings were included in the Package A distributed
to settlers at these sites. but not in the Package A distributed
to settlers in the South Sumatra sites. as a Government decree in
1984 had changed the package content.
Nearly all the rubber is in Singkut. About 1,400 ha has been
planted under the SRDP II and the rest is old or close to tapping
but very poorly maintained. Coconuts are grown in all sites.
mostly for home consumption. Coffee is concentrated in Kubang
Ujo. Hitam Ulu and Kuamang Kuning. where 90% of farmers have
planted coffee. Hdwever,' 60% of the farmers in the South Sumatra
sites have also planted coffee, despite this not being included
in their input packages. Clearly, settlers juage tMe potential
benefits from tree crops sufficiently high to justify investment
from their own very limited resources.
Estate tree crops. with the exception of rubber, are invariably
planted on the houselot with additional plantings on the Lahan I
areas. Rubber is effectively the only crop grown on Lahan tI
areas tnroughout the project area. Most of the tree cropsrart
reta:ively recently planted and will take from 3 to  5  years  to
reach -maturity (even longer for coconuts and rubber). Returns
57



from tree crops are therefore still low but should increase >ig-
nificant_v in the next five years as more trees reach maturity.
5.9. Housenold Consumption
The prooortion of total agricultural production that is consumed
by the household is reasonably constant across sites as would be
excectec. Overall. 43% of total production (including sales of
small livestock) is consumed by the household. which at farmgate
prices, is valued at Ro 158,000 (USS 963) per year. Higher
housenolc consumption levels are found at the old sites where
average household sizes are also higher.
The  comoosition of household consumption does vary across sites,
reflec:ing differences in site crooping patterns combined with
differences in household consumption preferences.
5.10. Livestock
Livestocx for non-draft purposes was not an issue addressed in
the SAR. However, as a source of income. household consumotion
and store of wealth, it is of considerable importance in the
project area. Livestock holdings per site are detailed in Annex 1
5.3.5. Overall average livestocK holdings per household are
chickens 15.7, ducks 0.50, goats 0.13 and cattle 0.31. Over 70'
of all households had bought or sold livestock in the past year -
the average purchase being RP 6752 and the average sale, RD
43,360. Twenty percent of gross agricultural income is at-
tributable to sales of livestock.
HcIdingz of domestic livestock reflect confidence in agricultural
pursuits and are important indicators of transmigrant commitment
to their new home.
5.11. Agricultural Suooort Services
The project was to provide the following agricultural suoport
services;
(i;    construction  of  offices and facilities for two seec
farms and one plant protection brigade;
(ii) distribution of an initial package of food grain,
vegetable seeds and perennial seedlings plus packages of
fert_liser and pesticide for the first three years of
settlement;
(iii) agricultural studies and research work;
58



(iv) training of extension workers;
iv)  a networK of RECs (Rural Extension Centres) to support
extension personnel.
5.11.1. Extension
Extension staff (PPLs and PPMs) numbers were not always up to
requirements (estimated in SAR to be one PPL per 500 families).
Lack of transport for most extension workers was a constant
problem. Coupled with poor training, the result has been tnat
farmer group formation and extension impact have been much less
than  needed.   The  OGFCA  consultants  conducted  many  trials,
demonstration plots and surveys. Their findings, which could have
formed the basis for a simple technical message for PPLs. were
reDdrted to DGFCA but no action was taken.
5.11.2. Seeds. Fertiliser and Pesticiaes
Under the project. each settler was suoplied with three years of
production inputs. The efficiency of delivery of these free input
packages in the first three years after settlement by OGFCA has
varied for different sites. Each settler received at least 1.8
tons of lime under the project but some farmers were not' con-
vinced of its value. Lime also did not always arrive in time. In
Jamoi. a significant proportion of settlers also received the
soil conservation grant package (fertiliser, lime. seed, insec-
ticide and one goat) from the Ministry of Agriculture. However.
no viable credit scheme for the Purcnase of production inputs has
been develooed.
The OPSUS program (funded from SIAP funds of the Ministry of
Agriculture) was a useful form of credit for seed and inouts for
maize and soyabeans. But the program nas ceasee due to changes in
GOI budgetary and financial control policies, and cancellation of
SIAP. (SIAP was carryover or unsoenc budgetary allocations from
previous years' budgets which could continue to be utilized for
up to 3 years). Reoayment of OPSUS loans though KUD's was poor.
partly  because  the  attitude of many settlers is that suooly or
inputs through the GOI programs should free or on soft terms. The
8UKOPIN entered into a direct scheme with the KUD in Singkut Unit
4 for ginger production but due to poor management. loan reoay-
ments had to be rescheduled.
The recommended inputs,  such as varieties and insecticides. were
often  supplied  in   untimely   fashion   and   sometimes   were
unavailable.
The Plant Protection Srigade *(PP8) at Margoyoso Seed Farm had
59



limited personnel and transPort ano consequently could not func-
tion effectively.
5.11.Z. Seed Farms
Two seed farms were developed under the project. One was newly
established at Margoyoso. It covers about 40 ha of which 15 ha
are planted. The other is at Singkut and was rehabilitated uncer
the project's ungrading program for Singkut. It covers 23 ha, is-
fully developed and crops are in gooc condition. Despite its aif-
ficult tooograohic condition for mechanization. the Singkut seed
farm has functiones the more effectively. orimarily due to supe-
rior management.
The main problems with the seed farms ha a been managerial and
financial. rather than technical. Budgetary constraints have
prevented  full  development   and   Utilization   of   available
facilities, an unacceptable situation given the needs of the
project farmers for good quality seeds. It was always difficu't
to secure sufficient budget funds from the provincial or
kaouoaten level to meet operating costs. The alternative of
develooing seed growers amongst settlers is also difficult be-
cause yields in the project area are low and inputs required for
seea production are high. There is no organisation to promote
contract seed growers in the area.
5.11.4. Research
Research into croooing systems and liming trials were conductea
by AARD and carried out at Kuamang Kuning and Kuoang Ujo. AAPD is
also uncertaking crials on land clearing methods at Kuamana
Kuning. althougn since the level of knowledge Qn tnis subject is
already quite hign, it may have been more appropriate to reorient
the research toward more smallholder-specific programs sucn as
the use of organic mattar and full-farm technology.
As the AARD researcn programs did not cc mence until 1985 and
will require at least six years before X ningful results can be
exPected. funding has been transferred to Transmigration III. To-
tal cost of funding the remaining portions is estimatea at RD
1.82 billion.
5.12. Future Prospects
Assuming the quality and availability of agricultural supporting
services and inputs continues to imorove, and initiatives for
development of Lahan II areas into oil palm and rubber estates
(see Annex 2 - section 15) are realised, projected improvements
in land utilization and crop yields are described below.
60



5.12.1. Land Utilisation
Land utilisation in the project area is excected  to  imorove  by
58%  over the next five years - from 32.178 ha to 50.945 na.  in-
cluding '04S ha of sawah. Even then. however, only 63% of the to-
tal available area(including sawani will be under cultivation.
rable  5.7:   Projected Land Utilisation
Houselot   L I    L II   Total  Sawah  Grand  Present
Total
.....................   ha 
Kelingi     S8'     2643   1545*   4771    225    4996    1511
e Teluk     921     4889   2545N   8355    100    8455    2316
Singkut    1725     3037   4200*   8962   1250   10212    7310
K Ujo       229     1371    352*   1952    170    2122    1543
H Ulu      1486     7708   2386^* 11580    900   12480    9042
K Kuning   1660     8395   2225$z 12280    400   12680   '0456
Total
- Future   6604    28043  13253   47900   3045   50945   32178
- Present  6499    21686   2043   30228   1952   32178
t mostly rubber   *  mostly oil palm
On a site basis,  the greatest increases in land utilization will
naturally be experienced at the now sites of Kelingi  and  Bingin
Teluk because 30% of the settlers there are very recent arrrivals
(since October 1986).  In terms of  allocated  areas,  about  60t-
(11.210 ha) of the increase in cultivated area will come from the
development of Lahan II plots in rubber and oil palm. Cultivation
of  Lahan  I  areas will increase by 6357 ha and sawah areas will
i        expano by a further 1093 ha. The utilisation of houselots,  which
are already Quit-i intensively managed, will show only a slight
increase over the next five years.
Projected land utilisation (excluding sawah)  compared  to  total
land allocated will show an overall improvement from its present
level 'f 37% to 59%. as indicated below:
Area           Available    Projected           Utilisation
area       cult area        present  projected
..............   ha   ..........     .  ......    ........
Houselot        67'7           6604              96%       98%
Lahan 1        23902          28043              91%      117%
Lahan rr       50510          13253               4%       26%
Total          81149          47900    Overall  37%        59%
61



5.12.2. Yields
Yields are expected to rise as the rnew  and  mi-dle  sites  reach
full food crop development,  more frO.t and cash tree crops reach
maturity, and farmers become more specialised. Provided settlers
receive and use appropriate extension services. good seed.
adequate fertiliser and Pesticide inputs and croo protecticn
services. expected yield increases over the next five years are
snown in table 5.8.
Table 5.8: Projected Crop Yielas
Crop                    Yield (kg/ha)            Projected comDared
1986/7    1991/2    %           to SAR estimate
Padi - dry          650        825    + 26%          50% lower
maize               700        900    + 29%           13% higher
Legumes             700        825    + 18%           3% higher
Cassava            7000       9000    + 29%          25% lower
Tozal proouction and area cultivated in food crops in the future.
however, is most likely to decline because;
Wi) there will be a switching away from food crops to tree
crobs to take advantage cf the latter's potentially higher
returns to labour. and
(ii) so  long as off-farm employment opoortuni:ies continue
to be available, the poorer farmers and those in the more
marginal areas are likely to adopt tne lower risk course of
action of producing food crops at a subsistence level and
meeting their family's cash requirements from non-farm
activities.
62



6. OFF FARM ACTIVITIES
A very high proportion (88%) of all housenolds receive income
from off farm activities such as wage employment. pensions and
gifts of money, small businesses and rental oDerations. On
average, off-farm  income  ;er household in the Past year was RD
321.000, compared to gross agricultural income, including home
consumotion,  of  Rp 371,000.  Wages are the most important.  ac-
counting for 49% of total off  farm  income.  pensions/gifts  and
rents  each provide about 21% and business ooerations account for
the balance.  In  the  following  section,  summary  details  are
provided  on  the extent and nature of off farm activities in the
project area. Annex 1 should be consulted for more detailed
information.
6.1. Wage Emoloyment
The  most  common  form  oa' off-farm activity is wage employment.
Nearly two-thiras of all hoDuseholds have at least one memDer
earning, wages.  Contrary to initial expectations,  there does not
aooear to be any decline in wage income or participation as
settlement preceses. Average household income from wages and num-
ber of wage earners per household are noticeably higher in tne
old sites. In Singkut, 57% of households have two or more wage
earners and the average household income from wages is Ro
187.000. In Kuoang Ujo. 26% of households have more than one
wage earner and average household wage income is Rp 231.000. In
all other sites. less than 20% of households have 2 or more mem-
bers in paid employment. Average household wage income is lowest
in the new sites (Kelingi Rp 120,000 and Bingin Teluk Ro
134,000). Wage incomes in the middle sites fall between the two
extremes (Hitam Ulu RD 142,.;0 and Kuamang Kuning RD 165.000).
Over all sites, the average household income from wages was about
Rp 158,000.
It appears that participation in wage employment, although pos-
sibly initially stimulated by financial necessity, tends to be
maintained or increased over time. At the current state of
agricultural aevelopment in the project, settlers perceive the
returns to wage labour to be higher and less risky than the
returns to agricultural labour. The future crosoects for agricul-
tural development in the area are crucial if the move away from
agriculture to off-farm emoloyment is to be stemmed.
On average. 68 mandays of wage employment per housenold were
Dsuplied  in  t.Ae  Past  year.  The old sites do not provide sig-
nificantly greater quantities of off-farm labour tha,o the new the
63



sitas.Transmigration II PCR findings therefore do not support the
contention that off-farm labour suoply increases substautially as
settlement proceeds. Nor are households working off-farm to any
where near the maximum 190 days estimated in the World Sank
Transmigration Sector Review of 1986, despite the fact that they
have the low income levels l64% are below the poverty line) and
relative ease of access to off-site work (mcst sites are close to
the Trans Sumatran highway) that would suggest high uptake of
wage emoloyment.
Note that the term "off farm" can be misleading. Although a great
many settlers are working off their own allocated areas, 85% are
employed within, not away from,  the site.  Frequently,  they are
working on other settlers' land. Off-farm employment should
therefore be seen, at least in this project. as promoting site
develooment as a whole and thus as beneficial to overall regional
develooment. The sustainability of off-farm employment in the
project area is difficult to assess. However. the fact that
Kubang'Ujo, tt.e oldest of the sites settled under the project,
has   the   highest  level  of  household  income  from  off-farm
employment, followed by Singkut (Annex 1 section 5.2). suggests
that  off-farm employment  could be sustainable,  at least in the
medium term.
Farm labouring is the single most common form of off-farm
employment, being the occupation of about 28% of wage earners in
the new sites.   37-38% of wage earners in the old sites,  33% in
Hitam Ulu and a high of 54* in Kuamang Kuning. The lower in-
cidence of farm labouring in the new sites is most likely a con-
sequence of the early stage of agricultural development there.
with smaller cultivated areas and consequently. lower agricul-
tural  labour  demands.   Brick  laying.   saw  milling,   rattan
gathering, gold panning and unskilled labour are other common
forms of employment.
6.2. Pensions/Gifts
Almost all ABRI (transmigrants who are retirees from the armed
forces) receive pensions. Results from the PCR Socio-Economic
Survey confirm the very positive impact the pensioned and well-
disciplined ABRI have on site development. Kubang Ujo, which has
twice as many ABRI as any other site, also has household incomes
33% higher, on average, than any other Trans II site.
Many households also receive gifts of money particularly in the
very early stages of settlement as relatives in originating areas
assist their transmigrating family members to become established.
Over all project households, twenty percent receive pensions or
gifts of money averaging Rp 67,000 per annum.
Gifts of money are not stable sources of income, tending to be
one-off in nature. In the oldest site (Singkut), for instance,
64



only 9% of housenolas received gifts of money in' 1986/7,  wnereas
in the new sites, nearly Z0?6 of housenoids received pensions or
gifts of money.
6.3. Businesses
A diverse variety of businesses can be found in the project area
- from small snmos (11% of total). restaurants (11%), general
traders (32%) through to building contractors (6%) and gold min-
ing (13%). About 20?% of all households oPerate some kind of busi-
ness for an average annual gross return of about Rp 427,000.
Profits are approximately 30% of gross revenue.
As expected, business activity is highest in the old sites (where
28-33% households are business operators) and lowest in  the  new
s_tes (12-15% of housenolds).
6.4. Rents
As with pensions and gifts. rental income tends to diminish in
relative imoortance over time.  but it is an important source  of
income  in  the  develooment  phase of a site.  In the old sites.
rental income is received by 21-23% of households whereas in the
new  sites,  the  proportion  is  33-40%.  This  could be bec3use
agricultural activity in new sites is lower and thus. the need
and the opportunities for develooment of rental coerations as a
source of revenue are higher.
Pent receiving households earned an average of Rp 251.000 in the
oast year.
65



7. PROJECT COSTS
Audited data an final, total project costs are not yet available.
estimated project costs are US S 140.09 million. including a US S
S.5 million EEC Soecial Action  Credit.  A  tummary  analysis  of
aporaisal. revised and final costs is given in table 7.1. Details,
are proviced in Aopendix I: Table I.
Table 7.1:    Comoarison of Total Project Costs
(1)          (2)           (_1         (3i as %
Category             SAR         Revised        Actual          (2)
................. US S million.
Civil worKs         101.1         114.6          50.72        44%
Vehicles &
eau>ment            13.0           9.0           5.4'        60%
Relocation &
subsidies           26.6          27.1          10.67        39%
Mapping,consult-
ants.training       23.1          uZ.2          61.41*       99%
Agrochemicals        12.9           8.0           2.36        0%
Unallocated          6;.3            -
100% GOl funded
items               incl          14.1          9.50         67%
TOTAL               242.0         235.0         140.09        60%
*includes EEC Soecial Action Creoit of US S 5.5 million (with ex-
change rate adjustment). Actual amount disburt.ed was US S 4.4
million.
Total project cost. exoressed in US dollars, was only 60% of
revised estimate. Exoressed in local currency. however. total
project cost was Rp 1_.i629 million. This is equivalent to 87% of
the aaoraisal estimate (for settlement of 30,000 KK) in local
currency of Rp 151,250 million and 87% of  the  revised  estimate
(for settlement of 20,000 KK) of Rp 1574755 million (1982
rupiah).
The discreoancy between US dollar and local currency costs is a
reflection of differences in local inflation relative to interna-
tional levels and the corresponding sucessive devaluations of the
Ruoiah from US $1 equalling Rp 625 in 1979 to Rp 1450 in 1986/87.
With the excePtion of consultancy services, expenditures on all
66



items were far below estimates. With tne Ruoiah devaluations. the
project  had substanri.4   loan savings at oroject comoletion.  For
examole. the major single cost itenm was site preparatio;l. The SAR
estimatea  this  cost at $1,644/ha or US S 74 million for  70,000
families; the revises cost estimate amounted to S 1,750iha or US
SS2.5 million for 20.000 families. Site preparation contract
prices in 1985 were US S 700/ha or US $ 21 million for 20,000
f ami lies.
67



8. PISBURSEMENTS
The original Closing Date was December 31. 1985. After the
Government presented to the Bank an integrated 1986 Action Plan
by all agencies, the Loan was extended in March 1986 to 31 Decem-
ber 1986. At the same time, the Government requested the cancel-
lation of US $36 million of Loan/Credit procesas, which was sub-
seQuently effected in may 1986. The Bank agreed to continue reim-
bursement on eligible expenditures up to June 30, 1987, leaving 3
months for the agencies to prepare and for GOI and the 8ank to
process reimbursement. The Loan/Credit was closed on June 30,
1987.
The pace of disbursements dete-iorated over time. At the end of
the 1981 financial year. actual disbursements were 69% of ap-
praisal estimates but by the end of 1985. close to tne time the
project was originally excected to be comoleted.   only US $ 6&.4
million (49 %) of the Loan/Credit proceeas had been cisbursed.
Two factors were responsible - delays in land identification and
settlement and delays in the Government reouesting reimbursement.
The JMT itself had no authority over procurement matters. However
a rransmigration 11 team was formed in the JMT and to facilitate
coordination, copies of all procurement ana disbursement recuests
were sent by the agencies to the Transmigration I: team. Because
with review of tecnnical matters. Procurement procedures changed
in 1982 to take account of currenc GO} practices. However. the
pace of disbursements dic not improve.
Original and actual disbursements to eno June 1987 are shown in
table 7.2.
68



Table 7.2:   Ailocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
.(as of June 30.1987)
Category           Revised      Final           Actual Use as %
Allocation  Allocation      Final Allocation
US Sm   %   US Sm   %        VS Sm       %
Civil works       61.7   39    46.7    49        38.71      32
EQuiD.goods
cattle.           11.3    7    6.05       S       2.97       2
vehicles
Subsistence       16.0   10      7.0      6       5.88       5
Consultants       60.0   38   .56.5    46        55.35      46
Agrocnemicals      4.0    3      4.5      4       2.19       2
Unallocated        4.0    3    0.25       -          -       -
TOTAL            157.0  100   12' .0   100      105.10      87
CANCELLED                       36.0
Note: Balance of US S 15.9 million is 6stimated to remain
unutilizec.
Table 7.3 comoares actual disbursements with the SAR schedule.
Table  7.3:   Schedule of Disbursements
US S million
FY          Ao. raisal        Actual         Actual as %
Bank    EcC    Bank    EEC       Aopraisal
FY 80      0.3    0.7        0      0              0
FY 81     19.5    5.5    13.5    1.6              69
FY 82     52.0            30.0    3.3             58
FY 83     87.0            50.0    3.6             57
FY 84    115.0            63.1    5.5             55
FY 80.   152.0            74. 0                   49
FY 86    157.0           88.32                   S56
FY 87                    105.5                    67
Note:  US  S 30 million was cancelled in may 1986.  EEC disburse-
ments include exchange adjustment; actual amount disbursed was US
S 4.4 million.
s9



9. ECONOMIC IMPACT
9.1. Aporaisal Estimate
The farm model in the SAR. upon which the acoraisal estimate of a
12% ERR was based. focussed on agricultural income. The SAR also
assumed  there would be substantial benefits attributable to tim-
ber harvested during land  clearing  ocerations  -  the  SAR  ERR
without timber was 9%.
It is evident from the results of the PCR socio-economic'survey
(Annex 1) that a substantial proportion of total household incone
is derived off-farm.  Many settlers are following the strategy of
oursuing whatever off-farm employment oportunities  exist  since
these  usually  offer higher returns to lacour at lower risk than
cultivation of additional food crops whicn must be marketed. In
the  PCR  estimate of the project's ERR.  therefore.  income from
off-farm activities has been an important consideration.
Regarding timber bensfits.  these have been minimal in  practice.
Not  only  did the SAR overestimate the volustes of commercial and
usaole timber in the project area. but tne major scaling down of
the project in 1982 resulted in corres onding major reductions in
area to be cleared.
Finciings of the PCR survey (see Annex 1)  have  been  drawn  uoon
heavily in the financial and economic analysis of the project
which follows.
9.2. Financial Returns
At the time of aporaisal. potential transmigrants and existing
settlers in the area earned a subsistence income, estimated a:
about Rp 110,000 (Rp 210,0O0 in 1987 valuesj. At the then
prevailir; exchange rate, without project incomes were thus about
US $176 per year.
rhe sAR farm budget analysis estimated that at full farm develoo-
ment in year five, household incomes would increase by 226% to
reacM RD 249,000 (Ro 471.000 in 1987 values) or the eauivalent
of US $398 per year. Over 90% of household income was expected to
be from crop production. Off-farm income. envisaged as being
mainly  derived  from  employment in project construction.  would
contribute*about 8%.of total net-income at full development but
would be more important in the early settlement phase, contribut-
70



ing 18% in year 2. 15% in year 3 and 11% in year 4.
As PCR findings in table 9.1 show. SAR expectations regarding tne
imoortance of agricultural activities as a source of housenoid
income have not been  realized.  On  the  contrary,  income  from
agriculture  (including  home  consumption) over  all sites oniy
slightly exceeds household income from off-farm activities.
Table  9.1:   Household Income by Site  1987
... Agric Prod ....   Wages   Other        Total
Gross   Prod    Net            off-
value   costs                  farm
..................   Rp '000 .      .....       US s
Kelingi       236      22     214    120      109       443   270
8 Teluk       214      39     175    134      203        512   312
Singkut       431      45     386    187      106       679   414
Kubang Ujo    4SO      77     403    231      292       926   565
Hitam Ulu     378      27     351.   142      112       605   369
K Kuning      395      31     Z64    165      199       728   444
Overall       371      35     33a6   158      163       657   401
Note: agricultural production figures include livestock
As household consumotion averages Rp 158,000 per annum. cash in-
come from all sources (net of crop production costs) is nearly Ro
500.000/year. If cash income alone is considered. off-farm ac-
tivities assume an even greater importance, accounting for 64% of
total. whereas sale_ of agricultural surpluses (net of produC:4_:
costs) contribute only 36% to total cash income (see Annex I -
section 5.4).
!       Understandably. income levels in the new sites are lower.  But in
all  sites  except  Kelingi.  household  income levels exceed tne
level expected at appraisal.  The fair comparison is  SAR  income
expectations with actual income in Singkut and Kubang Ujo since
only these two sites could be considered to have reached full-
development. In these sites, household incomes are 44%. (Singkut)
and 97°% (Kubang Ujo) higher than aopraisal expectations. In
Kuamang Kuning. incomes are 39% higher, in Hitam Ulu, 28% higner
and even in Bingin Teluk, 9% higher.
OesPite the downward depreciation of the Ruoiah since 1979, over-
all average household income levels expressed in US dollar equiv-
alents are ma;ginally greater than SAR expectations  and  if  the
two new sites are omitted. average household incomes are US S 421
or 6X higher than appraisal estimates.
In order to present an approximation of the relative position of-
71



project  beneficiaries.  Transmigration II household incomes were
compared with the Susenas benchmarK for family poverty  level  in
rural  households  of Ro 50.OO/month (erna 1986 valuesi.  Site by
site comparisons are given in Annex I 5...  At  KubanS  Ujo.  the
mosz affluent  site.  42°;  of  houSeholCs fell below the ooverty
line. In all other sites. 61% or more families failed to reacn
.minimum  poverty  levels.  Overall.  64o  of project benefic-:.Aries
fell below the family poverty level.
In the 1985 Cer(tral Bureau of Statistics (BPS) income surve-' of
2.200 housemolds.  only 36% of the 977 Reoelita III uoland trans-
migration  households  surveved  hao  incomes  below  che  famil.,
poverty leveL.
In comparison with BPS householos. Transmigration II settlers are
suDstantially worse off. Their incomes are significantly lower
than the average income of families in rural Java and only half
tnat ef families in rural receiving areas.
It is not surPrising that incomes in the new South Sumatra sites
are .ow. Transmigrants are poor orior to deoarture. families are
young and 30% have been on site for lose than 6 months. Monthly
incomes for Transmigration II settlers who have been on site for
five or so years (Kubang Ujo) are higher than both rural Javy  in-
comes and the BPS average but lower than receiving areas. Set-
tlers at Singkut, who have been on site for at least seven years.
have incomes about the same as settlers in sites of 3-4 years of
agez all are below Java and receiving area incomes.
Although project incomes are in general lower than Java  incomes.
settlers are not necessarily worse off. They were selected from
the poorest section of the Java  pooulation  but  now  (excludinl
setz:ers in tne South Sumatra sizes) at leasc *35% are above
poverty level. They have assets - land, a hcuse,  livestocK - anc
are more than meeting subsistence recuirements. Over three-
cuarters consider their incomes to Oa better than when they
moveo. Nearly all are extremely octimistic aoout their futurs
prospects as transmigrants.
9.2.1. Income from Agriculture
Over the entire project area, average gross agricultural income
per housenold was Rp 2L3.000. made uo as follows;
palawija &
vegetables        45%
fruit             22%
estate croPs        9%
rice               4 %
livestock         20%.
72



Househoid consumption (excluding consumotion of small livestocKj
valuea at fa.-mgate prices averaged Rp i56.000. giving a average
gross   value   for  agricultural  proauction  per  housenoia  of
Ro _71.000.
The sizeable contribution to agricultural income of sales of
small livestock is of interest. This was a source of income that
was not considered in the SAR but is clearly of imoort3nce. both
as a Source of revenue. supolement to household consumption and
store of wealth.
As mentioned earlier, the present contribution to total agricul-
tural income of estate crops will increase over the next five
years as many more of the relatively extensive plantings reach
maturity.
9.2.2. Off Farm Income
Off farm activities are described in section 6 above. For all six
sites. the average annual income per household from off-farm ac-
tivities was Ro 321.000 (compared with average value of agricul-
tural production, including-home consumption, of Rp 371,000).
comprised of:
wages            49%
pensions/gifts  21%
rents           2 2e
business         8%
9.:. Rates of Return
Economic analysis cannot caoture the unquantified costs (sucn as
environmental degradation and loss of forest resourcasj and
benefits (regional development) of the project.  However,  as the
Bank had calculated an economic  rate  of  return  (ERR)  to  the
project at the time of appraisal, the ERR has been reestimated cw
comoare what is known now with prior expectations.
The SAR calculation of the project's ERR was based upon the
benefits   exoected   to   accrue   from  increased  agricultural
production. In reality, off-farm activities have been almost as
imoortant as farm production to settlers' welfare. The SAR also
assumeo there would be substantial benefits attributable to tim-
ber harvested during land clearing operations. In practice, these
have been minimal (see below).
Unfortunately. the comprehensive information required for the PCR
ERR calcul4tiin. on actual agricultural production and off-farm
income for each site in each of the years since settlement began
until the present. was not obtainable. Information from the PCR
73



survey has therefore-been extraoolated to establish the "f low of
benefits over the life of the project. PCR findings on the 'oid'
sices are heLd to be reoresercative of sites in the fifth to
sixth year of settlement; ''middle' sites reoresent the tmird to
fourth year of settlement; 'new' sites,  the first to second year
of settlement. Benefits from the beginning of project imolementa-
tion until the present have been phased according to the rate of
settlement.  For the remainder of the Project life (assumed to be
30 years), benefit streams for agricultural production ana off-
farm income are described below.
9.3.1. Prices and Costs
For the economic analysis. farm inputs and outputs have been
valued at present and projected 1987 farmgate prices, expressed
in constant 1987 terms. For rice. maize. groundnucs. fertilizers
and pesticides. these prices have been derived from World Bank
commodity forecasts for world market prices and adjusted for
transoortation, processing ano handling costs. Cassava and the
remaining crops not traded on the international market have been
expressed in terms of actual farm gate prices in 1987.
Tacle 9.2:   Financial and Economic Prices for Outputs and Inouts
Fin.                                  Economic   Price
Price    .     Ro/kg .
COMMODITY    1987   1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995-
Race          216    240  258  276  286  287  288  289  289  290
Maize         171    24Z  251  249  24'  240  237  234  2i1  227
Groundnuts   1Z68    515  525  555  585  589  593  597  601  605
Cassava        23
Soybeans      494
Green beans   490
Long beans    104
Chillies      810
Bananas       584/bunch
Pineaoples     49/fruit
Ramoutan      742
Cloves       5121
Coffee       16c0
Fertilisers   120    330  360  390  420 420  420  420  420  420
Pesticides   2500   7000 7000 ......... 7000
A urea and TSP
Farm and family labour have been costed at the daily wage rate in
74



Jambi and South Sumatra provinces (RP 2,000/day in 1987). shadow
priced witn a conversion factor of 0.82. The economic cost o.
labour is thus RP 1.640/aay. Laoour costs are projectea to in-
crease in line with growth in per caoita Gross Domestic Income
(1988 1.1%. 1989 2.8%, 1990 2.5%. 1991-95 3.5%. 1996-98 3.7%.
1999 onwards 0%)
9.3.2. Project Benefits
The assumotions maoe in the course of estimat.ng project benefits
in the five sites wnich were completrly developed under the
project are described below. Incremental benefits attributable to
the  project's  upgrading  program  at  Singkut   are   addressed
separately.
9.Z.2.1. Wages
Earnings  from  farm  labouring    have been excluded because the
benefits to this form of employment are already caotured in in-
creased value of agricultural production.
Earnings from unsKilled labour are discounted because most of
Ais is depencent uoon early settlement development  expenditures
(e.g. construction of settlers' houses) which will not be sus-
tainea and the final benefit from which (agricultural production)
is  already incorporated.
Each housenold is assumed to suoply 70 mandays off-farm labour in
the first year. increasing to 78 mandays in year 5 and reacning a
maximum  of  100  mandays in year 16.  About 35% is assumee to be
farm lacour or settlement generatea and is therefore excludes.
(PCR  survey  results  give    average  housenold off-farm labour
supply of 68 mandays. ranging from 60 mandays at Kuamang Kuning
to 84 mandays at Singkut. A minimum of 28% of this emoioyinenr was
farm laouuring and it reached a high of 54% at one siteJ.
wage income is projected to increase at the same rare as
crojected per capita increases in Gross Domestic Income.
9.3.2.2. Other Off-farm Income
Pensions/gifts  ana  rents  are transfer payments and as sucn are
excluded.
Net business income is included as a benefit. under the assump-
tion that no additional costs are associated wi-th the creation of
business opportunities. Participation in business activities is
assumed to begin in year 2 with 5% of housenolds involved in such
operations-, increases to 20% at year 5 and reaches a maximum of
75



3%E in year 10. Business income is also Projected to increase at
tne same rate as orojected per capita increases in Gross Domestic
Income.
PCR finaings indicated average net business income ranged from Ro
24.000 at one of the new sites (Kelingi) to Rp 235.000 in an old
site (Kuoang Ujo), with an overall average of Ro 128.000. Par-
ticipation averaged 13% in the new sites. 18% in the middle sites
and 30% in the old sites. Business net income is therefore as-
sumed to begin at RD 40.000 per year ano increase to Ro 200.000
in year 5. thereafter growing at the same rate as Gross Domeitic
Incoir. per capita.
9.'.2._. Agriculture
As funding for oroposed develoPments of Lahan II areas, such as
oil palm estates. will be provided from sources other than the
project, benefits from these activities are not taken into con-
siceration in the economic analysis. although undoubtedly they
will have an impact upon the financial welfare of Transmigration
Ir settlers.
Using 'Old' site agricultural proauction (including livestocx and
home consumption) as a year 6 benchmark, the assumed growth in
gross value agricultural production in the new sites is;
Year              1    2    '    4    5    6    7    8    9    10
as 10 yr o       20%  SC%  80%  87%  94% 100% 106% 112% 118%  12426
acric orod
11   12   1'   14   15   16   17-30
130% 136% 142% 148% 154% 160% 160%
PCR survey data. indicate that 3ross agricultural income at the
new sites (1-2 years old) was 49% of that at the 'old' sites (5-v
years old) and gross agricultural income at the middle sites (3-4
years old) was 85%.
most of the increased value in agricultural production beyona
vear 5 is attributable to cash tree crop (coffee, cloves.
coconuts) and fruit tree production.
9.Z.2.4. Timber
Compared to SAR expectations. a greatly reduced amount of commer-
cial timoer was cut from the project area. The SAR estimated the
clearing of 45,000 ha for the settlement of 30.000 KK would
produce 1.1 million cu m of timber that could be sold locally or
76



exoorted. The economic value of this timber was estimated to be
Ro  2.0  billion  in  the  secona  year  pf  the project (100% of
benefits in. that year).  RD 4.5 billion in  year  three  (9-°* of
benefits in the third year). Ro 5.3 billion in years four and
five (79% of year 4 and 6-% year 5 benefits  respectively),   Rp
2.6   billion  in  year  six  (34%  year  6  benefits)  and  zero
thereafter. The SAR estimate of ERR fell to 9% from 12% if tnese
benefits were excludea.
At  the  time  of the PCR.  information on the quantity of timber
stockpiled and sold was available for Kubang Ujo only. In all
other sites, timber extraction was the resoonsibility of the
forest concessionaire, not the land clearing contractor, and the
the consulting engineers suoervising tne lana clearing aid not
keeo any records. The supervising engineers state that 25.900 cu
m of timoer was extracted from Kubang Ujo, about 12.000 cu m of
which was suitable for commercial sale.
Kubang Ujo before clearing was virgin forest. Most other sites
had been at least partially harvested prior to land clearing. If
it is assumed that commercial timber was extracted from the other
sites at only half the rate at Kubang Ujo. then a rough estimate
of the total commercial timoer extracted under the project is
l00,000  cu  m - 9% of original estimates.  Even when the SAR es-
timate is prorated to take into. consideration the scaling down of
the project to 20.000 KK. actual. commercial timoer extracted is
only 14?" of anricioated volume.
Another factor of relevance is the Government ban on export of
raw logs, announced in 19G0 (after appraisal) and implemented in
a steo-wise manner until comoletely achieved in 198S. This policy
chnange could not have been foreseen at the time the SAR esr±mate
of timber benefits was prepared.
Because of the uncertainty presently surrounding the data. the
PCR has not includea any benefits from timoer in its reworking of
the  ERR.  although  a  sensitivity analysis has been carriea out
(see 9.4.3.1).
9.3.2.5. Singkut
In the case of Singkut. the expectea benefits from the project
are difficult to assess. The site was comoletely settled before
tne project, the uograding program under the project was delayed
and did not get under way until 198., and baseline data is scarce
and incomplete. A limited survey undertaken of Singkut households
in  1983  estimated  annual income from all sources at Rp 492.000
(1987 financial terms).  PCR survey  results  for  1987  indicate
about 60% of total income in Singkut was attributable to agricul-
tural production (including home consumotion). Applying this per-
centage gives Rp 295.000 (1987 prices) as the value of agricul-
77



turai proouction in Singkut in 1983.  This figure.  aopropriately
snadow priced. is acooted as the baseline, from which annual in-
creases of 10* are assumed until 1987 ana constant thereaftsr.
Since perennial crops were Planted before the Project and the
costs of the rubber program taking place at Singkut are being met
by the SROP project. the benefits from these activities can not
be attributed to the Transmigration II project.
As far as incremental off-farm benefits at Singkut are concerned.
these have been assumed to be zero. Undoubtedly,  the oroject did
result in some soin off benefits in this area. However their in-
cremental value would ce very small in the context of overall
project benefits (businesses and off-farm employment were already
widescread in Singkut at the time of the project).  Their  exclu-
sion is most unlikely to make an aporeciable difference to the
ERR calculation.
9.3.Z. Project Costs
9,.3..1. Labour
Farm and family labour have been shadow priced at Rp 1640/day and
increase in line with growth in per c3oita Gross Domestic Income.
Present and projected lacour inputs are significantly lower than
SAR  projections,  reflecting the much greater importance of off-
farm activities to settler welfare and conseQuently reduced
agricultural activity. Whereas the SAR estimated total labour
recuirements per housenold to rise from 254 mandays in year I to
309 mandays in year 2 and remain constant thereafter. PCR obser-
va:ions su-est, that overall average labour inouts are  presently
arounc 110 mandays per year, of which 5% is hirea. New sites
naturally have lower manday requirements at about 85 mandays/KK.
In the PCP. ERR calculation, it has been assumed that labour
recuirementz will rise from a year 6 representative level
of 110 mandays to 140 mandays in year 16 in support of the in-
creasea agricultural activity which is presumed to take olace
over that period.
9.3.3.2. Cost Adjustments
Adjustments have been made to actual project costs to reflect the
prooortions of expenditure more properly allocaLed to the Na-
tional Program. These are consultancy costs relating to site sur-
veying and planning under the SFSE '80 program (the benefits and
costs of this activity should be incorporated in the transmigra-
tion projects to which they directly relate): 30% of MOT and
Agricuitural   Teehnical   Team   (ATT)  within  MOA  consultancy
services: 50.0 of MOT and ATT training costs; 30% of MOT and ATT
acministration and overhead costs.
78



Adjus4ments for al1ocation of project costs to national orogram:
1980/1  1981/2  1982/T  1983/4  1984/5  1985/6  1986/7
US Sm   3.43    15.05    9.91    6.99    2.27    1.29    0.84
.9.3.3.3. Administration
It has been assumed that Government administration and overhead
costs relating to the management of Transmigration 1I project in
the remaining years of project life (1988-2011) total US S I m
per year (1987 values) or about US $ 50 per family.
9.3.4. Rate of Return
Under the above assumotions. the revised ERR for Transmigration
II project is 2.70 (SAR estimate 12%).
A summary table of project costs and benefits is presented below.
Details are provided in Appendix I- Table II.
Taole 9.3:    PCR Estimate of ERR
US S million
Year   At:rib Costs  Project  Benefits           Net Benefits
Off-farm Agric Total
'1981      10.47     0.031   (0.006)   (0.024)   (10.45.)
1982       1 1 . 37  0.046    0.030       0.076    (11.29)
1983       13.39     0.377    0.618       0.995    (12.40)
1984       15.47     0.608    0.912       1.520    (13.95)
1985       12.72      1.229    1.651      2.880    ( 9.84)
1986       10.84      1.805    2.097      3.902    ( 6.94)
1987       26.04      1.999    2.232      4.230    (21.81)
1988        1.00     2.076    2.342       4.418       3.42
1989        1.00     2.192    2.436       4.628      3.63
1990        1.00     2.306    2.576       4.882      3.88
1991        1.00     2.355    2.713       5.068    . 4.07
1992        1.00     2.405    3.024       5.429       4.43
1993        1.00     2.456    3.347       5.802      4.80
1994        1.00     2.507    3.670       6.177       5.18
1995        1.00     2.558    3.981       6.539      5.54
1996        1.00     2.625    4.304       6.929      5.93-
1997        1.00     2.657    4.304       6.961      5.96
1998        1.00     2.690    4.304       6.994      5.99
to 2011
Economic Rate of Return   2.67%
79



Aooraisal Estimate        12.0%
In the PCR estlinace of the project:s ERR. only 62% of the
benefits at ful- oevelooment are attrizutable to agriculture.
This is in contrast to the SAR estimate wnere all benefits at
full develooment were from agricultural activities.
9.3.4.1. Sensitivity Analysis
If real agricultural income growth over the next 10 years is less
than the 60 % anticipated and/or pro4ect aoministration costs
increase, then the rate of return declines. If. for examole. real
growth in agricultural incomes was only 40% over the next 10
years. the ERR would fall to 1.49% . It off farm income were to
fall 25%. everything else remaining unchanged, the ERR would be
1.71%. If the impact of an only 40% real increase in agricultural
income were added to a 2S% increase in project administracion
costs. the ERR would fall to 1.11%
Ciad the project not achieved substantial loan savings through the
sucessive devaluation of the Rupiah. over the project imPlementa-
tion period. the ERR would undoubteoly have been negative.
An attemot was made to estimate the project's ERR if timber
benefits were incluoea. Assuming a total yield of 100.000 cu m
spreaa over the years 1981-6.000 cu m; 1982-18,000 cu m; 1983-
Z0.000 cu m: 1984-Z0.000 cu m: 1985-10.000 cu m: 1986-6,000 cu m
at  a  vaiue of US $ 75 cu m (indicative FOB comoosite round wooc
equivalent). the ERR is 3.3  , This figure snould be treac; wi:h
caution. given the great uncertainty whicn surrounds tne data on
timoer eytractea from the project sites.
80



10. INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT
Unlike the first World Bank assisted transmigration project.
Transmigration IS was carried out under the same institutional
arrangements as tne overall program. Theze were laid down in
Presidential Oecree No 26 of 1978. The Junior Minister for rrans-
migration (JMT) was intencea to coorainate overall activities;
the resoonsibility for transmigration was distributea among the
line agencies ordinarily in charge of each sector, chiefly.
Public WorKs. Agriculture. Home Affairs. Trade and Cooperatives
and Manpower. Each agency was expected to plan their own ac-
tivities and budgets.
Because Transmigratic. II was the first major project to be
imolementec under the new. and essentially untested arrangements,
the project inciudea technical assistance to the Office of the
JMT to aia in coordination of the overall program. The major line
agencies were also provided with tecnnical assistance to assist
in projec: imolementation. A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was.
to  be  established within the Office of the JMT and several com-
ponents were included to promote spontaneous transmigration.
1.0.1. Coordination Between Agencies
Because  of  the  allocation  of  implementation   responsibility
a.mongzt the various line agencies, no single person or Project
Manager   was   responsible   for   all   aspects   of    project
implementation. There were as many as 16 PimPros (Project
Managers). each responsible for a cluster of inputs, activities
and services. Under these arrangements. tne JMT role was pivocal.
Unfortunately. interagency coordination within the project (as
well as the program as a whole) was poor. The JMT did not have
the authority, permanent staff or budget to carry out its task.
Consequently. the project provided assistance to improve program
management and set up a planning. budgeting and monitoring ano
evaluation system was not well utilized. However, the consultants
and JE.T staff did contribute sucessfully to the highlighting of
managerial problems which eventually led to the formation of
a new ministry of Transmigration (MOT) in 1983. The MOT was given
expanded staff and functions in order to imorove financial and
administrative control.
Following the establishment of MOT. coordination improved al-
though problems persisted with the delivery of agricultural
packages and construction of houses, disagreements with the
81



Deoartment of Forestry over land use. ooor agricultural e:ter.nson
ana  siow  coooerative   develooment.   Within   MOT.   piann;.ng'
buageting. monitoring and evaluazion remained weaK.
10.2. Monitoring and Evaluation
The special Ma-itoring and Evaluatton Unit within the Regional
Coordinator's Office was never set uD ano the systems deveiosea
by  the  consultants  for    monitoring  financial  and  physical
progress and measuring socio-economic imoact were not sucess!jQlly
institutea. Given that che JMr hao been orovided witm neirner
sufficient autnority nor adecuate staff to manage the transmigra-
tion program. this was not surorising.
10.3. Sooni.aneous Transmigrat.on
The comoonents included in the project to encourage soontansous
transmigration were not carried out. Given the pressures to
achieve  tne  greatly  increased targets for transmigr.ation unoer
Repelita III. officials were understancably more preoccupiee with
the larger ouestions o'f land identification. pro.ject implementa-
tion and settlement for fully assisted transmigrants. The execu-
tion -of an innovative component in the large GOI program with
. uniform.standards could not be a priority. An aoaitional dif-
ficulty was that the Directorate resoonsible for deveisoing
programs for partially assisted and spontaneous transmigrnnts did
not have sufficient authority to carry out this task.
1C.4. 3'e Screening and Evaluation
The project was suceessful in instituting new, 'improved stancards
for site screening ana evaluation cue to tne work carried ouz by
consultants  under  the supervision of the OG of City of Re4:cnal
Planning in the Ministry of Public Works witn the assistance of
an expatriate Technical Advisory Group (see sections 4.S.; and
4.5.2).
82



LI. SPECIAL ISSUES
ll.l. Imolementation Problems
The three broad categories of proolems tnat have arisen in the
course  of  Transmigration  II  are technical,  institutional anc
inmrastruc:ural. Tecnnical proolems have related mainly to
the soil ana croo management techniques necessary to be adopted
by the transmigrant in order for him to extract his targeteo
livelihood in the longrerm from the land allocated to him. In-
stitutional and infrastructural problems have hindered the ao-
plication of farming techniques,  even' where  appropriate  tech-
nicues are known.
The three categories of problems experienced are inextricably
linkea.  Wit-hout adequate infrastructure  and  institutions.  the
sites have not achieved their agricultural. social and economic
development  potential.   As  all-weather  access  has  not  been
provideg to the more remote areas of some sites.  the delivery of
agricultural inputs and services and the marketing of agricul-
tural proouction has been less than optimal.
11.2. Institutional Problems
Until tne start of Recelita III in 1979.  tne organisation of all
transmigration   activities   was   undertaken    by    the    DG
Transmigration. Since then, responsibilities have been subdividea
amongst various ministries.  Over SO seoarate government agencies
are  now  involved  in  the  provision  of  services  and inputs.
Proolems arose when delayed imolementation on  the  oart  of  one
agency  lea to difficulties with the planned and budgeted efforts
E        of other agencies.
The establishment of a new Ministry of Transmigration in 198' and
!        associatea  Directorates General for Mobilization and Development
(the former OG Transmigration) and Settlement Preoaration (the
former  Puolic works Directorates resoonsiole for site selection.
evaluation and land preparation) resulted in some imorovement  in
overall  program coordination.  However,  continued strengthening
will be necessary if MOT  is  to  successfully  meet  its  future
responsibilities  involving  new  settlement  with tree crops ana
otner cash croos.  second stage development activities and promo-
tion of spontaneous settlement.
83



ii.Z. Technical Problems
11.3.1. Labour Shortages
where settlements are not self-sufficient in food. a shortage of
labour within settlements is a critical constraint to the rate of
land development and thereby crop production. eecause of the fooc
deficit, settlers seek off-farm employment to earn cash with
wnicn  to  purchase  food.  There  is a neeo to break this labour
nexus and so enable settlers to remain in the settlements, invest
labour in land development and thereby become self-sufficient.
11.3.2. Land and Souls
In general.  soils in the Transoigration II settlements are  only
marginally suitable for development. The so-s belong to the red-
yellow Podzolic class and are characterised by low fertility,
tnin too soil coverings. high acidity and aluminium toxicity.. As
tne  period  of  time  over wnich settlers nave been growing food
increases. it is very common to find decreasing crop yields. The
consequence is that settlers often are not able to generate
acequate foodcrop surpluses for sale to produce a significant
cash income.
'il  SFSE consultants agreed on the high level of inouts recuired
for successful cropoing on these soils.  The levels of fertiliser
and lime recommended were very much  g.igher than those supplied to
transmigrantz in the "package" of fertilisers.
11.3.3. Farm Models
Trtansmigration planning and implementation have been    based  on
the assumption that proven field level technologies exist and
that only the methodology of transferring these to the    farmers
need to '_e emohasised. This assumption is valid for tree crops
production , to the extent that technologies for estate bases
commodities are well-known and proven. albeit requiring a level
of capital and managerial intensity generally in exc3ss of what
could be mobilised within a transmigration settlement.For arable
rainfed farmlands. however. the assumption is by no means valid.
At present. there is no alternative but to exploit these lands
for foodcrop production at. least until the slower maturing tree
crops are bearing and providing a cash income. part of which can
be used for food purchases.
The application of the standard settlement development food croo
mooel on podzolic soils which characterise most uoland sites for
transmigration. induces a long-term dependence of the farmer on
84



chemical f.er:ti.zees to sustain even relatively low yields of an-
nual fooo croos.  _: is uni2ke±v tha: small farmers  on low yieil
ootoLnti   .~-nre5a lana in outlying areas  will  oe  mocivacec  -
aopiv  arv . igner srooortion of fert:liser recommended,  even i-
basxc suzol/ orzoie-ar. could be overcome. .4n acoicional -ros'nem t
that  wn.le  wide aotl.ication of a fooc crc- moael may contriouce
to the national goal of self -sufficiency, it may not (given cur-
rent orices for fooa grains ana expectea yielcs, maximise farme-
income ana minimise settlers' exposure to riSK.  There is a  nee
to  examine  alternative and possibly site scecific farm aeveioc-
ment moce,s.
11.-.4. Optimal Use of Land
Availaoie lana tnat meets all the design criteria of the stancara
model 04 development is rapidly becoming scarce. Planners are
forcec to icentiry increasingly marginal areas in order  to  meet
the urgsnt targets of the GOI's transmigration program. Gent!y
slooing -Aryana in most of the outer islanas has already oeen oc-
cuciec wnerever is is suitable for snifting cultivation. wnere
such l.ana is still under forest. ic is either protected by tne
Forbst:ry  Decartment or it has been left unoccupiea because i: is
unsui:az4a for agriculture. More advancaa agricultural technioucs
a.ilow sreatsr flexibility in the use of more marginal terrain ou:
greater -lexibil-:y :n apolying *the strict oesign standards  must
also - a-lowed.
The  _.* - iO  oro'iram  was  aimed  primarily at the selec:.on ana
oiann;r.i f settlement sites for the -stancard- develoomen:
mode_.       larg   numoer of sites indestigatea by the Consulzancs
couldr not be recommended for tnis "szancarc' develooment cue to
tne or35snce a. steep sioPes or aaversa arainage. However i,
there nac been greater flexibility in the cnoice of farm mocel,
many  ,' zhese sites cou,.d have been develcoed.  Adcotion of non-
stancar- models fcr cevelopment wouic necessitate consiceration
of fac:.zrs sucn as settler suoport levels and orovisions for
drainage or irrigation works. These would have to be reflectec in
lana  ciearing  and  site  development  contracts.  But  tce ai;-
ficul_ies associatea with these factors, particularly the higner
Costz. mighc be more than offset by the more integrated deveioz-
ment of an area as a whole.
11.'._. infrastruc:ural Problems
While settiers uncer the project, and the region as a whole, have
benefitea from the roads. public facilities and housing estab-
lisnea under the project, regular preventive maintenance and
upgracing will be necessary if the benefits from these facilities
are to be sustained in the long term. It is already apparent in
some areas that tne budgetary ana organisational provisions for
85



maintenance are not adeauare. This problem is being adoressea in
the policy statements presentlv being oreoared by MOT recaroinG
transmigration activities in che future.
11.4. Second Stage Development
With the decline in crop yielc;s experienced in somc sites
(notably  Singkut),  some  transmigrants  have  left the sites in
search oKl off-farm emoloyment and others have reverted  to  their
initial  poverty  level.  This is not a prooiem exclusive to this
project alone. Within the Government's transmigration program. it
has been estimated that 300,000 transmigrants have less tnan full
aevelopment of their lands and are not. yet socially and economi-
caily self-sufficient. This is largely because. until recently,
tecnnical support ana investment in transmigration has mainly
been  concentrated  on  site  identification,  land  clearing anc
settlement preoaration. The "second generation" problems of less
than full social. economic ano agricultural development have
emerged. In response. Reoelita IV targets were revised and
instead. greater emohasis is being given to adoaressing the
develooment needs of existing settlers. This new emohasis is
termed 'secona stage- transmigration settlement develooment. A
manor inPut will be the World Bank Loan Project. Transmigration
Vi.  which  is  currently  being  precarea  by the FAO/World Bank
Cowera3ive Program.
11.5. ;AAR
The emonasis of AARD wor!< has been on the develooment of farm
systems researcn as an academic discioline rather than on the
iaentification.   cevelopment ano promotion of simple.  low  ri sK
ano practical systems caoaole of being implemented anc suszainec
by zhe transmigrants themselves after an acoropriate Period of
tecnnology transfer (extension-oriented approacn).
11.6. Develooment Nuclei
To the extent that the Tranemigration II project c3n be said to
have achieved its ooiectives. this is partly attribuiaoie to for-
tuitous   factors of project design.  viz..  proximity to a major
access route in the Trans Sumatran highway. Clearly. sucn cir-
cumstance is not reolicable in all areas proposed for transmigra-
tion settlement. In general. the Indonesian experience has been
that the transmigration sites which are the relatively more
successful are those in the more densely populated areas betzer
served with infrastructure. In these circumstances, the sites
function as development nuclei.
86



11.7. Cactle Program
The potenclal benefits from cattle utilization in transmigracion
areas ars substantial. The World Bank/IFAD project estimated that
oroiect cattle owners Plougned twic3 the area plougned by non-
projec: farmers. and increasec tneir value of crop sales by more
tzan 100% over the 5 year period for whicn cattle had been owned.
There also aopeared to be significant suos-itution of arable croo
sales for off-farm income suggesting tnat farmers who plougn are
more self-sufficient and less csoendant on non-farming activities
for their cash income recuirements.
For similar benefits to accrue to Transmigracion 1I cattle
owners, several outstanding proolems need to be resolved. A
program needs to be established to produce and distribute draft
eauioment. At present. no sucn action is planned by the provin-
cial authorities.
Livestock extension services are undereouicoed  and  inadeauatelv
staffed. PPL knowleage of animal feeds and feeding. animal health
measures ane araft utilization must be imoroved.
The use of croo residues (cassava leaves and peelings. dry soya
pods, rice bran) needs to be encouragec. Pasture establishment
will become more critical as cattle numoers increase.
Under the terms and conditions of the credit extenced (two c3lves
to be returneq within five years for each cow). tne cattle owner
will only benefit if he has ac least a cow and a one-year-old
c53i, at the end of the credit period. The quality of the animal
z Ze d  .in ita-y to tba farmer therefore is a crucia"  determi-.a.:
of the vaiue of the program to the intenceo beneficiary.
87



APPENDIX I
TABLE I: TOTAL PPOJECT COSTS
TABLE II: PCR ESTIMATE OF ERR
88



&FENDX f: 'ABLE i
TSM GR[GATION Ul PARO-r - ACML R1     C
AM   FlPENDM6R
CAT=          1980/81      1981/82     1982183      1983/84     1384185      1985186     1986i8?      TOtAL
,,-                                      IN ElIIA  V[LI(i
1         1096.717    1992.514      517.861    363.581        426.55     630.146    1540.188   10578.i1
.         1090.125      W5.6?        31.4U       120.1U         .931i      14.442      19.158     1iV,.i7
a                0     618.801      429.274      1230.22    099.021      410.79?       896.-04    54.:3
4          130.067            0           0         31.4     194.30?           0      191.915     548.g89
5           38.833            0      o3.136          5.4       5.392           0            0      i3.301
AODlKYl;v8     1079.103    125T.77?       491.81    1600.338    178 .191      48.396    1900.873    859M.548
TOTAL          3434.885    4084.168    1545.564       5351.5     5421.892    1543.781    4798.774   26131.224
IN US DuL  MILLION       --
EfIANE            636.9        636.5       674.2        383.4      1049.5       1110.2        1450
1            1.749       3.130        0.783       2.403        2.312       0.563       1.063       It.J64
a            I.i39       0.339        0.050       0.i22        0.014       0.013       0.186        L.4602
3            0.uOO       C.91         0.637       1..51        0.952       0.367       0.618        4.196
4            MA0.3       0.000        0.000       1.032        0.185       0.000       0.132        ozS51
S            d0.06l2     6.00         0.094       0.00'        0.006       0.000       0.600        ).itil
AIOBIEAIi         1.?2.1       1.976       0.730       i.62?        1.697       0.436        1.311       M.4H
TTAL              5.419        6.418       2.209       5.442        i.i66       1.378        3.309      35.485
moImE GF Wl/Cifor' PIS
C&TEI;OI        1980ia1      1981182     1982Ui3      isa3Zv64    i9i4        1985i86      1867i         tTTAL
0.000        48.086      8.i0        4.96i       4.576        5.S5       14.410       U32.1
u0.000                  0.000        0.301       i.035        G.i32       d.l1;        1.m         Z.A7
3            0.000       0.G00        0.03i       0. itH       i.04i       1.536        2.756      .54
4            6.625      17.219       13.011       6.Di.        A.01        3.023      3i.ii        55.;:6
5            0.00a        .000        0.00o0      0.000        0.00        0.116        i.37t       2:4i1
TOT fl            6.825       18.305      20.703       15.il       3.825       0.155 I     3.i't I.50.33
CATEGODI
I,           1.149       4.216        9.143       !.4-64       a.d88       5.132      15.523      iu.116
1.139       0.339       0.35i    .   1.51        0.146        0.ill       1.474       5.410
0.000       04.32       0.668        i.760        1.993       i.903       3.376       iO.it
4            7.032      17.219       12.011       8.645        4.26i        .U          3.7'  S il;
i            10.062      0.000        0.094       0.00;        0.006       0.816        1.375       c.3I
ADNOVE8N          1.721        1.9176      0.730       1.627        1.697       0.430        1.31i       9.49i
tOTAl            12.304       24.722      22.996      20.560       14.391      12.133       26.82      134.581
GBACif            1.00 I.O     100         0.300       1.900                                             5.500
I PW S
13.304      26.422      23.296       22.460      14.991       13.i33      26.88?     140.087
,T PPS' UGS
IN RP ULL 8     716.1309   16811.898   15706.083   221.715   iS733.010   13591.54S   38978.25i  i1i329.ai9
89



433502It            00P1w.
Us ML. 301          0240        11.01        04            14           30          11 2040                   1.0          000          0,0          00           0.0         330           0.1          4                      A1         A.0          040          0.40         I.0          0.03         0.03        340          0.00         04A          .0400                     033 L       0,00         011`
It0064at3O             3A41       001.%         0.1    611               0.00         0.t3        Q346          3.00W        0.03        04l           8.-03       0.0          80           0.031        3.0                    040         3            1.03         34m          342          3.03         0.03.0                    4 1.00212                            0.3000I000
2032       01.0        00.0        MO.2         0,0          02.00        00.04        Uiii         1.11o        00           30           0.32         3.20         040          0.0          .103                  09           0.03         0.03         0.03        0.30         0.03         0.03         0.1          0.0     0   0.0s.0                    I0           0.00          Al         a.0
00000I             2.00        0.000        Lo03        0.00         0.00         La.0      3 3.0           1.301        0.003        Lou0         30J0         Let0         Li   0.03     40         3.03                   L0OU         Lou0        0.02         jolO         0.00        0400         0.32         0.00         0,0000000 0.0 ug0311                               0.303L              0.3    300
mu                    0.3   0.00  L           401.00       U12.0        AS.0        00040       02.0         0003         0014         021m         022.11       020.00       02411        02.1  01      103                  027 U.10    0Mm4          00,1        040.20       040.31    -04.20          043.201      040.23       0.11040.10A              040.11      0U0.20        002.1       000.23       0l0.ls
003       De1         040       03240      0.034        0,0011       4,041.00    1,200.0      34JI 911.33  0.330        0,00.11    03,221.411   03.00,0       00,40,0     30.1044      00,3401    il.1003,0                103 -14040   00400*       U2.003,0    11.133       31,003.      00,31.02     30,01.0      UM.AX4      00,000.130    00.3,0320   03,0.3       03,01.3     033.2        0,1..32 ilt  32,003.3     a
44    ,02           3,           .040     0.0        03424       1031.1m03     00.4034     31n.014     000.00,1    030230        03i,00.0    11.24         00,030.0    0014030    00041,3         Uumu0,4               01.0.' 840.0152    2103,F32            0343240.11   0021402.031   00,4A 13.80400 .0340   00300.0       W111401,13  3*     3    01323.1031   1221,011.111  003.40.011  0014004      22.3L'
B2    4,2           3.103       03   .0     040            .03    10.08.3   02,13.0    032034           E600011.0    003*0401   000140         0302        14)4034.0           .     still.3 33    Wai4t                 mm,3400,028  03402,010    030,030.0    3831140A    332.2004    00,2,0034    0331403401   021,11011   00,0.03I   302,L40    03304    104,001141    3,03040    X.3004               03100I   302,
a0     . 000        0. 03       :040         04           1.3          00          8.0        ,030       1.0,          ,3, 0.2240 46  N " 111.  11" It m 11.1. 1, 8  040340  0,3.4  040440  0,03449    I0,414,1           0.344,4 I    3,00       QJUJ 140 ,04    ,4         04034        3400.0       340UI0      0.3540       0403.3       040040       3,3004       4,13.3     M400%         0,040431-    4.30         1
0.00                  3040      140130A02033.0    t      ,o 3.03     32,03.03    31,21.001     00,33.10    03,0040      .32,00.0 3     ,0UL.0   30,011.0.01     3 JJ4 J     1 1,0,2     030.3041               30,034cm3413.0   300202,3    030203.0    303203.LU033203.0    000I0.03                   30240.00      0O40008                                US.A.LO303111.3 01203 0.40 0.01.1011  002AL.3    30
.0        0.011        0,00         0*11       01.0          0.11         .0.1         0,0          30          3.11        O.A          3J1A          3.0         140          m.m         SLID                   M.m           0,3         0,11         04             ,10.0) 00 [L            0.ax       I"0            3.11        8.11         3.11         0,L*         343r        3.03         3.2
la3136             0440         00.0          A0         00.03         2,0         01.401       0hn3        I30           11.4         1440        011             n          IA .1                      UI2   04  24        31.20        L3           10.4        00.02        00.02        00.43        03.0         00.4          140        01            1.48        10,m         03.0          Lot4        0.411
aW                 0440     02,.0       08.34        0408.0          an40       0.4034     02.114       034011       33Mm1        0041.3       0003u0    0038.u             an112    0302.0       11.2                   00a0n           OA..0     03 '3.0        13.0      3     ,4110.03* 02.24      00.3        04030       00,00.03    00,01.        034002       03*.0           I11140.3 0,000         3,100304
111.3110            0IW40    0L.03100040040    3401301.32    003,30                3*040.1    0.0.34003,22               00340.11     00.03,0    2140340   032,11.0          4.14110      420002234                            ,4         3,811.03   ,34,10.       3,231        3000         340141t   320.40L         33402.4    323,02,0     3,203.0       30,431   0334.0     30.1?   3403.0                  "A2t
23103                 0.02W   13.0011      14.03    0o41110,000      HA4.R.      01,3,0     4404004        00340    030A414         033.3,0      3,3.41U   011,XI4         3,40.3.11   10.122,01              00203.3     041,302103    3,3211       33 4LM    0 0,3203         313.34     3.00041     3,3A0     35JI3,    3,3.11               I I  I54.   3,AN1010    03,01.1      3300243    3402,2         3.
00        0.03        1.03   311 ,103           041J l   91.004   0334004        34310141    11.0.16 340       1143 0     1114,.00    3002.00     340111 40    22411,041   200,0034     3,34 0                  1,4         .130        31332        130.2        21424         32330      333,3        2 403U I" OU13 OU1  LL  LLU 4LLA OUU 42,110,4    3,UL304  3,3,80    3,21.00J   10300.3    032,33,0    21,1,0 
A.0                20.         LOD          3.4          PA           Lid         34J08   XF 008   UI4I3                8,3U    3IA.403           0.03A8       3,043U    I   ,003        3,0 3       0,40A              nil""       03400    SI11.13m                         33.04.1     1.JU4          8.31041    3.11404   3111.4304II 3 1 14 3.3114                  0,01014      0,33A0      0.410        0,00         3,
'3                  08           a3         0us          411          In3        [ail         0,31         0,003        Lo0*         4,3         24in         3,3I         35           t,3          I'm3                   03           Lin3        3,011        I'm          2,000        2.3          1.3102,31                2,31         1.000       2,3          0400         I'm5         tin          0.3t        2,
-ML '0                  0230303-03
imm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g



1452711042  21         207         2~~~~~~n    Ah          II7         #44         275         of7         Su1         35          227         20          AI          is?         23                    7I2         1I0         RO          tic         RIB         III         IA          77          77          7to         7*          no*         714         772         24
Sy 7                    710         77          7a         212         272         lit         23l         ML          ni          ui           sos         a           no          a           aU 114                n            5          009         Ila         ILI        114         11           HI0         ;t          22          us          RI         22          228         214
7222275R               717         a           In   13   In   77                   77         usi         722         74          0)           70         222          14          101         73                    in         a1          in1          US         11          30           A4         21          a           ag                 a                12           a           3a
1401            0,41.1    IWL           J442.73.7   91.s3.     m,.a.   2427.511.1    MINA24    2RtI24    71.142.10.   1:07.2.14   ln,u.11a    mo3n1A    m01.no.            3.227.2     If4.031               21121111    763.14110    114,7.4111   4.A14.7*   12114.14,  14414044 72. 111           372,21om  SM*20    722.23.2    142.222*I 3210 723*    30.1.2                       - "A.
7222  872    21,772.J0    41437.10    27,214.47    10,20.3    0,272.77   122.3.22    114.014*    114.014*    272.210*   121,11110   121.714,21    0,214.14    10.01,14   122?1.4*  720,,12.1   114,214.14   70,14044    172,20144   17141,.22   h22J141.221u.f.c  mae    uA.m*    722.3*    141am  3.222*12041 3* mL tt   3fl4
7221        5*          7.22~~~~~U  'PAms4e  7.76,111.8  2.177.72.22 2.2IR,211.60 2,5.1514.12  2.116,21.10 M1202424 .11411.710.A2 31721244L I.1141415.S  2,,2023.A   2,,420.22   3.5144715.        R.!.1.0170741 .72711274744770..072  17    .444   ..nst2.1.    42..0233                                                                .I.R*207.3212222270 
7224                2,4         74A         7.72        1.2I72   1.71112.207.711.1 7 o13,1 .23 ,3  .7*4        .7.147231              ,4.3.110  1.142,277.145*2.2.14.72m.D  10iim llli"   1,10.7W.0  1441,722.*  1.7.7 .m0lll.22IS InuL,20,411   laso .co  L.2.3.101  1.272M.3*,147.322    4771A  2,2INI3 7*3.8   2.3mmMO 272 14.22    21M4.1  2.272.3*242.3   1
an1                  2*0        110         2.4           2  2.2772.7  2.2,37.0.1  2.77E,I3.U  0,34.014.2  2,472,6L2.  140,3.22a  RU.3l2RIU   2,1#24LN  1.17414*1,111447.7   L2,001211.7                   4,OR. 0 47.210.14  2,71.321.010 2.212.2*210 1 14.2732   4,RR,22210-4  2,720,272.5  211.77,2,241.4127Mina   4,22,24.1  ,127.3a .10.711141.   2.72..10  2.7222., 2.71.*A
142                  244        2.10        2.14        co0         2.14        2.02    MI24.10    2       0.414*   6A41   710,2*    3.472210    711,1111.10   7120.11.40  114.71t.00   72,20.101            1103.20*    13110,111    17212141t    7902744   20227.10   2024724      721.1231.1    714A      111.010* 7,32  70.23.0   710.2311.0 .10 2322 3 2.321.044 IAL 21.     3* 23.
0.3.37    110,777.73  2.147,2.145.   2,022.022 ,012.11,101a2  2471.142.24 14.713.10210 2.720.I24.A I7.37.0 16.111,242.lU    72.733*2 7,214 22*210 ,UD121,1.0.  7744.61.1072  -111M.7l,2.4 7.04o          1270. 3.13I44.7110 72ILM7,23.1422,114     11107.23.2*2)40240A2*MI2. AIS2.      313*12.34111001,2330       1.3.140    72402.71,1 711.   72.0122,23,uIAA 2.33*,12.1 0L  AR
AL NM2371
23                  344         344   27S1,144   7,I74.620.Rl 12,13.1rf."  7,3.72141.3  .2L.0    14a    7.ALH2.1   17M2,07.  7.2.23.7   7.2ni.71 114 ,2,14.12  24L42,714 111 2.25.7214                     11.2121021  7.311.14  2..2141.1451  lX.202.72 .1117.2 1.242  7,2.7 U14*.735.2145, 7117714.14  7432204  71171    1.1423.0M  1I2Ll.34   7.2.R04   7,1112.1944I 1.3212  2
2142                24A         7.0         2*H   3.1442       2.3    .12   2.13.1003   74L,211      3,714     MINA11243.   3,221.71    21.13.67   22112 301               2442.22I MA   7723.22.            142.31.61   23,311.0  14,04           ,4         1..2 72.4               12.2 37*21                          2.3.22 L"  IIL  tin  OL  V.8U RLU  al     3,22.2   3.3,2   21.2342    2.2041    2.302
au                  2.1         240         2.0         6.10   ,5.IJM14 2.702.3.47  2X.717.72,1 221.31.1341 31f.7317.71 2,2.57.150  2.722.3141  2,6420.217.11740.217.     12 740.211224  1.211311,0        7,214,22044  240*42.9L   2,212.22.11 7,20,22 4317,312114   2,22,704  23.61*2   2.44.27040  1.Z42412A 60LUNA  7422,70*74221611122  2, INA204   5,L                27*.MA 2Lai"1.10
722                 2.14        7.2         244         944         7.2         7.22    54,2214    274.721   12.2111.1    24,312    0111,2072    67311116       2742.1   1 .27.1.14    31,4*                  104414      21.104      1.4413.4                415*21.14    77,3*                  27,IT23* 17,3* 'A A I  6,1.1  JI   27441*    UN,A   0,3.5   77.*         2.224      P7.-A
72.1112    111.415444  I,7223N.27  I,21.0.2117  2,62.23.73  2,7014.32   2.171.421.7  2,1.2773.11  .36.2.72  2.13,72241 2472477.11 2.277.3       LSMU.11 2722.442672.32.   2411273.141      3,34424    2.7442427211    47..167.R.1   ,74212722                                   427.1113    flIIL   A M  02 31I A     U M 1L U  24722724  4472472,  6.274724   5.32.22.  2.42222.1  imgg -0  2.27.3724 .
Lin0                7.5    7211,113    0.242*.    42,3411.14   12.73        42.2711     24,727.22    0I..14     22,.771   21,227.0    11l224    Q14.774         14.'3          112*    72.714                 4S611274    U1472.      65*14       114114      22414       7102.614    214115     2.14144      54112A 72,14  *.222.5   144,21211   12.21                   1414        71222.
23                  7.22        2.A    0.1122t   211314    2.11234      14 2372.43   13.222441 2,113.14A IN         I 2. 2 44 223..11  2.33  .2,1.42  7,23472.221 2.M2.13.411 2,.3.142J42   ,23,27.41      7.,177.471 742.71,211   2,142424441 2*2*L42  2.771104   7,12*441 7*2..11141  'R 7..1IM2757.34   7.31.31.0  2.12.227.42   42 0  1,0.347                        .13,3.11141 73I. 3 .0 7
am2                  2*         2.1         2.2         6*0  l.11124.231 2,774,2344.23 .211.0442*2 .1,2.11 144.10 2.43.12   2,3,3oili.11  2110.UJ3* AII 7.12.447. I.347231071.77                           0m.37.2.2 2l lt.1.771  2.57.27.14  1,37,774-2*2,3717212111  2x,1422721f .30*,0,7 w.nuz u'lx sar j  a,22,tf47kW U 242,2*23.*.721 .271244  121.3771*2A ..710    2,
73                  7.10        2.10        2.22        OA          7.10   7314.3*1.     722I034   3.10.7     24542,     3.12.42        3.24   2,3,3.422,23II.244I 7.33*2442,2.3.22                        7,1140,7.14 2,727,2.14  2.3,34M 141722,0720. 2    11 2.1013.127*2,3,2.22  2.4141420*2.3WIL44  t.3.3.211 2.M.23*  79.727227   2,0.3*  U83,2                              1.3,23*  W,
7                   2.22        7.0   2.0   Q           540         544         4       5.7224A     MI.3*       7410.1   1 124.142*    4214.132    0,21.3       147.)       14011    5342444WWI               22,.3.1     a","0    6126.3.1    10.52.         "A"10       14.34       22.3.       OA"24       27.3     14,22.     14*2.4          22."3.      81412.44    5.IL2       0.N3.7
ft.14.21124    0. H   112110 72.34  1.44.12101 2,217172,1  1.41442241 12.22114  1.A42414.L7  2.52.3.024.3.3.1    4,472*72   24423..41SIM 5,3 13*4.          1*4*  L.23A2.s                              11.8        IM           ,0141.01 ..2    ,,370147*,I27342  2,.2220.3*2,214.,141 3.21  242*7*2422*2.222,147.72A 2,4 4.1 0.221.11 2.35.3*24122-I*3a 3,344   2;
113               1.347 1..1    *,3               417,45,        1414722, .22 1,1,3 t.27.    7.722.777*2.3.3.27,3,22.4,12.1 .0  64,22410,2  243,121.22  2243.222.702.1.422*,j4,3                             7,710.32   1,12225.2    2 ..724   *,3*1 .7146 .2ILI"   2.2.3*.222,2 .141 7,2.3    7                   1.2.34     742*44.72244.71,1 2.342S 242414.22  5I.23,               7.2.24 22
Lu gGL2-,3442*4                                                        39 LS4111T                 ,111L?   4,1-             A " AL        ASIL    S AA                     A.5US41111t12,11M11131                                1M I   11AI               iii       12,1A14." 11633                                 JI I        l maf "                 J.Api'" tn " 1
3123                 14l         73         10*       7.21        2*2         1.72        4.2         Ilia2       I.2         2.3         2*          2.43        23          4.671)      4,21                   2,2         6,3o        5*2          3,3        tam2        3414        2,33       6,4     .3h    8        5.31        6,3t         31.4       2,311       4,3n         L*
2031               640         244         2.3        7,231        2.2        2           44117       I.4m        4428        fall         2.31        2.42        7.22        4,I27      5.2                    243         5.23        5444        7.2         74          3.22        3.3         6444       1Om                      IN35.       SAO         13i         2444        IAN
91



