Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2549-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN, DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
May 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    Rupiah (Rp)
$1.00           =    Rp 625
Rp 100           =    $0.160
Rp 1 million          $1,600
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Adat          -  Body of traditional law
ARD           -  Agency for Research and Development
ATT           -  Agricultural technical team within the Ministry of Agriculture
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - Peoples' Bank of Indonesia
DGA           -  Directorate-General of Agrarian Affairs
DGC           -  Directorate-General of Cooperatives
DGE           -  Directorate-General of Estates
DGFCA         -  Directorate-General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGH           -  Directorate-General of Highways
DGLS          -  Directorate-General of Livestock Services
DGT           -  Directorate-General of Transmigration
DIP           -  Daftar Isian Projek - Project implementation budget
GOI           -  The Government of Indonesia
INPRES        -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a rural
improvements program
IPEDA         -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - land tax
JMT           -  Office of the Junior Minister for Transmigration
Marga         -  A community grouping under traditional (Adat) law
MOA           -  Ministry of Agriculture
NES           -  Nucleus estate and smallholder projects
ODM           -  Overseas Development Ministry of the United Kingdom Government
Repelita I    -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II   -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
Repelita III  -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
Loan, Credits and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Indonesia
Amount:                $90 million (Bank), $67 million (IDA) and approximately/i
$5.5 million (EEC Credit)
Terms:                 Bank loan for 20 years including 5 years of grace with
interest at 7.9% p.a. IDA Credit on standard IDA
terms. EEC Credit on standard EEC Special Action
Credit terms.
Project Description:  The proposed project would launch a land development
program along the Trans-Sumatera highway by resettling
about 30,000 families from impoverished areas of Java
and Bali, as well as from Sumatera, on four sites in
the province of Jambi in Sumatera. It would also
upgrade the conditions of 4,000 transmigrant families
who were recently settled in the same area. The
project would provide physical infrastructure, land
clearing, agricultural inputs and services, community
facilities and technical assistance to help the
Government in implementing the project and developing
the transmigration program.
The project would create 30,000 new farms, open up
upland food crop production on 36,000 ha and increase
crop production on another 4,800 ha, directly benefit-
ting some 34,000 farm families or 170,000 people. At
full project development, per capita farm income is
estimated at $125 compared with incomes of potential
transmigrants and existing settlers of about $35.
Risks:                 The major risks are environmental and organizational.
Environmental risks will be minimized through appropriate
land clearing techniques, crop rotation and soil conserva-
tion practices, the supply of farm inputs and improved
extension services. Institutional risks will be minimized
through a new organizational framework for coordination
among the implementing agencies. Although coordination
difficulties are likely to persist, when weighed
against GOI's ambitious transmigration program and the
need to introduce in the field the new organization
framework, the organization risks associated with this
project are acceptable.
/1 The EEC Credit is calculated in a basket of currencies. The dollar
equivalent is subject to fluctuation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local Foreign Total
($ million)
Site preparation               15.7      40.9    56.6
Site development and
settler relocation           27.5      20.7    48.2
Agricultural support
services                     12.5      21.6    34.1
Investigations and designs    4.6         5.4    10.0
Base cost                 60.3      88.6   148.9
Physical contingencies          8.6      14.3    22.9
Expected price increases       29.0      41.2    70.2
Total                     97.9    144.1   242.0
Financing Plan:
(net of taxes)
Foreign   Local  Total
…---- ($ million) ----
Bank/IDA                            144.1    12.9   157.0
EEC Special Action Account            4.7      0.8     5.5
Government                             -      79.5    79.5
Total                         148.8    93.2   242.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
…---------------- $ million ------------
Bank FY       1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Bank/IDA
Annual         1.0   24.0   27.0   35.0   28.0   37.0    5.0
Cumulative    1.0   25.0   52.0   87.0  115.0  152.0  157.0
EEC
Annual         0.7    4.8      -       -       -      -       -
Cumulative    0.7    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Rate of Return:   12%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 2349a-IND dated May 14, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMIENT AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMIENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN, DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND EEC
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR A
TRANSMIIGRATION II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan, development credit and EEC Special Action Credit to the Republic of
Indonesia for the equivalent of $90 million, $67 million and about $5.5
million, respectively. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
five years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum; the development credit
would be on standard IDA terms. The credit from the EEC Special Action
Account would be administered by the Association in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Association and
the European Economic Community.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia:  Growth
Patterns, Social Progress and Development Prospects," of February 20, 1979
(No. 2093-IND) was circulated to the Executive Directors on February 26,
1979. The report's main findings are that:
(a) aided by a massive improvement in the country's resource position
during the early 1970s and by innovative policies, considerable
progress has been made towards raising the level of material
well-being for the bulk of the Indonesian population, including
the lowest income groups;
(b) due to a number of new, mostly exogenous circumstances, including
an expected slowdown in the growth of oil production, Indonesia is
now facing a rapidly tightening overall resource position which
will make it more difficult to maintain high levels of income and
employment growth, while at the same time preserving monetary
stability and external balance;
(c) the recent (November 15, 1978) devaluation of the Rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 to the US dollar, while strongly supportive of
the structural changes required to reduce economic dependence on
oil and to improve long-term development prospects, should not be
regarded as a substitute for efforts needed to remove physical and
administrative bottlenecks and to develop effective support services;
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second Agri-
cultural Training Project (No. P-2506-IND), circulated under cover of
R79-75, dated April 13, 1979, and approved by the Executive Directors on
April 24, 1979.



- 2 -
(d)  although the Government (becatise of the structure of its revenues
and expenditures) is a prime beneficiary of devaluation-induced
income shifts from import users to net exporters, significant
additional public sector resource mobilization efforts will be
needed to prevent a sharp decline in the share of Government
savings in GNP beyond 1979/80; and
(e)  while the next five to ten years may be difficult because of the
structural changes needed to adjust to a post-oil boom era, Indonesia's
long-term development prospects have been significantly enhanced by
the Government's successful population policies which have already
contributed to a substantial (approximately 207) reduction of
fertility in Java and Bali during the past decade.  These crucially
important demographic developments will, in due course, particularly
after the mid-1980s, be reflected in reduced and declining rates of
growth of the labor force. Declining labor force growth rates and
the prospects of declining income elasticities of demand for food
justify the hope and expectation that with sound policies, Indonesia
can and will eventually - possibly within the next two decades -
overcome the severe poverty and food security problems that still
plague the country today. The solution of these fundamental problems
through the pursuit of a pervasive employment-oriented development
strategy would set the economy firmly on a long-term growth path
towards much higher levels of social and economic development
involving all Indonesians.  One of the key components of such a
strategy would be to aim at a high rate of labor-intensive manufac-
turing development.
Social Developments Since 1970
3.        Analysis of data from the National Household Surveys for 1970 and
1976 suggests that while overall income disparities have almost certainly
widened, the rapid overall growth of the economy /1 has contributed to a
considerable improvement in consumption of all income grouDs, including the
very poor. The data further suggest that increases in per capita consumption
were higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in urban areas than
in rural areas. Notwithstanding this, many Indonesians remain extremely poor:
in 1976 when average per capita income was about $280,/2 over 50 million
Indonesians (387 of the population) spent less than ~99 (1976 prices and
exchange rate).
4.        Analysis of data from National Labor Force Surveys shows a remarkably
high rate of employment growth (over 4% p.a.) between September 1971 and October
1976. But during this period, the labor force also grew at a very high rate
and the data suggest that there was a slight increase in the rate of open
/   GDP grew at 8.0% p.a.  As a result of favorable terms of trade developments
during most of the period, GDY grew even faster - about 9.5% p.a.
/2 World Bank Atlas. (Preliminary estimate for 1977: $300.)



unemployment. Since the labor force grew much faster than population in the
relevant age groups, a sharp increase in labor force participation rates, from
50% in September 1971 to 55% in October 1976, was observed. Thus, a substantial
part of the increased per capita consumption levels is believed to have been
related to increased labor force Darticipation and declining dependency ratios.
5.        The share of agricultural employment between 1971 and 1q76 declined
from 667 to 62%, implying rapid growth of nonagricultural employment - over
7% p.a. or 54% of the total increase in employment. Within the nonagricul-
tural sectors, the increase in employment occurred largely in proliferating
small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors where labor
productivity is thought to be extremely low. This is indicated, inter alia,
by the stagnation of real minimum wage levels which are among the lowest in
the world. Employment growth in medium- and large-scale enterprises, which
absorbed the bulk of industrial investment, was very modest. The broad
picture of rapid employment growth since 1970, though encouraging in many
respects, thus reveals that a relatively large Part of the incremental
employment has been of poor quality in residual types of activities.
6.        Mtuch progress has been made in recent years with the provision of
education services. Enrollment rates increased at all levels of education.
For example, primary school enrollment (excluding over-age students) is
expected to reach 85% in 1979 for the 7-12 age group, compared to 60% in
1974; dropout rates - while still high - declined, and universal primarv
education appears to be in sight. A promising nonformal education program
has been introduced to increase the basic employable skills of those who
never attended school (presently estimated at 23 million people) and others
who left school without completing primary education (a further 22 million).
Indonesia's adult literacy rate increased to 62% in 1974 which is much higher
than in India (36%), Pakistan (21%), or Bangladesh (237), but lower than in
Thailand (82%) or the Philippines (87%). Within Indonesia, large differences in
levels of educational attainment between urban and rural areas still exist,
but differences between Java and other parts of the country are relativelv
small.
7.        In the field of health care services, there has been a tremendous
expansion of physical infrastructure including medical training facilities.
Almost 3,000 rural health centers, designed to become the principal vehicles
for the delivery of basic health services, were constructed between 1969 and
1977. But much of the new physical infrastructure has so far remained
underutilized due to personnel shortage and a range of other factors,
including popular preference for traditional health care services in several
areas.
8.        Inadequate sewerage and sanitation facilities are still major health
hazards, especially in crowded urban areas. Even if the various targets for
rural and urban water supply for the Second Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita II), which ended in March 1979, were fully met, over 100 million
Indonesians will still remain without easy access to safe water in 1979.
Similarly, housing conditions are generally very unsatisfactory, especially
in crowded urban areas.   Although simple and inexpensive improvements in
water supply, drainage, footpaths and community facilities, executed through



- 4 -
YamDung Improvement Projects, including those supported bY the Bank Group,
have contributed to better living conditions in several overcrowded urban
areas, specific socio-economic support programs to improve the living con-
ditions of the urban poor are needed.
The Devaluation of November 15, 1978
q.        The recent devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US
dollar was designed to encourage labor-intensive import substitution and
nonoil export growth by reversing some of the adverse relative price shifts in
the economy that had occurred earlier this decade.  The opportune timing of
this drastic and unique policy action is believed to be a strong factor in
enhancing the probability of its success.  The strongest immediate effects of
the devalulation, however, will be a dramatic increase in budgetary revenues in
local currencv terms. Government expenditures will, of course, also increase
as a result of the devaluation buit the net budgetary Position in terms of
rupiahs should improve strongly. While the recent devaluation will generally
tend to facilitate export promotion efforts, great emphasis needs to be placed
on the importance of developing effective supoort services and of reducing
administrative obstacles and other unnecessary cost-increasing factors.
10.       A number of supportive measures to prevent an upturn in domestic
inflation eroding the potential benefits of this devaluation have already been
taken. Such measures include the lowering of import tariffs by 507 on a
wide range of intermediate inputs, stringent temporary price controls, and a
temporary increase in budgetary subsidies to isolate initially key consumption
items, such as rice, from the effects of the devaluiation. Aside from the
budget's influence on the prices via subsidies, the degree of monetary control
exercised will also be an important factor in minimizing devaluation-induced
inflation. There is likelv to he conflict, however, between the need to
contain devaluation-induced monetary expansion and the need for additional
credit to promote new private investment in line with the structural objectives
of the devaluation. Nonetheless, a sizeable budget surplus in fiscal 1979/80
almost certainly will be needed to assist in neutralizing the effect of a sudden
sharp increase in the rate of monetary expansion following the devaluation.
11.       Prior to the November exchange rate adjustment, balance of payments
projections based on current trends and expectations suggested the probability
that, without special export promotion efforts, a shortage of foreign exchange
would become a binding constraint on development efforts within the next few
years. Although it is too early to make more than a very preliminary and
speculative assessment of the effect of the devaluation on imports and exports,
there is now less ground for the fear that the balance of pavments will become
a development constraint. No dramatic changes, however, are foreseen in the
immediate future- the short-term export resoonse, in particular, is likely to
be constrained by supply rigidities. TUltimately, changes in the size and
structure of imports and exnorts will be strongly influenced bv the effect that
the devaluation will have on the overall growth performance of the economv.



- 5-
Food Supply and Demand Prospects
12.       In spite of impressive increases in rice production, Indonesia's
food self-sufficiency has declined continually over the past decade. In par-
ticular, there has been a growing import-dependence on rice, sugar, wheat,
and recently coconut oil, which is predicted to continue (paras. 28-29). To
meet this problem, an overall food production and consumption strategy is
vital. The Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III) has placed new
emphasis on the need to increase production of secondary crops such as maize,
cassava, soyabeans, and groundnuts, particularly in order to decrease Indonesia's
import-dependency on rice. Yields of secondary crops in other countries
indicates that they hold significant potential for increasing Indonesia's food
self-sufficiency and improving the food security of low-income families in
Indonesia's unirrigated areas (para. 30).
Overall Growth and Employment Prospects
13.       Medium-term prospects, as determined by developments already in
motion and by exogenous factors such as the expected temporary stagnation
in oil production, suggest that it will be difficult to achieve an overall GNP
growth rate of more than 6-6.5% during the next 3-5 years. This is consider-
ably less than the average growth performance of the economy during the
past decade. But if the broad pattern of relationships between output growth,
employment growth, and personal consumption growth observed for the period
1970-76 does not drastically change, a GNP growth rate of 6-6.5% could still
be consistent with an overall employment growth target rate of around 3% p.a.
The Government has already announced a GNP growth target of 6.5% p.a. for the
Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita III), which started in April 1979.
14.       As the economy is entering a difficult period of adjustment to post-
oil boom conditions involving structural changes in the pattern of production
and the sources of savings, more reliance will have to be placed on agricul-
ture and industry and on the mobilization of Indonesia's most abundant and
inexhaustible resource: people. The devaluation may be expected to facilitate
the structural changes that are needed. With improved incentives for an employ-
ment-oriented strategy and adequate Government investment and institutional
support services for agriculture and small industries, it should in due course
be possible to raise the overall growth rate of the economy to at least 7% or 8%,
which would be a major help in accelerating the further elimination of poverty.
External Aid and Creditworthiness
15.       The heavy foreign borrowing in 1974, 1975 and the early part of
1976, together with a hardening of average terms during those years, has
raised the level of debt service payments which reached about $1.5 billion in
1978, or about 18% of projected export earnings. The debt service ratio /1
was 16% in 1976 and 17% in 1977; the ratio is expected to remain below 20% in
1979 and 1980. This is the encouraging result of restraint with regard to
new borrowing in 1976 and 1977 and the recent replacement on more favorable
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
terms of S575 million remaining payments on cash loans (originally totalling
Sl billion) which had been obtained in 1975 from a number of private banks in
the wake of the Pertamina crisis. Total new loan commitments declined from a
peak of $3.4 billion in 1975 to 12.3 billion in 1978. Most of the decline
was achieved through a reduction in commercial borrowing. This means that
average loan terms have recently begun to soften again, which will be reflected
in future debt service payments.
16.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) continues to be
the principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral)
commitments in 1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about S1.4 billion: the
IGGI (including the World Bank Group and Asian Development Rank) accounted
for over 907 of this amount. The Bank's most recent economic report on
Indonesia recommends that total ODA to Indonesia should reach at least
S1.93 billion in 1979/80, including both loans and grants, of which at least
707 should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of
the IGGI in April 1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1Q79/80 made
by bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the
meeting therefore concluded that the Bank's recommendations would he approxi-
mately met.
17.       The Bank's overall assessment of Indonesia's external accounts
indicates that the country will be able to finance essential imports of
consumer, intermediate and capital goods and to meet its debt service obliga-
tions. The debt service ratio is expected to remain below 20%. Although the
November 15 Rupiah devaluation will provide a one-time revenue windfall, the
Government will need to raise substantial additional non-oil revenues over the
coming years if the relatively higb rate of domestic investment already reached
is to be maintained. The Government has been quite cautious in increasing
current expenditures and there does not appear to be much scope for reducing
them further; expenditures should, in fact, rise in step with the growth in
GNP and inflation, to permit reasonable growth in Government salaries as well
as materials expenditures, a significant part of which is development-related.
In view of the pressure on public sector resources and since Indonesia's
total external financing requirements are in excess of the foreign exchange
components of the many projects planned for financing from external sources,
a limited measure of local cost financing is considered justified.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
18.      As of March 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 40 IDA credits
totalling $680.8 million /2, and 37 Bank loans amounting to $1,903.0 million.
IFC investments have totalled $61.3 million.  The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of
1977 was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of
1978, these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 12% and 5%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC Investments as of March 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
19.      To date, the Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the Indonesian economy, although there has been particular stress
on agriculture, which accounts for over one third of all lending. Most of
the loans for agriculture have been for rehabilitation and expansion of
productive capacity, both for food and tree crop development. Several
national programs to provide credit inputs and advice to farmers and to
promote agricultural research have also been financed by the Bank Group.
More recently, an effort to aid the Government's transmigration program
has been initiated. In the industrial sector, while the major thrust has
been on expanding fertilizer production on the basis of Indonesia's gas
resources and on establishment and improvement of development finance institu-
tions, a credit has also been extended to finance a small enterprise develop-
ment project. The main emphasis in education has been on upgrading the
quality of education, improving primary and secondary education and manpower
training as well as on expanding non-formal education. In the social sector,
the Bank Group has financed projects for urban development (through neighbor-
hood improvement programs), urban water supply, family planning, and nutrition.
A major portion of Bank Group financing has been used to rehabilitate and
expand Indonesia's inadequate infrastructure, particularly in the power and
transportation sectors. Credits have also been extended to finance a tele-
communications project and a tourism project. Finally, the Bank Group has
assisted the Government's efforts to prepare and formulate its development
programs and projects through five technical assistance credits and a loan
for a natural resource survey and mapping project.
20.      The discussion in Part I of this report underscores the need for a
development program which will provide increasingly productive work oppor-
tunities and incomes for Indonesia's presently underemployed and growing labor
force and increase agricultural production, particularly of food crops.
One of the major objectives of the Third Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita
III) is to increase employment through programs directed towards improving the
incomes of the poor and their living standards.
/1 Except for para. 22, substantially unchanged from the President's Report
on the Second Agriculural Training Development Project (No. P-2506-IND),
circulated under cover of R79-75, dated April 12, 1979, and approved by
the Executive Directors on April 24, 1979.
/2 Includes amounts ($1.1 million) cancelled.



- 8 -
While several of these programs are likely to be suitable for Bank Group
financing, it will be some time before they are ready for implementation.
However, as part of this new focus, a small enterprise development project,
designed to increase non-agricultural employment in rural areas and small
towns, has already been approved by the Executive Directors, and an integrated
rural development project should be ready for presentation to the Executive
Directors in a few months. With respect to agriculture development, projects
are being prepared further to improve and expand research and extension
services, rehabilitate and expand irrigation systems, assist in watershed
management and village development, and develop presently underutilized land
in areas outside Java for transmigrants and other smallholders. The proposed
project is another step in implementing these programs. In addition to the
family planning program, which continues to have high priority, other areas of
particular importance for Bank Group assistance will be the improvement of
urban services through construction of urban water supply systems and further
expansion of neighborhood improvement programs, support for industrial develop-
ment and the improvement and expansion of higher education, particularly of
engineers, accountants and agriculture specialists, as well as primary and
nonformal education. Finally, Bank Group financing continues to be important
for the Government's program of infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion,
particularly in transport and power, which will continue to require very large
investments for many years before these facilities are adequate to support
Indonesia's development. Compared to past lending activities, many of these
projects and programs reflect the shift of emphasis in the Government's
development objectives from rehabilitation and expansion to a better balanced
and more equitable and employment-oriented economic growth strategy.
21.      Bank Group lending to Indonesia started in 1968, and between 1968
and 1974 all Bank Group lending to Indonesia was on IDA terms. Following the
rapid increase in Indonesia's oil income which enabled Indonesia to borrow on
less concessional terms, it was decided that all lending to Indonesia after
June 30, 1974, would be on Bank terms. Since 1974, the Government has
saved and invested almost all of the increase in its oil revenues and greatly
expanded its development expenditures which reached about $6 billion in
1977/78. For reasons discussed in Part I above, and notwithstanding the
November 1978 devaluation, both the budgetary and balance of payments situa-
tions may be difficult in the years ahead. Thus, while Indonesia has always
qualified for assistance on concessional terms on grounds of its low per
capita income and the quality of its economic management, such terms are now
also necessary to enable it to maintain a high level of investment without
impairing its ability to service its external debt. Accordingly, starting in
FY78, a portion of Bank Group lending to Indonesia has again been provided on
IDA terms.
22.       Although overall project implementation performance in Indonesia
is now about the average for the Bank, the Bank and the Government have
become concerned in recent months about the level of disbursements which in
the last year or so has shown a declining trend. Many of the problems seem
to be attributable to cumbersome procedures for procurement and payment of
contracts, including issuance of letters of credit. In other cases, project
specific problems and unfamiliarity of some project executing agencies



- 9 -
with procedures also cause difficulties. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank in an attempt to address these problems. In
the last year, two Bank missions were sent to Indonesia to analyze and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures; the
Government is now reviewing their reports. The Government and the Bank are
also holding regular joint review meetings in order to identify project
specific as well as more general problems and to work out corrective measures.
The first of these meetings was held in early March this year in Jakarta on a
few selected projects and a second meeting is scheduled for June. During the
IGGI meeting in April 1979 the Government announced several ameliorative
measures designed to streamline the more complex budgetary and financial
procedures which seem to affect implementation of almost all projects.
Although, as a result of these initiatives an improvement in implementation
performance is now anticipated, constant follow-up in this area will be
necessary in the coming months.
23.       The proposed loan would be the ninth lending operation presented
to the Executive Directors this fiscal year and would bring total lending to
Indonesia this year to $619 million. Projects for nucleus estate and small-
holder development and for rural development are expected to be ready for
presentation within the next few months.
PART III - RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSMIGRATION
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
24.       Objectives.  The major national objectives in the agricultural and
rural sector in Indonesia are to: (a) create productive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor, (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace
with rising demand, (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of small-
holder tree crops, and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's
land, water and other natural resources.
25.       Role and Performance.  Although agriculture's contribution to GDP
and exports has declined during the past 15 years (from 55% to 33% and from
55% to 23%, respectively), the rural sector remains of overwhelming importance
to the vast majority of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes
and food production. Some 80% of the country's 133.5 million people live
in rural areas, and agriculture employs about two-thirds of the total labor
force. Over the period 1972-1977, the growth rate of agricultural production
has been uneven, averaging 3.7% p.a. while total GDP grew at about 7% p.a.
26.       Development Problems and Potentials.  In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fully utilized, and in some areas agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976, about 82 million people lived in
Java, which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of Indonesia's land area.
About one-third of Java's rural population is landless, and a large propor-
tion of the remainder cannot support themselves on incomes from their own
farms. Outside Java there are large areas of unused cultivable land, less
fertile than those in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited.



- 10 -
Development Strategies
27.       Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment at
least keeps pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufacturing and
services have been unable to absorb fully the incremental labor force.
Future employment strategy will include labor-intensive export industries and
small-scale rural enterprises, producing for the domestic market. There may
also be potential for more productive agricultural employment through increased
cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and livestock, including
fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
28.       Food Crops.  Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the
past decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968 and 1977, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food calorie
production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respectively./1
These growth rates reflect a growing import dependence on rice, sugar, wheat
and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance of maize,
cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of declining
growth rate in rice production due to a combination of poor weather and
pest problems, 1978 has shown a large increase in output (over 10%), but
import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977/78, were still
about 6% of total domestic consumption.
29.       Comparison of plausible food supply and demand scenarios suggests
the likelihood of increasing import requirements of basic foods and especially
of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil and possibly maize. There is an urgent
need for a comprehensive food production and consumption strategy. In the
case of rice, with the substantial completion of irrigation rehabilitation,
the recent shift in emphasis towards extension of irrigated areas and swamp
drainage projects will probably somewhat reduce rice production growth
rates, at least through 1985. However, the potential for increasing fertil-
izer and insecticide consumption and for improving the local performance of
the most recent IRRI varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of
rice production of around 3.5% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The
recent devaluation has provided significant additional room for further rice
producer price increases aimed at stimulating supply.
30.       While slower growth in rice productivity is anticipated, a com-
parison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries suggests that
these crops offer considerable potential for raising Indonesia's domestic
food self-sufficiency. With proper marketing and other support services, the
rate of growth of secondary crop production could probably be raised from
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.6%.



- 11 -
1.7% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food production and con-
sumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would assist low-income
farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks associated with
excessive rice import-dependency.
31.       Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder treecrops outside Java as part of its transmigration and
national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to improve
production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new land for
settlement.  One of the Government s main approaches has been to use public
estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local landless
families and transmigrants. This approach is appropriate in view of
Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical capabilities.
32.       The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation and marketing improvements. With
the more complex organizational requirements of future programs, implementa-
tion capacity is likely to become the limiting factor in Indonesia's economic
and social development. It is, therefore, of the utmost importance that the
Government continue its efforts to strengthen key rural development institu-
tions.
33.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank Group and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue. The Bank Group is devoting considerable
staff time to various analyses of the rural sector (e.g., employment, irriga-
tion development, support services, and food crop production).
34.       The Bank Group has been, and should continue to be, involved in a
broad range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the
First Irrigation Project in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural and rural lending to include virtually all segments of agriculture.
Credits already closed and for which Project Completion Reports have been
prepared (e.g., Estates I, Irrigaton I) showed excellent rates of return
ranging from 25% to 33%. Taking 1974 as the base year, Bank Group-assisted
projects will contribute almost 60% of the increase in palm oil output by
1980, about 16% of incremental sugar production and 6% of incremental rice and
rubber. Four continuing trends in the Bank Group's agricultural lending to
Indonesia are: (a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development activities;
(b) a shift from support of state enterprises to direct support of smallholders;
(c) increased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d) greater emphasis on develop-
ment of the Other Islands. All these trends are consistent with the Govern-
ment's changing policies.



- 12 -
Transmigration
35.       Past Program Performance.  The Indonesian transmigration program is
one of the largest organized resettlement efforts in the world. Since 1905
successive Governments have sponsored the migration of poor farmers from the
overcrowded inner islands - particularly Java - to relatively underutilized
neighboring islands - particularly Sumatera. All told, Government programs
have transferred nearly one million settlers.
36.       Following W4orld War II, the Government resumed the transmigration
program with ambitious targets but limited financial support. Under these
circumstances pre-settlement preparation was poor. Sites were often remote
and inaccessible, and villages inappropriately located and occasionally
removed from their agricultural lands.  IWithout adequate policies for the
compensation of indigenous farmers, land tenure conflicts and enmity between
ethnic groups occurred. Migrants often spent most of the first year clearing
their agricultural land and were frequently below self-sufficiency when their
subsistence supplies ceased. Most were without access to agricultural inputs
such as fertilizer and hybrid seed, and were unfamiliar with cropping stra-
tegies suitable to their land. In spite of these problems, however, the hard
work and initiative of the settlers produced many settlements which provided
viable alternatives to subsistence in Java.
37.       During the first two Five-Year Development Plans (1969-79) the goals
of the program were shifted; the Government began to emphasize the contribu-
tion of transmigrants to regional development and it required that settler
welfare be improved. Bilateral assistance for transmigration began in 1971
and expanded after 1974, and with increased funding, project preparation
improved. However, three main problems continued to affect the size and
effectiveness of the program. First, sector coordination between Government
rlinistries and Departments was inadequate. Second, the resources of the
Directorate-General of Transmigration (DGT) itself were severely strained.
The DGT alone was responsible for planning and implementing land clearance,
road construction, infrastructure development and resettlement; it arranged
for the provision of land titles, health services, agricultural extension and
schools. With limited manpower and a small budget the complex task of settle-
ment had long taxed the resources of the DGT, but between 1974 and 1979 the
attempt simultaneously to expand the scale of the program and sophistication
of all components resulted in increasing target shortfalls. Third, a wide
ranging controversy over several technical aspects of the program (para. 41)
has cast doubt in some quarters about the program's technical feasibility, and
partly explains the frequent changes in the approach to transmigration as well
as the delays in initiating a massive site identification/preparation effort.
38.       Confronted by ongoing management problems and the continuing
contradiction between size of targets and their shortfalls, the Government
reorganized the transmigration program in preparation for Repelita III.
Under the new arrangement, responsibility for project implementation has been
transferred to the agencies normally responsible for each sector. All



- 13 -
agencies are coordinated by a newly appointed Junior Minister of Transmigration,
who is responsible to the Minister of Transmigration and the President and
who is assisted by special representatives of each of the implementing
agencies (paras. 59-61).
39.       Transmigration will be a central feature of the Third Five-Year
Development Plan (Repelita III, 1979-84). The Government has begun preparation
for moving 500,000 families during this period, mostly landless farm laborers
and small part-time farmers from Java, to frontier areas mainly in Sumatera,
Kalimantan and Sulawesi. This is a sevenfold increase over settlement rates
achieved during the Second Five-Year Plan (Repelita II). The problems involved
in making this quantum jump are enormous, but the Government is convinced that
failure to accelerate the rate of development in the Other Islands would
jeopardize the national goals of providing jobs, raising per capita incomes,
increasing food crop production, promoting national integration and achieving
a better balanced and sustained use of natural resources in the country as a
whole. Bank Group contributions to this effort are envisioned both in support
of specific projects and in overall program development.
40.       Issues and Uncertainties.  Throughout the history of transmigration
a number of justifications have been put forward in support of transmigration,
the most important of which are to: (a) alleviate population pressures in
Java; (b) create employment opportunities; (c) increase food and tree crop
production; (d) improve the living conditions and incomes of impoverished and
landless laborers from Java; (e) promote balanced regional development; and
(f) strengthen the influence of the Central Government in the Other Islands.
While all of the above considerations have played a role in the transmigration
program, even today different degrees of emphasis are given to each factor by
various Government agencies as well as external donors. The Bank Group has
discussed all aspects of these problems with the Government and, while it is
clear that not all supporters of the transmigration program can be satisfied
simultaneously, nevertheless the Government at the highest levels is con-
vinced that transmigration will contribute to national development and it is
concerned that projects be undertaken and groundwork for a vastly expanded
transmigration program be laid.
41.       There are also technical and policy issues on which differences
of opinion exist. These issues have been examined carefully by Bank staff
during the different stages of project preparation. Given the complex nature
of these issues and the current state of knowledge, there can be no certainty
that the approach proposed under this project would successfully resolve all
of them. However, the staff is convinced that appropriate precautionary
measures have been introduced and that on balance the proposed project is
technically sound.
42.       The following is a summary of the main issues and the manner in
which they have been addressed under the proposed project:
(a) Land Use for Food Crop Production. Results from research work
in Sumatera as well as examination of existing settlements
confirm that, with proper soil conservation and the application of
farm inputs, sustained food crop cultivation on marginal soils in



- 14 -
the Other Islands is feasible. As indicated in para. 75, the
Government's ability to provide adequate and timely farm inputs
and supporting services poses a certain risk to sustained culti-
vation, but this risk was judged to be acceptable. Questions
have also been raised on the type of land to be opened - primary
forest (which minimizes land tenure problems) or grasslands (which
preserves the forest but leads to conflicts with local farmers).
While the use of grasslands has the dual advantage of reclaiming
unused wasteland and preserving valuable timber land, opening up
of such land is considered reasonable in instances where forest
land is located along main transport arteries (as is the case in
the proposed project).
(b) Land Clearing. In assessing the appropriate methods, i.e., mech-
anical vs. manual, for opening new lands without damaging the soil
or destroying valuable timber, and whether such methods should
maximize speed of implementation or employment, the most advantageous
approach was found to be a combination of both methods. Tinder the
proposed project all timber at least 30 cm in diameter at breast
height would be cut by hand or chain saw, and the clearing of all
remaining timber and the windrowing would be done mechanically.
Initial land clearing under the project would be limited to about
one-third of the settler's holding.
(c) Appropriate Target Incomes, Farm Size and Village Plans (i.e., Nucle-
ated vs. Linear). With several different development modes having
been adopted for settlements in the Other Islands, it is impractical
to adopt a uniform target income or farm size. The current Govern-
ment policy of providing settlers on rainfed schemes with 3.5 ha
farms which are generally suitable for both food crop production
(2.0 ha) and tree crops (1.5 ha) should enable farmers to diversify
their operations, make full use of available family labor, and
enjoy incomes well above those prevailing in rural Java. As for
village plans, past experience in transmigration settlements
suggests that small blocks of 25 - 50 households, which combine the
features of both nucleated and linear villages, are best suited to
the social and agricultural requirements of the settlers. The
proposed project is consistent with the above policy.
(d) Government Support to Settlers. On the issue of the degree of finan-
cial support which settlers require, as indicated in para. 43, finan-
cial constraints and the desire to accommodate the largest possible
number of settlers must be weighed against the need to ensure the
economic viability of the new settlements. The investment of
S4,250/family under the proposed project would ensure such viability
at an income level somewhat higher than the average rural income.
(e) Interests of Local Population in Settlement Areas, and Promotion of
Spontaneous Migration. Suitable measures to protect the interests
of the local population in sites selected under the proposed project
as well as measures to attract spontaneous (i.e. unsponsored)
settlers are discussed in para. 48 below.



- 15 -
(f) Use of Consultants in the Transmigration Program. In the short
run, because trained manpower is in short supply throughout Indonesia
and there is the additional problem of attracting civil servants on
fixed salaries to work in frontier areas, heavy reliance on consult-
ants is inevitable. The proposed project will attempt to correct
this situation by providing training and constructing houses and
other facilities for Government personnel in the settlement areas.
43.       Recent Government thinking on transmigration, therefore, may be
summarized as follows. First, there is a need for a massive increase in the
transmigration program. Transmigration can reduce pressures on marginal lands
in the overcrowded areas of Java and Bali; can absorb a portion of the
agricultural labor force displaced by landlessness and technological change;
can reduce food crop deficits and increase tree crop exports by bringing
unutilized lands into production; and can contribute to regional development
by attracting infrastructure and services to sparsely populated areas and
creating growth poles around which future development can take place.
Secondly, largely due to budgetary constraints, transmigration on the scale
envisioned by the Government must be carried out at low investment per
settler. The Government recognizes, however, that substantial public sector
investments at the initial stages of the program are necessary to promote
settler self-sufficiency, increase the economic viability of the community,
and lead to spontaneous migration and regional growth.
44.       Transmigration I.  In FY77, the Bank made a loan of $30 million for
an experimental project (Loan 1318-IND) intended to upgrade 12,000 settler
families and establish a new community for 4,500 more. Both of these schemes
are located in Sumatera in rainfed areas of low agricultural productivity -
areas considered typical of the marginal lands in the Other Islands available
for future projects. New migrants were provided with five hectares of land,
of which one-half ha was clean cleared and one ha in immature block-planted
rubber. They also received draft animals and agricultural inputs aimed at
promoting early agricultural surplus. The project was intended to test the
assumption that viable migrant communities could be established in areas of
rainfed agriculture in the Other Islands.
45.       After nearly two years, the rehabilitation part of the project is
somewhat behind schedule but settler welfare in the new community of Baturaja
is encouraging. The 400 families in Unit I had nearly one ha per family in
agricultural production and a survey of settlers' incomes suggested an
average family income of $545, which was about 15% above the minimum sub-
sistence level defined at appraisal as $475, and substantially above estimated
annual farm incomes in Java (about $265) in the stratum from which migrants
come. These higher incomes have resulted because the settlers have farmed
more intensively and cleared larger areas than projected at appraisal, and
because project construction has provided considerable off-farm work oppor-
tunities. There are now 1,300 sponsored families in Baturaja and, as evidence
of the relative attraction of this community, the first 400 families have
attracted 485 spontaneous settlers in their first 18 months on site. While
migrants in Baturaja are doing well, overall project performance is behind
schedule. Weak organization and management are the major factors limiting



- 16 -
project progress, a general problem exacerbated by the introduction of new
organizational arrangements unfamiliar to the DGT. The realignment of
administrative and technical responsibilities outlined in paras. 58-62 below
should lead to an improvement in the execution of this project and also
enhance the Government's capability to implement a large-scale transmigration
program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       Project site selection was based on the results of the South Sumatera
Regional Study carried out by Bonn University and Robert R. Nathan Associates.
Detailed investigations and site preparation were carried out by the Director-
ate General of Transmigration (DGT) in the Ministry of Manpower and Transmi-
gration, and the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public
Works, with technical assistance from the United Kingdom Overseas Development
Ministry (ODM) under British bilateral aid. The project was appraised in
February and July 1978. Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2349a-IND, dated May 14,
1979), is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 9 to
17, 1979, with the Indonesian delegation led by Dr. Saleh Affif, Deputy
Chairman of BAPPENAS.
Project Formulation
47.       The project would be the first to assist the Government's expanded
transmigration program under the Third Five-Year Plan. It would create employ-
ment opportunities, increase food crop production, improve the living condi-
tions and incomes of the settlers, reduce pressures on marginal lands in
Java and Bali, and settle sparsely populated areas of Jambi province, thus
contributing to regional development and creating growth poles around which
future development can take place. Unlike the settlements under the Trans-
migration I project, which were based partially on tree crop development, the
project emphasizes food crop development in response to national priorities to
increase food crop production and the need to keep settlement costs low. This
shift was also influenced by the recent wide availability of fertilizer in
Indonesia, by current research work and field trials on food crop production
in rainfed areas, and by encouraging food crop yields obtained by migrants in
the Transmigration I project.  This emphasis on food crops does not preclude,
however, the future development of tree crops in the area, and in fact the
project encourages such diversification at a later stage. To strengthen the
organization and management of the project and the Government's expanded
transmigration program, the proposed project would provide considerable
technical assistance to the implementing agencies. It would also prepare the
way for several future projects through aerial photography, surveys, mapping,
feasibility studies and detailed design work.
48.       In order to minimize conflict with the local population, project
sites were carefully limited to uninhabited areas. Furthermore, about 10% of
all settlers would be selected from among the local population. Since these
people are generally shifting cultivators and rubber tappers unfamiliar with
the language or culture of the people from Java, close attention would be



- 17 -
given during implementation to their integration within the settlements and to
the provision of project components appropriate for them. Project services
and facilties would also be extended to some 4,000 transmigrant families who
were recently settled by the Government on one of the project sites. Finally,
since spontaneous movement of migrants meets the ultimate goal of resettlement
in a less costly, less cumbersome and, perhaps, less risky manner than full
Government support, some land would be reserved under the project in order to
promote such spontaneous settlement.
Project Description
49.        The proposed project would launch a land development program
along the Trans-Sumatera Highway by resettling about 30,000 families from
impoverished and ecologically threatened areas of Java and Bali (90%) as well
as from Sumatera (10%) on four sites in the province of Jambi. It would also
upgrade the conditions and services provided to 4,000 transmigrant families
who were recently settled in the same area.
50.       The project's main features are as follows:
(a) Land Clearing and Site Preparation. Clearance of about 37,500 ha
of forested land for resettling 30,000 new families and about
7,500 ha for roads and public facilities. Construction of a 30 m x
1,200 m airstrip at Sarolangun, upgrading of the airstrip at Rimbo
Bujang to 30 m x 1,200 m, and provision of air communications
facilities at both airstrips. Construction of above 700 km of
access and link roads, and about 1,700 km of village roads, and of
offices, quarters and service facilities for project personnel at
Hfuara Bungo and each of the five sites.
(b) Community Development and Settler Relocation. Construction of:
about 30,000 transmigrant houses with sanitary facilities; about
7,600 shallow wells (10-15 m) and about 300 deep wells (80 m) for
water supply; and community facilities including sub-health centers,
schools, places of worship, village halls, offices and quarters for
officials, guest houses and stores, markets, banks and post offices.
Distribution of agricultural implements and a subsistence food
supplement over 12 months to the 30,000 families, and provision of
malaria control in the settlement areas.
(c) Agricultural Support Services. Construction of buildings and
related facilities for two seed farms, one plant protection brigade,
the livestock component and about 75 village cooperatives. Distribu-
tion of an initial package of annual crop and vegetable seeds and
perennial seedlings to new settlers, and fertilizer and pesticide
initially at subsidized prices to support food cropping by new
settlers and the existing transmigrant families. Purchase and
distribution of about 8,800 head of cattle.
(d) Investigations and Designs. Aerial photography, soil surveys,
forestry inventories, slope association studies and mapping required
to identify future settlement sites and prepare projects to settle
about 150,000 transmigrant families on about 225,000 ha.



- 18 -
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation. Establishment of a monitoring, evalua-
tion and research unit to monitor and evaluate the entire transmi-
gration program, in particular the proposed project, and carry out
supplementary data collection when needed.
(f) Consultants, Training and Equipment. Provision of consultants
to assist with the implementation of the above project components,
training of project staff, and procurement of equipment, vehicles
and supplies.
Detailed Features
51.       Land clearing of forest areas for food crop production would be
restricted to land of under 8% slope, with the top soil disturbed as little as
possible. Erosion control measures would be undertaken on all cleared areas.
The settlements would be arranged in small neighborhood blocks of 25-50
households, and a village would consist of several of these blocks (250-500
families in each) around a central service area. The project would provide
administrative and community facilities in the villages, such as health,
educational, religious and cooperatives infrastructure and services. For
every 2,000 families, it would also provide a main village with additional
services. The 'Directorate-General of Transmigration would provide each family
with a standard package consisting of clothes, cooking utensils, and tools,
plus a subsistence ration of staple foods distributed in-between harvests
during the settlers' initial year. In the event of crop failure or other
circumstances beyond the control of the participating farmers during the
first year of settlement, the Government would distribute rice and other
essential commodities for the second year of settlement (Section 3.07(a) and
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       Each transmigrant family would be given 3.5 ha of land, of which
2.0 ha would be suitable for food cropping and 1.5 ha for tree crops. The
project would clear 1.25 ha/family of the food cropping land, leaving 2.25 ha/
family in forest for future development. To ensure the new settlers' land
rights under the project, the Government would ensure that each such settler
would receive a certificate evidencing rights to land use (Hak Pakai) for his
house lot and 1.75 ha of other land within one year after his arrival, and to
the remaining 1.50 ha of land within two years after his arrival; and would
receive a certificate evidencing full land ownership (Hak Milik) to the full
3.50 ha within 5 years after arrival on site (Section 3.15 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project would supply transmigrants with a
variety of agricultural inputs such as seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and
draft cattle.  On arrival at the site, each settler family would receive
an initial supply of annual food crop seed and perennial tree crop seedlings.
The family would also receive fertilizers and pesticides at considerably
subsidized prices for the first three years. The families' repayments for
these fertilizers and pesticides would be used to establish revolving credit
funds for farmers' future purchases of crop inputs. Under a future, second
stage of development, the Government would plan, organize and assist the
transmigrants to develop their remaining 2.25 ha for food crops and perennial
tree crops. The Government would submit to the Association for review and



- 19 -
comment by December 31, 1980, a plan for agricultural and other development of
the remaining 2.25 ha per family. In the clearing and development of the
remaining hectarage, the Government would minimize fragmentation of the 2 ha
per family provided for the house lot and foodcropping area (Section 3.11 (a)
and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
53.        The total project cost is estimated at $242 million (exclusive
of local, provincial and national taxes), of which $144.1 million (58%) is
in foreign exchange. Project costs are in mid-1979 prices. These cost
estimates include physical contingencies consistent with the degree of prepar-
ation and complexity of the various project elements: about 25% for land
clearing and roads; 15% for construction of buildings; and 10% for services,
equipment, and supplies. The cost estimates also include allowances for
expected price increases during project execution (41% of base cost plus
physical contingencies). Based on recent similar contracts in Indonesia,
consultant costs have been estimated at $8,700/man-month (including all
overheads, housing and travel) for expatriate firms and $1,200/man-month for
local firms.
54.       The proposed Bank loan of $90 million and IDA credit of $67 million
would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project ($144.1 million)
plus $12.9 million of local costs (para. 17). An EEC Special Action Credit
of about $5.5 million would supplement these funds (para. 56 and 57).
The Government would meet the remaining expenditures out of annual budgetary
allocations.
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       Except for 15 start-up vehicles which would be purchased under the
consultants' contracts, vehicles, equipment and supplies ($7.9 million)
would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Equipment, spare
parts and supplies costing less than $10,000 each and limited to a total of
$2.0 million, which are not suitable for international competitive bidding,
would be purchased through normal Government procurement procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank Group. There are sufficient suppliers of such goods to
ensure adequate competition. Contracts for mapping ($4.8 million) would be
awarded following local competitive bidding in accordance with normal Govern-
ment procedures. Contracts for consultants' services ($24.2 million) would be
awarded in accordance with Bank Group guidelines on the uses of consultants.
56.       The construction of roads ($33.3 million) and land clearing of
the settlement sites ($40.7 million) would be executed by the same contrac-
tor. They would be divided into five contracts covering about 9,000 ha each,
which would be awarded following international competitive bidding. A 7-1/2%
preference would be allowed to qualified local contractors in the evaluation



- 20-
of bids. All female cattle and 20% of bulls ($6.8 million) would be imported
following prudent shopping, and 80% of the bulls ($0.2 million) would be
procured locally. The construction of settler housing and water supply
($22.1 million) and agricultural infrastructure and community facilities
($17.0 million), which are relatively small and widely scattered in area and
time span, would not be of interest to international contractors. These
works would be carried out following local competitive bidding procedures
which were reviewed and found acceptable. The EEC credit would be used for
civil works and equipment produced in or supplied from any of the EEC Member
States or any developing country which is eligible to be a recipient of an EEC
Special Action Credit.
57.       Disbursements would be made at the following rates:  (a) 80% of
total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for
directly imported goods, equipment, vehicles and cattle; 95% of ex-factory
costs for locally manufactured goods and equipment; 65% of total expenditures
for imported goods and equipment procured locally, excluding vehicles; and
40% of local expenditures for locally procured cattle and locally assembled
vehicles; (c) 100% of total expenditures for mapping, consultants, research
and training; (d) 60% of total cost of relocation and subsidies to settlers;
and (e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
agrochemicals. The EEC Special Action Credit would be disbursed according to
the same percentages as the Bank Group financing of the project, and is
expected to be totally disbursed within two years. In consultation with the
Bank Group, savings under the proposed loan and credits would be applied to
financing additional settlements. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1985.
Organization and Management
58.       Weak organization and poorly coordinated implementation and management
responsibilities have been major flaws in past efforts to develop the transmi-
gration program. To overcome this and to enable the expansion and acceleration
of the transmigration program, Presidential Decree No. 26 was formulated and
issued on August 31, 1978. Principally this decree allocated responsibility
for transmigration implementation to the various ministries ordinarily respon-
sible for each sector, and proposed a means of coordinating the implementing
agencies. The decree established a ministerial level Coordinating Board,
reporting directly to the President, to set broad policy guidelines for
program implementation and to promote inter-agency coordination. It describes
the duties of the Junior Minister for Transmigration who, assisted by a manage-
ment board, is responsible for the day-to-day execution of the Coordinating
Board's policies. This management board consists of the heads of all partici-
pating Directorates-General, who would receive direct budget allocations to
execute their functions in keeping with standard financing and institutional
procedures in Indonesia. To promote integration of line agencies in the
various regions, the Decree charges the Governor and a Provincial Committee
for Transmigration with responsibility for coordinating all the participating
agencies at the provincial level.



- 21 -
59.       The project management organization is as follows:  the Junior
Minister of Transmigration, working through his Secretariat in Jakarta, would
have primary responsibility for coordinating the activities of all agencies
involved in the proposed project and the overall transmigration program. He
would monitor the preparation, implementation and impact of project components
and assure their timely execution. To this end, a Project Coordinator and a
Regional Project Coordinator would be appointed with their line of authority
to the office of the Junior Minister.
60.        The Project Coordinator within the Junior Minister's Office would
coordinate the activities of all the implementing agencies, each of which
would appoint a liaison officer in Jakarta to work exclusively on the proposed
project. The main agencies which would be involved in the project include:
(a) the Directorate-General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public
Works, (b) the Directorate-General of Transmigration (DGT) within the Ministry
of Transmigration and Manpower, (c) the Directorate-General of Food Crops
Agriculture (DGFCA) within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), (d) the
Agency for Research and Development (ARD) in the MOA, (e) the Directorate-General
of Livestock Services (DGLS) within the MOA, (f) the Directorate-General of
Agrarian Affairs (DGA) in the MOA, and (g) the Directorate General of Coopera-
tives (DGC) within the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives.
61.       Directly under the Project Coordinator would be a Regional Project
coordinator at the project headquarters in Muaro Bungo who would coordinate
the operations of the field staff of the implementing agencies. Generally,
these staff would consist of a head of field operations, stationed in Muaro
Bungo, and on-site staff in the settlement areas. The project headquarters
staff would be supplemented by internationally and locally recruited consultants,
attached to each agency. The head of field operations for each of the line
agencies would coordinate closely with the provincial authorities. On-site
staff from line agencies, headed by a deputy field or site manager, would be
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project at each of the five
sites. The Government would, by June 30, 1979, appoint qualified and experi-
enced staff as follows: (i) a Project Coordinator, (ii) a Regional Project
Coordinator, (iii) a Site Manager for each of the implementing agencies at
each of the project sites. It would also designate a Liaison Officer for
each of the implementing agencies in Jakarta and at field project headquarters.
The Association would be afforded an opportunity to comment on the quali-
fications and experience of the Project Coordinator prior to that appointment
(Section 3.12 (i), (ii) and (iii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Candidates for most of these appointments have already been identified. The
Government would cause each participating agency to submit to the Association,
by June 30, 1980, for review and comment a detailed plan of its operations
and responsibilities under the project (Section 3.10 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
62.       The proposed project would provide for the training of JMT, DGT, DGH,
DGFCA, DGLS, and DGA personnel to upgrade their capability in implementing
this project as well as future projects in the transmigration program.



- 22 -
Implementation
63.       The Overseas Development Ministry of the UK (ODM) has investigated
and surveyed four of the project sites and produced maps at 1:40,000 scale on
land use, soils, slope associations, timber resources and recommended land
use. ODM has also prepared outline development plans for these project
sites. Using this work as a basis, local consultants under DGH's supervision
are preparing detailed site plans, implementation schedules and bidding
documents for the four proposed sites.
64.       The project would be implemented from mid-1979 to March 1985.
Land clearing and road construction for the first phase of the settlement
units (about 9,000 ha each) are expected to begin in early 1980. Land
clearing operations and village center and settler housing construction would
be carried out over a four and a-half year period, ending in December 1984.
The proposed sites for roads, village centers and seed farms would be cleared
first. The construction of roads, infrastructure for agricultural support
services, community facilities and housing for transmigrant families would
follow sequentially, with the last housing unit expected to be completed by
December 1984. Transmigrant families would begin to arrive on site in
October 1980, and would all be settled by March 1985. Beginning in October
1980 and finishing in March 1985, fertilizers and pesticides would be supplied
to the transmigrants under the project during the first three years after
their arrival on site.
Agricultural Production
65.       The project would make rainfed agricultural production possible
on 36,000 ha by clearing presently forested areas and providing extension
services, seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, plant protection services, and
drying, processing and storage facilities and services. Of this area, trans-
migrant families would farm 30,000 ha to annual food crops and 6,000 ha to
gardens of vegetables, fruit trees and perennial tree crops. By also provid-
ing the existing settlers with agricultural supporting services for the areas
they are already farming (1.2 ha/family), the project would increase agricul-
tural production on an additional 4,800 ha of rainfed land. Crops grown
would include paddy, corn, cassava and leguminous cash crops such as soybeans,
peanuts, ricebean and cowpeas. At full agricultural development, estimated
annual aggregate crop production in the project area would be: paddy, 58,000
tons; corn, 27,000 tons; cassava, 163,000 tons; and leguminous cash crops,
14,000 tons.
Cost Recovery
66.       In accordance with Government policy, project beneficiaries would
pay no taxes or direct project charges until DGT transfers administration of
the settlements to the Provincial Government, around the start of year seven.
Project farmers would then pay a land tax (IPEDA). Since the land tax is
assessed as a percentage of the value of farm production, the amounts collected
would increase as crop yields rise in response to the project. At full
agricultural development in the project areas, IPEDA would reach an estimated
$14.40/ha.



- 23 -
67.       In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits, cost and rent recovery indices have been calcu-
lated. The cost recovery index is 5%, and the rent recovery index is 17%.
These recovery rates, which are low by comparison with other agricultural
projects in Indonesia, are acceptable in view of the inherent risk and hardship
associated with the project. In addition, they are acceptable because even at
full development farm incomes are only expected to be about 20% of the
estimated per capita GNP at that time, and because higher recovery rates
would require higher incomes, which in turn would require higher Government
investments, and would thus be self-defeating. A higher recovery rate would
be feasible, however, from investments associated with development of the
balance of the transmigrants' holding.
Benefits and Justification
68.       The project would create 30,000 new farms and associated settle-
ments in Jambi province. It would make upland food crop production possible
on 36,000 ha, and increase crop yields and production on another 4,800 ha
growing upland crops and gardens. It would directly benefit some 34,000
farm families or 170,000 people, and by creating potential employment
opportunities in other sectors to service the agricultural settlements,
indirectly benefit at least another 17,000 families. Project construction
would provide considerable employment opportunities to the settlers. For
example, land clearing operations would need some 1.5 million man-days (or
6,200 man-years) of unskilled labor. Farming operations would require an
additional 10.5 million man-days (or 44,000 man-years) of labor annually.
Additionally, most of the jobs the project would create can be considered
new jobs since, in their areas of origin in Java and Bali, the transmigrants
were doing work of low productivity and their leaving the labor force would
not greatly reduce local production. Service jobs, such as those in adminis-
tration and health, are unlikely to be reduced because the transmigrants
leave an area.
69.       This project would serve as a nucleus for further development through
the attraction of spontaneous transmigrants and as a center for private and
further Government investment, and would enlarge and enhance services available
to the existing population. It would help reduce crowded conditions in the
transmigrants' home areas, and would support the Government's policies of
increasing domestic food production, employment, and the moving towards
self-sufficiency in rice production, thus reducing foodgrain imports.
70.       Under the project, the cost of site preparation, community develop-
ment and resettlement is $4,250 per family. This cost is in constant mid-1979
prices, and excludes price contingencies and costs attributed to national
programs and the preparation of future projects. This can be compared with
$6,600 ($5,000 in early-1976 prices) per family for similar items under
the Transmigration I project.
71.       The economic rate of return for the project is 12%.  This rate was
tested in regard to its sensitivity to fluctuations of a number of key
variables. The analysis indicates that the rate of return is only moderately
sensitive to an increase in project costs, but is quite sensitive to a



- 24 -
decrease in total benefits or a delay in the commencement of benefits.
However, it is of interest that paddy yields, the most important crop to be
produced, could fall by 20% and the project would still have a 10% economic
rate of return.
72.       Project beneficiaries would mainly be landless or near-landless
laborers with incomes in the three lowest income percentiles and below the
critical consumption level. At full project development, per capita incomes
would have increased from an estimated $35 at present to $125.
Risks
73.       The major risks pertaining to the proposed project are environmental
and organizational. These risks are discussed briefly below.
74.       Environmental.  Most of the potential environmental risks associated
with the introduction of food crops relate to the land clearing phase and
subsequent erosion hazards. Without proper precaution, the sudden removal of
the tree canopy and exposure of the soils to the heavy rainfall could easily
lead to denudation of these fragile soils. Several precautionary measures
have been introduced to safeguard against such a development. First, all
sites have been carefully surveyed and mapped, and land clearing limited to
0-8% slope for food crops and 8-15% for tree crops. All steeper areas would
be left in forest. Second, on food cropping areas, intermittent contour
guidelines of grass and trees would be established, and farmers would cultivate
and plant their crops on the contour. Third, farmers would be supplied with
fertilizers at reduced prices for the first three years; this, along with an
intensive extension effort, should ensure that they will maintain a cover crop
on their land throughout the year, thereby reducing the danger of soil erosion.
75.       Organizational.  While arrangements have been made under the project
for proper land clearing and the supply of inputs and supporting services, and
the Presidential Decree of August 1978 has established a framework for closer
coordination among the implementing agencies, the new system has yet to be
fully tested under operation. Failure on the part of the project management
to coordinate the activities of the different agencies and to provide the
settlers with adequate and timely farm inputs and supporting services could
easily lead to a substantial reduction in agricultural production and farm
incomes. Although the danger of such a failure is real, the phasing of
settlement activities under the project, the heavy input of Government
staff and consultants, the advanced stage of project preparation, and the
Government's strong commitment to the transmigration program should help
minimize the risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, the Report of the Committee provided for in



- 25 -
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and the draft Special Action
Credit Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the Administrator of
the Special Action Account are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
77.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association, respectively, and that
the Special Action Credit would comply with the Agreement between the EEC and
its Member States and Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I. P. M. Cargill
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 14, 1979



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                       Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                                  /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1904.3                                                      SAME         SAMIE     NEXT HIGIER
AGRICULTURAL      283.8                                   MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     70.0        140.0     300.0             616.0       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0      178.0            522.0        88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL P(iPULATION, MID-YEAR
(!I lIU IONS)                       94.7        117.6      133.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.9           17.5       17.9              30.1        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DFNSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         50.0         62.0       70.0            156.8        46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0          419.0      470.0            794.8       254.1         95.0
POIEULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.1 /f      44.0       42.1             40.8        43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                           55.3 /f      53.5       55.1             55.4        53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6 If       2.5        2.8              3.2         2.9          3.0
PO'ULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
l'OTAL                               2.1          2.0        2.0              2.3         2.4          2.7
.RBAN                                 ..          3.7 /R    2.6               5.1         4.0          8.8
CRl0DE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      46.0         45.9       40.3              34.6       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       25.4          20.6      19.9               8.7        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          3.2       2.5               2.6         2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       181.1    1979.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             0.2      13.7             22.1        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)               96.5        100.0      102.7            106.8        96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     39.0         91.0       98.0            108.7        92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.0         43.0       43.8             57.7        50.0         56.8
OF WIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         15.0 /h      14.0       16.6             17.0        13.9         17.5
C'ILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          ..          ..         ..               4.0          ..          7.5
HEA' TH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.5           45.0       45.3             59.0        45.8          53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             125.0 /f,i      ..     116.0              44.0      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          3.0      11.0             21.9        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                  ..         10.0      41.0             58.3        63.5         68.5
RURAL                                  ..          1.0       4.0              9.8        14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         12.0      15.0             28.6        16.1         37.5
URBAN                                  ..        50.0       60.0             66.6        65.9         69.5
RURAL                                  ..          4.0       5.0              14.8         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           41380.0 /t  26830.0   16930.0             4103.1    13432.7        9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..      7770.0 jj 7310.0 /           1520.2     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1370.0       1670.0    1430.0             657.1      1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                 ..       1130.0         ..            145.5       183.3        278.4
RURAL                                  ..      1890.0         ..           1011.8      1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..        ..              19.0        19.5         19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4          4.8         ..               5.2         5.2
URBAN                                4.9          5.3         ..              5.2          4.8
RURAL                                4.3          4.7         ..              5.4         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           1.5        ..
URBAN                                 ..           1.6        ..                ..         1.8          2.3
RURAL                                 ..           1.6        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..         _,           ..              39.1        25.9         28.3
URBAN                                                            ..                 ..
RURAL                                  ..                     ..                ..         8.7         10.3



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                      Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDONESIA                                               /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 67.0         75.0      81.0             95.6       62.9         75.8
FEMALE                55.0        70.0      75.0             93.7        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0         15.0      18.0             43.3       14.4         17.7
FEMIALE                3.0        11.0       13.0            38.6         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 20.0          22.0      21.0             11.3        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         29.0      30.0             30.0       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                          14.0         13.0      15.0             25.4       19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        47.0 /k      59.0      62.0 /k          84.0       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          2.0       3.0              9.3        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0           ..      39.0             97.6       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.7        ..             21.8        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..      16.0             25.9        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..              4.6         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34600.0      44200.0   48430.0 /1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   27.9         31.0      34.2             33.2       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              75.0         69.0      60.1             48.4       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.4          9.7       8.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                54.1         49.9      52.6             38.9       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 79.8         68.7      73.8             48.6       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               29.4         32.1      36.8             28.4       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4          1.3       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         33.7 /m     ..             17.3       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52.0 /m     ..             45.6       45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.8 Im     ..              6.5        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         17.3 Im     ..             17.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     125.0            140.8       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      95.0            112.8       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0             76.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0             27.7       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      59.0             40.4       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   Id  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550
per capita, 1976);  /f  Excludes W. Irian;   /g  1961-71;  /h  1961-63;   /i  1962;   /j  Including
midwives;   /k  Aged 10 years and over;   /1  Excludes rural areas in East Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and
Irian Jaya;  /m  Income recipients.
September 1978



- 28 -                                              ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                 Page   3   of   5
Not:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and thc most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extrene values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                Population per bospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                          urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie follow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included.  Rural hospitals, however, isclude he-th and -          --
lNP PFR CAPITA (USS) - GNP per capita estimates at current narket prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical an-
calculated by same conversion method as World bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patiest accommodation and
1961, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERCiY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the numbr of beds.
(coal ard lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                     HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban.  and rural-
fOPTLLTIDN AND VITAL SiATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid--ear (millions) - As Of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may nor be included in
avorage of two snd-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions  f house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room   - total, urban, and rural - Average nue.-
of data a.ong countries.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Foyulation density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. Iky. - Mid-year population per square kiloneter (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
oi totol area                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per so. k.t agriculture lind - Computed as above for agrioultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in liviog quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population ago structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yearn), and retired (hi years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-aRe
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment nay exceed 100 percent since som.e pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rtte (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instr-cties; pro-
and fire-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Cross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondarv) - Vocational instituticns is-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clods technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Fanilc planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual nmmber of                         or as departments of secondary institutions.
.acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family pla-ing - users (percent of  arried women) - Percentage of                          sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) us
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult populatios aged 15 years and over.
FOOD ANI NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicle.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; escludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
q.uantities used is food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
qaireenOts were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished lic-nsing.
sal actioity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generai
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of  ood per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide far                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These strodards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in she Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
L.ife copecta-cy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 19}1.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor forc.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birbts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respecti-e population.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    Chese are ILDIs adiusted partieipation  rates refl-ctirg age-tse
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     str-cture of the populati-n. ond long tine trend.
safe vater supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of populatior coder 15 urd 65 and over tc
unonrtamnaoted water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                      the labor force in age group of 15-64 vears.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 oeters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
s-oable access of that house.  In ruIal areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 p-ent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROIUPS
Accnss to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty iscome level (US$ per capita) - urban and rota_ -
rural - Nunber of pe-ple (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diot plot essential non-food requirements is nrc
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
troa-tnsl, of human escreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative povertv income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
c- the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Fopulation per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (perceot) - urban and rural -
Pqpulation per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
as-ista-t curses.
Economic and Social Data Division
EcPnomic Analysis and Projections Department



-  29 -                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977 -                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                          l960-65             1965-70         1971-77
GNP at Market Prices            44,386        100.0                            1.9                 4.9            7.8
Gross Domestic Investment        8,667          19.5                           3.3                11.5           13.4
Gross National Saving            8,448          19.0                           5.8                 5.1           16.9
Currenit Acco-unt Balance      -   725      -   1.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            7,592          17.1                           1.5                 7.8           10.0
Imports of Goods, NFS            7,489          16.9                           0.2                10.9           18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
_   _                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
Value Added                     Labor Force-                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                   Min.                               ES$          __
Agriculture                     11,624       31.1                   35.3       62.6                   329          49.7
Industry                        12,672        33.9                   4.7        8.3                 2,696         407.3
Services                        13,043       35.0                   13.4       23.8                   973         147.0
Unallocated                       -             -                    3.0        5.3
Total/Average             I             ,
37;339     100.0                   56.4      lOO O                   662 -        00.0
GOVER1NENT FllA1NCE
CENTRAL GOVERNITNT
(Rp. Billion)                                             % of GDP
1976/77              1977/78                            1976                  1977
Current Receipts                2,877                3,535        -                     18.6                  18.6
Current Expenditure             1,610                2,149                              10.4                  11.3
Current Surplus                 1,26.7               1,387                              8.2                    7.3
Capital Expenditures            2,044                2,157                              13.2                  11.3
External Assistance (net)          784                  773                              5.0                   4.0
MIONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                    1972           1973         1974         1975          1976         1977
(Tfillion Rp  outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                          695           987        1,452         1,978        2,631        3,147
Bank credit to Public Sector                   129           153          209           990        1,051          865
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  524           932        1,186         1,376        1,737        2,063
(Percentages or Index Numbers-)
Money and Quasi Moniey as % of GDP              15.2          14.6          14.8         16.3         17.0          16.5
General Price Index (1966 = 100)               807         1;028-       1,370         1,640        1,873        2,094
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                             25.7          27.4         33.3          19.7         14.2         11.8
Bank credit to Public Sector                  -14.0           18.6         36.6         473.7          6.2        -17.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                   65.3          77.9       . 27.2          16.0         26.2         18.8
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Conversion at an exchange rate of Rp 415 - US$1
21 Total labor force; unenployed are allocatei to sector of their normal occupation. "UnallocatedJ' consists
mainly of unemployed wrkers seeking their first job.
not ayailable
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
February 28, 1979



- 30  -                     ~~~~~~ANNEX I
- 30 -                              Page 5
TRADE, PAYHENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1975     1976      1977(Provisional)                                      US  $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports:                       4,738   6,183    7,592                  Oil                                 2,906      57.1
Oil (net)                    2,921   3,567    4,243                  Timber                                605      11.9
Non oil                      1,817   2,216    3,349                  Rubber                                461       9.1
Imports                       -5,533  -6,352   -7,489                  Palm Oil                               117      2.3
Resource Gap                -  795  -  169        103                Tin                                    107      2. 1
Factor service:               -  462  -  646   -  828                  Coffee                                 104       2.0
Interest                    -  178  -  362   -  473
Investment Income           -  284 --  284   -  355                   All other commodities                791      15.5
Balance on Current Account  -1,257  -  8T3   -   =                            Total                        5,9       100,0
Direct Foreign Investment        497      329       286               EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               2,395   2,327    1,988                                                              US $ Mln
Amortization               -  322  -  625   -  826
Subtotal                    2,073   1,702    1,162                   Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                11,391
Capital Grants                                                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)           -2,250  -  205   )  74                    Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -   46  -  604   )   -                                                I/ 2
Increase in Reserves (+)    -  983        736    1,197                DEBT SERVICE PATIO for  197-  -/
Gross Reserves (end year)        590   1,494    2,494
Net Reserves   (end year)        490   1,226    2,423                    Public Debt. incl. guaranteed               17.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                         93      119        28
of which:  Petroleum          89      114        26
Exports
of which:  Petroleum       2,921   3,567    4,243           IBRD/IDA LENDING,(March 31, 1979)(Million US
'ATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                            IBRD          IDA
2/                Outstanding & Disb~ursed               616.4       454.1
Thru1.00 - Au. 1971              Since  -  1971U                  Undisbursed                          1,286.6       185.6
TJS Sl.00 =Rp 375               us $ 1.00= Rp 415                 Outstanding incl. Ulndisbursed    1,903.0          679.7
Rp   1000 =US $2.67             Rp   1000 =US $2.41
l/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services, with oil exports on a net basis
(i.e. excluding factor payments and imports of the oil companies).
2/ Since 11/15/78
US$ 1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1000 = US$ 1.60
not available
not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
March 31, 1979



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMFNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                 Purpose                       Bank   IDA  UJndishursed
One Loan and seventeen Credits fully disbursed              50.0  228.1         -
220     1971    Third Irrigation Rehabilitation                     14.5       0.2
259     1971    Tea                                                 15.0       0.6
260     1971    Second Highway                                      34.0       0.2
289     1972    Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.5       0.2
300     1972    Population                                          13.2       3.0
318     1972    Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                    8.5       1.8
319     1972    Fourth Agriculltural Estates                        11.0       2.0
355     1973    Beef Cattle Development                              3.6       0.2
358     1973    North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.0       0.8
387     1973    Third Education                                     13.5       4.7
388     1973    Third Highway                                       14.0       0.1
399     1973    West Java Thermal Power                             46.0       3.7
400     1973    Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.8       6.3
405     1973    Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.0       0.8
428     1974    Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.5      10.1
436     1974    Private Development Finance Co.  of
Indonesia (PDFCI)                               10.0       0.7
451     1974    Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.0       1.9
479     1974    Bali Tourism                                        16.0      10.4
480     1974    Fisheries Credit                                     6.5       1.9
514     1q75    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.0      22.4
785     1978    Small Enterprise Development Project                40.0      34.5
827     1978    Rural Credit                                        30.0      30.0
869     1979    Polytechnic /a                                      49.0      49.0
1005    1974    Railway                                     48.0               3.9
1040    1975    Jakarta UJrban Development                  25.0              2.5
1049    1975    Five Cities Water Supply                    14.5              8.4
1089    1975    Second Fertilizer Expansion                115.0               1.3
1100    1975    Sixth Irrigation                            65.0             49.0
1127    1975    Fourth Power                                41.0              3.8
1139    1976    Fertilizer Distribution                     68.0               1.1
1179    1976    Agricultural Research & Extension           21.5              18.4
1197    1976    National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0              8.5
1236    1976    Fourth Highway                             130.0             98.4
/a  Not yet effective.



- 32 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
Number   Year                  Purpose                       Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1237    1976    Fourth Education                             37.0               30.9
1250    1976    Second Shipping                              54.0               46.6
1254    1976    Third Fertilizer Expansion                   70.0               13.5
1259    1976    Fifth Power                                  90.0               72.9
1267    1976    National Food Crops Extension                22.0               15.5
1268    1976    Seventh Irrigation                           33.0               21.0
1318    1977    Transmigration and Rural
Development                               30.0              22.5
1336    1977    Second Urban Development                     52.5               21.9
1337    1977    Tanjung Priok Port                           32.0               22.9
1363    1977    Second Private Development
Finance Co. of Indonesia
(PDFCI-II)                               15.0               12.5
1365    1977    Sixth Power                                 116.0               84.8
1373    1977    Nutrition Development                        13.0               12.9
1433    1977    Teacher Training-Fifth Education             19.0               17.8
1434    1977    Eighth Irrigation                            63.0               61.1
1435    1977    Ninth Irrigation                             35.0               31.0
1437    1977    Development Finance Co.
(BAPINDO III)                            40.0               26.6
1472    1977    Second Population                            24.5               23.3
1486    1978    Non-Formal Education                         15.0               14.2
1499    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I           65.0               60.4
1513    1978    Seventh Power                               109.0              108.4
S 009   1978    Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport
Engineering                                10.0               8.7
1578    1978    Tenth Irrigation                            140.0              137.0
1579    1978    Eleventh Irrigation                          31.0               29.0
1604    1978    Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II          65.0               65.0
1645    1979    Irrigation XII /a                            77.0               77.0
1653    1979    Third Urban Development /a                   54.0               54.0
Total                                            1,903.0  679.7   1,472.2
of which has been repaid                          16.7    0.0
Total now outstanding                            1,886.3  679.7
Amount sold                                          28.1    0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                1,858.2  679.7
Total undisbursed                                1,286.6  185.6   1,472.2
/a  Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 33 -                ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                               Type of                    US$ million
Year         Obligor                 business             Loan    Equity    Total
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               10.6      2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                  Textiles              2.5     0.8         3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0     0.5         2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                 2.8     0.4         3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              4.5      1.5         6.6
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0       -        11.0-
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.4     0.7         6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco
Indonesia              Textiles              2.0     0.3         2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics           0.9       -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5         0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              2.4     0.6         3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                5.0      1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -      1.1         1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.           Textiles              0.3       -         0.3
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles              1.4     0.1         1.5
Total                                               50.8    10.5         61.3
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 29.7      1.8        31.5
Total held by IFC                                   21.1      8.7        29.8
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -       -           -



- 34 -                  ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Agriculture                                                                   Pages
Irrigation (Cr. 289, 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,
1579 and 1645/2)                                                5-6
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,
405, 480, Ln. 1318, 1499 and 1604)          6-9
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                             9-10
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    10
Education (Cr. 387, 869/2, Ln. 1237, 1433 and 1486)                           11-12
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365 and 1513)                                   12-13
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   14
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                14
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1437, Cr. 436 and Ln. 1363)              15
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       15
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           15-16
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        16
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451 and Ln. 1197)                                   16-17
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          17
Highways (Ln. 1236)                                                         17
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     18
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            18
Railways (Ln. 1005)                                                         18
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             19
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653/2)                                 19-20
Water Supply (Ln. 1049)                                                       20
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



ANNEX 1I
Page 5 of 20 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
ACRI CULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 289 Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation: US$12.5 Million Credit
of March 9, 1972; Effective Date: May 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction program has escalated in cost by 150% over the
appraisal estimate, due to an increase in the magnitude of the works and
unexpected inflation. The project is expected to be completed shortly.
Feasibility studies included in the project have been concluded and ground-
water investigations are nearing completion.
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: US$30 Million Credit
of October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the
first construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the
project schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977
and contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140%
over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but
construction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes in
the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other compo-
nents. These will be verified as bids are received for the major contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping program is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  US$63.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Disbursements are somewhat ahead of schedule, and the project is
being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
1977; Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing satis-
factorily. Some tender documents have been prepared and contracts are
expected to be let this year. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation: US$77 Million Loan of December 29,
1978. Not yet effective; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective Date:
September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20 pages
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs are expected to increase project costs by about 17% above appraisal
estimate, but the economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over
20%.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Progress of the project continues to be good, with planting of
rubber and oil palm ahead of appraisal estimates and in excellent condition.
The project has been expanded to 15,000 ha (originally 11,400 ha). The
remaining area to be planted is about 3,500 ha, of which 2,300 ha have been
cleared and are ready for planting. Technical problems exist in processing
and equipment maintenance, but construction of the oil palm mill will be
accelerated and additional capacity for crumb rubber production will also be
provided. Profitability and cost of development at PNP X are satisfactory,
while the capital structure of PNP X is to be improved during the course of
the Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I Project (Loan 1499-IND). PNP X is
also participating in the Transmigration and Rural Development Project
(Loan 1318-IND).
Credit No. 355  Beef Cattle Development:  US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Several problems seriously delayed project implementation. The
Government's budget allocation was insufficient, and financial management and
coordination were weak. Changes in the scope and design of the project,
from one of breeding and fattening of beef cattle for export to that of
production of improved cattle for domestic sale as draft and breeding
animals, were approved by the Executive Directors in June 1977. The project
was reviewed in November 1977 and May 1978 and is now being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 358   North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  US$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, and the expected program of
planting rubber and oil palm by smallholders was accomplished at the end of
1977. By 1981, when the project is completed, these plantings will have been
brought to maturity. The Government has decided not to expand the project in
its present location because of the extensive support already being given to
North Sumatra Province through this and other Bank-supported projects;



- 38 -                  ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20 pages
instead, the Government is seeking the Bank's assistance for smallholder
development projects in other Provinces, including Aceh, Jambi, Riau,
S. Sumatra, W. Kalimantan and S. Kalimantan.
Credit No. 400   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea:  US$7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Since smallholders and estates prefer a heavier concentration on
replanting and less on rehabilitation, the mix had to be changed, thereby
reducing the overall area from 13,200 ha to about 10,200 ha. Although
production will not be affected, since yields from replanted tea are higher
than from rehabilitated tea, costs will exceed appraisal estimates by about
77%, since replanting is more expensive than rehabilitation and costs have
generally increased because of inflation. Delays were experienced in imple-
menting the institutional framework for long-term lending, a new venture for
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI). Because of this, and difficulties in involving
the private estates in the project, disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates. A major review of the project is currently being undertaken by the
Resident Staff in Indonesia. While the project has experienced difficulties,
it is estimated that, because of the project-induced spin-off effects, an
area at least equal in size to the project is being improved. Over 500
farmers' groups have been formed to improve tea production supported by a
project training program presently involving nearly 4,000 farmers. These
developments have been helped by a surge in tea prices (2-1/2 times appraisal
estimates). Considerable investment in factory and field development is
taking place outside the project, largely financed by short- and medium-term
loans from BRI and by private investors.
Credit No. 405   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The rehabilitation of two sugar factories and the construction
of one new factory, financed by the Credit, have been completed on schedule
and trial runs are taking place. The research part of the project is slow in
materializing; the sugar research station still requires a major consultant
input. The two PTPs involved in the rehabilitation process are both in a
particularly weak financial position, and this problem requires attention.
The Government has started an evaluation of the financial status of the
industry, but progress of this study is slow.
Crecit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: US$6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
After some initial delays, the overall project is now about
18 months behind schedule. Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20 pages
virtually completed. Boat construction is under way and all related equip-
ment is on site, ready for installation. While the quality of fishpond
lending has suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  US$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind ap-
praisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effective-
ness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate fer-
tilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are substan-
tially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence of the
relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous settlers have
already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled area at Way
Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because fertilisers are
not available on site and delayed road construction limits marketing of cash
crops. Experience to date highlights the need for improving project manage-
ment and ensuring that agricultural support services and input supply systems
are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan became effective in January 1978. Project implementation
has started slowly, due to inadequate budgeting of local funds and appoint-
ment of key consultants. Land clearing is in progress and planting material
is being distributed to smallholders.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65.0 Million
Loan of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This loan has recently become effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179 Agricultural Research and Extension I: US$21.5 Million Loan
of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and condi-
tions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers, the



- 40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20 pages
project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation estimates.
Design of all civil works has been completed, construction of extension
information centers is progressing well and expected to be completed in FY79,
and the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) plans to let
contracts for the remaining civil works shortly. At the present projected
pace of implementation all components, except fellowships, could be completed
by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1267 National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of June 4,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created. Ap-
pointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project director-
ate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional Assistant
Directors. Civil works have been resumed and, after recent approval of
prefinancing requests for 1977-78, the training program has been started.
Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing difficulties
and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with supporting documen-
tation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for prefinancing
(outlined by the Finance Ministry in October 1978) is expected to help solve
the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40.0 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This credit became effective on August 17, 1978. Despite start-up
difficulties, Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30.0 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date:  November 3, 1978; Closing Date:  March 31, 1985.
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallhold-
ers, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical
assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. BRI,
the implementing agency, is in the process of evaluating proposals for
project consultancy and preparing the lending program for the first year
(April 1, 1979 to March 30, 1980).



- 41 -                  ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387   Third Education:  US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nation-wide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the
project less effective than it could be. The training program, although on
schedule and making good progress, is out of phase with book production,
which is almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement.
Textbooks and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization
and illustrations, and their content is limited by the national curricula.
In response to Bank proposals, the Government has started a major review of
the project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook
programs and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869   Polytechnic:  US$49.0 Million Credit of December 29,
1978; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is designed to help the Government meet demand for en-
gineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new system
(polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by establishing
a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java and
Sumatera, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four accountancy development centers in existing universities.
Loan No. 1237 Fourth Education: US$37 Million Loan of April 15,
1976; Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered an eight month delay due to late signing of
the Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further delays
have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts for the
Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2 years
behind schedule. About 70% of civil works, 40% of furniture, and 100% of
technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the technical
assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT Agreements.
Overall, the Ministry of Education and LAN components are going well, but the
Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its diverse program of



-42 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20 pages
establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation may require post-
ponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433 Teacher Training: US$19.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the project closely follows the appraisal sched-
ule. The first and second phases of the program to train 160 Indonesian
educators in ways to improve teacher training and develop new curricula have
been carried out successfully. Curriculum development work is making good
progress, production of learning material is under way, and the research
designs for studies included in the project have been completed. Civil works
are on schedule, but equipment procurement is delayed by about nine months.
There are no specific implementation problems at this stage.
Loan No. 1486 Non-Formal Education: US$15.0 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven Provinces. General progress in
project implementation is satisfactory. Renovation of two existing provin-
cial centers was completed on schedule, construction contracts for four new
centers are being awarded, and furniture and equipment is being tendered.
The technical assistance component is about nine months behind schedule due
to late signing of contracts and the November 1978 devaluation; however, the
training aspects of the project are on schedule. Recruitment of foreign
experts and domestic consultants is accelerating satisfactorily; initial
staff training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
being carried out. It will be another two years before the project can be
expected to make a significant impact on field activities.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been syn-
chronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.



- 43 -                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975; Effective
Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be
made up. The loan disbursement is proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal
report.
Loan No. 1259 Fifth Power: US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976; Effective
Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1
(valued at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by
Lot 2, (amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed. The project
suffered an initial setback of about one year in procurement action but is
now progressing satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will
be completed prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365 Sixth Power: US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily. Orders for
major electrical and mechanical equipment were placed during the period
December 1977-February 1978. So far progress is on or slightly ahead of
schedule. Currently, estimated commissioning dates for the units are about
four to six months ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513 Seventh Power: US$109.0 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle equip-
ment, electrical equipment and power transformer, were opened on August 21,
1978. Bids have been evaluated and the Bank indicated no objection to the
recommendations for award of contracts on February 6, 1979.



- 44 -                    ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089 Second Fertilizer Expansion: US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date:  April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1979.
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the project
operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to about 92% in
1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems. Certain auxiliary
facilities, now being installed, are expected to be completed by mid-1979.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254 Third Fertilizer Expansion: US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned November 26, 1977, about
four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly 470,000
tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first year
of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded by
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit
of September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The estate is progressing satisfactorily. Of 430 ha of raw land
earmarked for acquisition, 313 ha has been acquired and acquisition of
another 31 ha is under negotiation. 119 ha of developed land have been sold
to 99 firms. Employment in these firms at full capacity will be around
19,000 and an estimated 1,400 persons are employed on the average in both
factory construction and land development. Overall, operations are profit-
able. The return on capital investment, which is now projected to be 22%, is
significantly higher than the appraisal forecast of 13.4%. This is due to
developed land values rising faster than the cost of raw land and development.
The project's development has been slower than forecast at appraisal, and the
Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980.



-45 -                    ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20 pages
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1437   BAPINDO III:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976) BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached understanding with BAPINDO and the
Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy BAPINDO's
weaknesses and achieve further improvements. A recent Bank mission found
that BAPINDO has effectively implemented the Program and achieved satisfac-
tory progress.
Credit No. 436 Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI):
US$10 Million Credit of November 2. 1973; Effective Date:
March 6. 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This Credit is fully committed.
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10.0 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31. 1983.
This loan became effective on December 22, 1978, and consultants
are in place.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Indonesian national family planning program appears to have
slackened somewhat. As of October 31, 1978, 30.0% of eligible couples in
Java and Bali were estimated to be currently using contraceptives; the
comparable figure for the 10 provinces of the Other Islands covered by
{he program is 8.2%. These figures as of March 30, 1978, were 30.1% and
9.6%, respectively. However, during the period covered there have been
some problems with data collection, which may be part of the reason for



- 46 -                  ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20 pages
the decline. The report of the consultant engaged to determine the needs for
in-house computer facilities for the National Family Planning Coordination
Board (NFPCB) is now being evaluated. Of the construction component, the
remaining two paramedical training schools are scheduled to be completed by
August 1979. No completion date has yet been estimated for one provincial
office building, which was destroyed by fire in September when it was half
completed. Other project activities which remain to be completed, including
the fellowship training program and several research studies, will also be
completed by August 1979.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 4, 1977; Closing Date:
April 30, 1983.
Considerable progress has been made on the civil works and procure-
ment aspects of the project. Of the 21 facilities, contracts have been
awarded for 20, and design drawings for the remaining building approved. The
provincial offices and training centers are scheduled to be completed by
September 1979, and the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTC) by
May 1980. Development of the national population education program and the
national family planning training program is proceeding well.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of
March 14, 1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project start.
Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February 1979. The
Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and the Center for
Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451  Fourth Technical Assistance:  US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Progress under the project is satisfactory and the bulk of the
funds have been committed.



- 47 -                  ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13.0 Mil-
lion Loan of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra
and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives,
has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained special-
ized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of
July 10, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be used
for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased because of
delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear customs on inter-
island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved. These matters are
being taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Virtually all key activities in the initial implementation schedule
agreed with the Government have been completed, although with delays of up to
one year. Construction of 1,200 km of roads has been started. Some problems
in executing the road works have been revealed on contracts started in 1976
and delays were encountered in awarding some contracts in 1977, causing a
slower rate of progress than scheduled. The project is about 25% complete.
The delays, combined with slow progress, indicate that the project will
probably be completed about 15-18 months after the Closing Date.



- 48 -                  ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20 pages
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million
Credit of June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed and is expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980.
Delay in the appointments of a number of consultants has caused a
slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and disburse-
ments. The acute financial problems of the State Shipping Company (PELNI)
have been tackled by the Government and new management is instituting a
recovery plan. The project entity (PANN) has committed, and the Bank has
approved, $22.3 million of subprojects; the Bank has disbursed and made
qualified agreement to reimburse, funds totalling $6.0 million as of
December 31, 1978. The recent change in exchange rate may adversely affect
this project in the future and slow disbursements further. This matter is
under study and being reviewed with the Government.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works
has delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made
and these works are scheduled for completion in July 1979. The first construc-
tion contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded and work is
underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow withdrawal
of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90% of the land
has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished, and a contract
for the new works has recently been awarded. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981; it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Government intends
to establish statutory agencies (PERUMS) during 1979 for ports and dredging
functions which are currently administered by government departments.
Railways
Loan No. 1005   Railway:  US$48.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: August 16, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Project execution is behind schedule due to initial slow procure-
ment and execution of works. Procurement is now well under way and all
contracts have been placed or are about to be placed. Freight and passenger



- 49 -                    ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20 pages
traffic declined in 1976, due largely to poor service. However, some
improvements have been made since the first half of 1977 following the
arrival of new locomotives and rolling stock, and operations improved
with the aid of consultants. The financial performance of the railway
continues to deteriorate due mainly to increasing costs, including a large
wage raise in early 1977, to low traffic levels, and to inadequate tariffs
for major freight commodities. The Government is completing the reorganiza-
tion of the railway as a Government Department. It has undertaken to review
the role of the railway and determine which traffic should be carried at a
profit and which should be subsidized.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974: Closing Date:
August 31, 1979.
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in mid-
1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e., roads) is scheduled
for December 1980, about two years later than planned at project appraisal.
Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8% in 1977 to 286,000
visitors and by a further 11.5% in the first eight months of 1978. Air
access is improving with the introduction of new international flights from
Singapore. At present, three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are under
consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made, changes
in the project description (recently approved by the Executive Directors)
which would allow use of savings in credit funds for hotel construction may
encourage hotel investment. It is unlikely that a first hotel at Nusa Dua
could be completed in 1980 to coincide with completion of the infrastructure.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040 Jakarta Urban Development: US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date:  January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The kampung improvement part of the project is substantially
complete. Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original
plan of 1,980 ha. The sites and services component is about 75% complete.
Problems which have arisen with regard to the standard of materials and the
procedures to be utilized in allocating the plots were resolved last year.
About 2,000 settlers have moved on the site and the remaining plots are
currently being allocated.



- 50 -                  ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20 pages
Loan No. 1336 Second Urban Development: US$52.5 Million Loan of November 4,
1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
The progress of civil works is ahead of schedule, and costs are
generally within appraisal estimates. Although land acquisition is causing
some delays, efforts are being made to speed up procedures. Progress is
being made in developing Government capabilities to undertake a nationwide
kampung improvement program in the future.
Loan No. 1653 Third Urban Development: US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Not yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The national kampung improvement program has been expanded in this
project to include Ujung Pandang, Semarang and Surakarta, as well as follow-
up components in Surabaya and Jakarta. The latter includes a new solid
wastes component, and will stress drainage and maintenance.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049 Five Cities Water Supply: US$14.5 Million Loan of
October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. This delay, together with higher rates of
inflation than anticipated, is expected to increase project costs about 30%
above the appraisal estimate. Detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents have been completed, and contracts for all equipment and for major
civil works have been signed. The project has reached the construction
phase. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water enter-
prises is proceeding satisfactorily. In September 1978, the Government
issued an interministerial decree defining relationships between the various
Ministries and the Water Enterprises, which is expected to expedite current
and future projects in the sector.



- 51 -                          ANNEX III
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2 years
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Directorate-General of Trans-
migration (DGT) in the Ministry of Transmigration and Manpower
and Directorate-General of Highways (DGH) in the "linistry of
Public W4orks, using consultant assistance.
(c) First presentation to Bank: Late 1976
(d) First Bank mission to prepare project: Early 1977
(e) Dates of departure of appraisal mission: February and July 1978
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: April 17, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Government would submit to the Association for review and
comment by December 31, 1980, a plan for agricultural and other
development of the 2.25 ha per family remaining after initial
clearance of 1.25 ha per family. The Government would minimize
fragmentation of the 2 ha per family allocated to the house lot
and food crops (para. 52).
(ii) The Government would ensure that participating farmers on the
new sites receive specified agricultural inputs during their
first year of settlement and, in the event of crop failure or other
circumstances beyond the farmers' control, would also provide rice
and other essential commodities during their second year after
settlement (para. 51).
(iii) The Government would ensure that each new settler under the project
would receive legal rights to land use for his house lot and
1.75 of other land within one year after arrival on site, and to the
remaining 1.50 within two years after his arrival, and would be
accorded full land ownership to all 3.5 ha within 5 years after
arrival on site (para. 52).



- 52 -                         ANNX III
Page 2
(iv) The Government would cause each agency participating under the
project to submit to the Association by June 30, 1980, for review
and comment a detailed plan of operation indicating how it will
handle its responsibilities and duties under the project (para. 61).
(v) By June 30, 1979, suitably qualified individuals would be appointed
as Project Coordinator, Regional Project Coordinator, Site Managers
for each of the implementing agencies, and a Liaison Officer
would be designated for each of the implementing agencies in
Jakarta and at field project headquarters. The Association would
be given an opportunity to comment upon the qualifications of the
Project Manager before that appointment (para. 61).



IBRD 131914R
TO PA KA NBARL'  10RU   0i -orp/ bee pep.paedu y thd tA                                                   MAY 1979
102- 0                          Worl Ba-ks-teff enh,tirey f.r
-                                           tire~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M   ean to winh it t atta-hedZ
The-de-sasn nusedand th.                   MALAYSIA  5-dh
houndanes shear  as th,s stp     Mi,,  r
o nWorl,d B.nk ad it.s affilts, any  C        LMostcur
0              ;R   I  A   U                                                 ydae t-tohleyal stet- t tf
ANsdt               IN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~                  ry ecua~~~~~~~. ptenue of suc h bound rias
S                 \- .R                                                                                     9         2,   .        4 > A R
-5        D00   DOCANl
W E S    Koto Bcru
Existing Settlement Areas ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~2 Wet umrr
Proposed SeStlement AreasS SoLth Sumatra
I'~ '>  Potential Extension Areae                                                               rritory   h S.tA
/ / :RIM8 4_~~~~~Tabo                                        8      .        Berb9k4Vl            WEST JAVA
/ / J 8U iWqGMuorl-  
X         /                   ~~~~~~~Bungo (                           _                                          y
i'1          J~~~~~~~~,     4                     M~~~~~uoro Tem   > 
J A M    Fi  Hdae
-40008V'                                                                                         @                                     4'000-
(7"  Proposed Nucleus Estate~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~irSri U,dr ontrctc
' -    Provincial Boundarong
INDONESIA                                                                           P EMBANG
SECOND TRANSMIGRATION PROJECT  >u     
_11        Existing Settlement Areasr 
Proposed Settlernent Areas                             SO UT            /<                             A>3
3'00O,    A       Project Field Headquarters                   ^                   t                             p3'000E-
f- >  Proposed Nucleus Estate                      N                         
Roads                                        N1Z 
-  - Provincial Boundaries                                                
0    ,    2,     s s ,o            7,    s    100
KILOMETERS
0                 25                 50                                                        gbntn;
102j°00'                                           103 0           TPE AG






'   .aV._>THAILAND   '+                                R5    Av                         liO           9            (   125t>                              lio                               lisd                                   1BRD12696R3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD1266 
Aseh  ;; < JX    \   V                       ;                   n   / <                        \   447 PHILIPPINES W .-                                            ~ADMINISTRATION AND POPULATION                                                         5
q  9,23                    S\                                So uth           Chior>          Se a             BRUN~ EXz>,zPOICA ONAK
< 1 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
S N7RTr WATPRA   0 $e        m        w      4 AK/LRtA                                          i    J   e   a          U;unq Dpdzaq                 B;6B00n,                                             MAHS e A 7;                          f                            a  n
16 E UTK SU5R^+ RA        q<.,smgrgir!,                                        A¢^iDUR4                                           07                                                                                                                            >(;  >e  8 <~~~~~~T 
NdS.UL                                                      ,         ,     ,          ,           , n&4,                                                                                                                                                                                ,_ 
S3 0Ua. E :T UIAWES ' \ / n d / T n ~~~~~~~~~ 7 b _ a -- 3< 9 > 6 M M=Ukg, 1~~.0   2
S M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AWNU  ;&Awgp Kup E ;f  _                                                                                                                                         O IOVA    2yo290:059 0 9 0
2E EAET MVgA TENgsARA   \~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
EP RIAN JATA KILOME1ER5 ~~., p..g.....  ,,,...S,^e ....  * ...X.
9 k ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./nS#ns    ss7er to v_
100'               IC3                                !°                                1b,5                  \            }20                                125'                              150>                                135'                             IAO'          -



