Document of '                              CoPY
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2349b-INli
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 14, 1979
Regional Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00        =       Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100         =       US$0.160
Rp 1 million   =       US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)           =  0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                 =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq m)  =  0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)        =  35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                 =  0.264 gallons (USA)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =  2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"    =  800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
= 500 kg milled rice
1 ton paddy (gabah)         =  630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1lMarch 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ARD           -  Agency for Research and Development
ATT           -  Agricultural Technical Team within the Ministry of Agriculture
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia - Peoples' Bank of Indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG   -  Badan Urusan Logistik/Depo Logistik - "National Logistics
Body" - Rice Procurement Agency/provincial branch
CRIA          -  Central Research Institute for Agriculture
DGA           -  Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
DGC           - Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGE           -  Directorate General of Estates
DGFCA         -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGH           -  Directorate General of Highways
DGLS          -  Directorate General of Livestock
DGT           -  Directorate General of Transmigration
DIP           -  Daftar Isian Projek - Project implementation budget
FAO           -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOI           -  The Government of Indonesia
HYV           -  High-yielding variety
INPRES        -  Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction" - a rural
improvement program
IPEDA         -  Iuran Pembangunan Daerah - land tax
JMT           -  Office of the Junior Minister for Transmigration
KUD           -  Koperasi Unit Desa - village unit cooperative
MER           -  Monitoring, evaluation and research unit
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
MOH           -  Ministry of Health
NES           -  Nucleus estate and smallholder projects
0DM           -  Overseas Development Ministry of the United Kingdom Government
Repelita I    -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II   -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
Repelita III  -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
TCU           -  Transmigration Control Unit
GLOSSARY
Adat          -  Body of traditional law
Alang-alang   -  (Imperata cylindrica) a coarse grass which establishes itself
after slash and burning operations
Bupati        -  The District Chief Executive
Desa          -  Village
Dukuh         -  A group of 25-30 houses within a village
Hak Pakai     -  Individuals right of use or exploitation of assigned land
Hak Milik     -  Right to full ownership of land
Kabuptaten    -  District
Kecamatan     -  Subdistrict
Kiosk         -  A small village warehouse (about 20 tons) for fertilizer
MIarga        -  A community grouping under traditional (Adat) law
Puskesmas     -  Community health center
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



INDONESIA: APPRAISAL OF TRANSMlIGRATION II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . .. .  .  .  .    .    . . . . . . . . . . .  .   1
General .*.*.*. .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   1
The Agricultural and Rural Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Development Strategies.                                      . . .  2
Transmigration. ..                                              .     5
Project Formulation.. . . 8
2. THE PROJECT AREA .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Location   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    13
Climate                   ...13
Topography and Soils  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Land Use and Tenure               ...15
Population  . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .                             16
Agricultural Production              ...16
Existing Infrastructure and Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
3.  THE PROJECT .                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Project Works               ..23
Agricultural Development            ..25
Physical Development.... . . . . 26
Village Development.. .  28
Settler Services ..                                                  29
Community Development . . . . . . .  .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Investigations and Designs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
M4onitoring and Evaluation             . . . . . . . ..34
Consulting Services .35
Status of Engineering .37
Implementation Schedule.. . . . . 38
Cost Estimates ... . . . . . . . 39
Financing .40
Procurement.. . . . . . . . . . .  40
Disbursements                       . .. 41
Accounts and Audits.. 42
Environmental Effects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
General Organizational Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Project Management ..                                                 46
Training  ..................... .....   49



Page No.
Agricultural Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Operation and Maintenance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
5.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION   .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . 59
Cropping Patterns   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .   . . . . .    . 59
Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Cropping Calendar   . . . . . .   .......  .   . . . . . . .  61
Drying, Processing and Storage                       . . .  .     . . 61
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS. PRICES. FARM INCOMES AND PROJECT CHARGES  . . . 64
Market Prospects  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . 64
Prices  . . .  .  ...  ....  ...  .  ....  ...  .  ....  ....  ....  .  ....  .....  66
Farm Incomes  . . . . .. .  .  .    . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .   .  67
Project Charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..68. .  .  ..  68
7.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  73
8.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . 82
List of Tables in Main Reort
1.1   Official Transmigrants Settled  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .   .   5
2.1   Proposed Sites for Development  . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .   .  13
2.2   Rainfall Data for Project Sites . . . . . . . . . .   .   .          20
2.3   Monthly Water Balance at Settlement Sites . . . . . . . . . . . 21
2.4   Area of Land Forms in Proposed Sites . . . . . . . . .   . . . . 22
2.5   Percentage of Land of Different Slope Classes Within Each
Land Form, Excluding Swamps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
3.1   Consulting Services . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
3.2   Project Cost Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
4.1   Seeds and Fertilizer Packages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
4.2   DGFCA:  Annual Agricultural Inputs, Requirements  . . . . . . . 57
5.1   Cropping Patterns and Production. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
6.1   Price Structure for Food Crops and Fertilizer . . . . . . . . .  69
6.2   Input and Output Price Summary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  70
6.3   Summary of Farm Budgets ..    .       .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . 71
6.4   Rent Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  72
7.1   Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full
Project Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  78
7.2   Total Monthly Crop Labor Requirements . . . . . . .           . . .  79
7.3   Economic Costs and Benefits . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .  .  .  .   .  80
7.4   Sensitivity Analysis. .        . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  .    81



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
ANNEXES
1.   Cost Estimates, Expected Price Increases, Schedule of Expenditures,
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds, Cost Allocation, Estimated
Schedule of Disbursements, Civil Works Quantities, Unit Prices and
Costs, Breakdown of Costs of Consulting Services, Agricultural Supporting
Services - Equipment List
2.   Crop and Farm Budgets
3.   Schedule of Early Events
4.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
List of Figures
3.1 Implementation Schedule
3.2  Quantities for Main Items of Implementation Schedule
4.1 Project Organization Chart
5.1 Proposed Cropping Calendar
Map IBRD 13914: Indonesia Second Transmigration Project






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TRANSMIGRATION II
1. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      As a major step in the implementation of its transmigration program
in the Third Five-Year Plan, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested
Bank Group assistance to resettle approximately 30,000 families from Java and
Bali on four sites along the Trans-Sumatra Highway in the province of Jambi.
Assistance has also been requested to upgrade the condition of about 4,000
families already settled at one other site in the area. The project would
contain provisions for land development, basic infrastructure, selection and
transport of settlers to the site, housing, subsistence packages, and support-
ing agricultural services. The project also proposes assistance to the GOI
to improve overall management capacity, monitoring and evaluation of the
entire transmigration program, and the planning and preparation of future
projects.
1.02      The regional framework for development along the Trans-Sumatra
Highway was outlined in the South Sumatra Regional Study carried out by
Bonn University and Robert R. Nathan Associates. The United Kingdom Overseas
Development Ministry (ODM) complemented the regional study with detailed
resource investigations, identification of project sites, and the preparation
of outline physical plans for development. The Directorate General of
Transmigration (DGT), in the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration and the
Directorate General of Highways (DGH) in the Ministry of Public Works
prepared site plans, implementation schedules and bidding documents for the
sites proposed by this project. This report is based on the material contained
in the above studies and on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. R. Sadove, S. Takahashi, J. Greenfield, F. Lowenstein, A. Menkir, N.
Owens, Ms. N. Farmer and Ms. G. Davis which visited Indonesia in February and
July 1978, as well as the work of Messrs. M. Saddington and J. Caparas who
visited Indonesia in October 1978 and prepared the appraisal report.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Major Issues.  The major issues facing the agricultural and rural
sector in Indonesia are:  the need to create productive employment oppor-
tunities to raise the incomes of the rural poor; the need to increase domestic
food supply to keep pace with rising demand; the need to expand production
of agricultural exports, particularly smallholder tree crops; and the need
to ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's varied land, water and
other natural resources. These issues are all interrelated. Their solution



would necessarily involve complex and sometimes innovative technical and
organizational approaches, along with attendant risks that must be recognized
and accepted if programs are to be developed to deal with Indonesia's problems
on the requisite scale. The risks of action must be weighed against the
risks of inaction in the face of widespread poverty and underemployment,
growing food import requirements, and ecological damage caused by insufficient
control of deforestation in the most densely populated areas.
1.04      Role and Performance of the Sector.  Although the contribution of
agriculture to GDP and exports has declined during the last 15 years, the
rural sector continues to be of overwhelming importance to the vast majority
of the Indonesian people in terms of employment, incomes and food production.
Some 80% of the country's 135.5 million people /1 live in rural areas. With
the exception of oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by smallholder
production; there are some 14.4 million smallholders producing subsistence
and cash crops on 14.2 million ha and 1,800 large estates occupying 2.2 mil-
lion ha. Between 1972 and 1977 the growth rate of agricultural production,
although uneven, averaged 3.7% p.a. while total GDP grew at 7.1% p.a.
Although agricultural performance in 1977, particularly rice production,
had been disappointing resulting in heavy rice imports (2.3 million tons in
1977/78) the 1978 crop was much improved. Nevertheless, Indonesian rice
production continues to be plagued by inadequate and untimely rainfall on
Java, and by pest and disease damage. In view of the critical role of agri-
culture, as the main source of household income for over half of all Indonesians,
any slowdown in agricultural growth takes on considerable social significance.
1.05      Development Problems and Potentials.  In Java, the cultivable land
is almost fully utilized and in some areas, agricultural land use already
exceeds ecologically safe limits. In 1976 about 82 million people lived in
Java which has 45% of the cropped area but only 7% of the country's total
land area. About one-third of Java's rural population is landless and a
large proportion cannot support themselves on incomes from their own farms.
Outside Java there are large areas of unused cultivable land less fertile
than those in Java, and other natural resources to be exploited. While the
inhabitants of these islands do not have high standards of living, they are
generally better off than many in Java.
Development Strategies
1.06      Employment.  Perhaps the single most important challenge facing the
Indonesian Government is to guide and structure the development process in
such a way that the creation of new opportunities for gainful employment does
at least keep pace with the growth of the labor force. The changes associated
with modernization in rural Java are generally labor-saving, so that farming
is increasingly becoming a part-time activity. Modern manufacturing and
services have been unable to absorb the incremental labor force. Successful
/1 Estimate for mid-1978 based on Inter-censal Population Survey of March
1976.



locally administered public rural works programs (INPRES), may be difficult
to expand due to limited budget and implementation capacity. Future employ-
ment strategy will therefore include labor-intensive export industries
and small-scale rural enterprises, producing for the domestic market. The
recent devaluation of the rupiah has underlined the Government's intentions.
There may also be potential for more productive agricultural employment
through increased cropping intensity and a shift to higher value crops and
livestock, including fruits and vegetables grown on house compounds.
1.07      Food Crops.  Despite impressive achievements in rice production, the
past decade has seen a continuing decline in Indonesia's food self-sufficiency.
Between 1968 and 1977, the composite trend growth rates of domestic food
calorie production and availability were approximately 3.2% and 3.7%, respec-
tively. /1 These growth rates reflect a growing import dependence on rice,
sugar, wheat and recently coconut oil, as well as a reduction or disappearance
of maize, cassava, meat and coconut product exports. After three years of
declining growth rate in rice production due to a combination of poor weather,
disease and pest problems, 1978 has shown a large increase in output (over
10%), but import requirements in 1978/79, though much lower than in 1977/78
were still about 6% of total domestic consumption. Comparison of plausible
food supply and demand scenarios suggests the likelihood of increasing import
requirements of basic foods and especially of rice, wheat, sugar, coconut oil
and possibly maize. There is an urgent need for a comprehensive food production
and consumption strategy. In the case of rice, with the substantial completion
of irrigation rehabilitation, the recent shift in emphasis towards extension
of irrigated areas and swamp drainage projects will probably slow annual
average yield improvements as less productive land has to be brought into
production. However, the potential for increasing fertilizer and insecticide
consumption and for improving the local performance of the most recent IRRI
varieties, suggests that an annual rate of growth of rice production of around
3.5% is nevertheless feasible through 1985. The recent devaluation has
provided significant additional room for further rice producer price increases
aimed at stimulating supply. While slower growth in rice productivity is
anticipated, a comparison of yields of secondary crops in a number of countries
suggests that these crops offer considerable potential marketing and other
support services, the rate of growth of secondary crop production could
probably be raised from 1.6% to 3.5% p.a. A gradual shift in the overall food
production and consumption pattern from rice to the secondary crops would
assist low-income farmers in unirrigated areas and reduce the cost and risks
associated with excessive rice import-dependency.
1.08      Tree Crops.  The Government has embarked on a major effort to
develop smallholder tree crops outside Java as part of its transmigration
and national rubber and coconut replanting programs. The objective is to
improve production on existing blocks while developing large areas of new
land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
/1 The rice trend production growth rate was about 3.5% and the composite
trend for the 5 main secondary staples (maize-, cassava, peanuts, sweet
potatoes, and soybeans) was 1.6%.



land for settlement. One of the Government's main approaches has been to use
public estate companies to plant tree crops on land to be settled by local
landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide a range of
services including planting material, land clearing and planting, inputs, and
processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders. This approach is
well taken in view of Indonesia's scarce managerial and technical capabilities.
1.09      The Role of the Government.  The capacity of the Indonesian
Government to plan and implement agricultural and rural development programs
has generally improved over the past decade. However, future programs
responsive to the Government's stated objectives will necessarily be more                   J
complex than those which the Government has followed up to now. They will
require closely coordinated "packages" of research, extension, inputs,
credit, land development, transportation, processing and marketing improve-
ments. Multiagency integrated area development programs in Java and land
settlement schemes in the Other Islands would require stronger field organiza-
tions of Government line agencies and local governmental authorities, as well
as new administrative arrangements. With the more complex organizational
requirements of future programs, implementation capacity is likely to become
the limiting factor in Indonesia's economic and social development. It is
therefore of utmost importance that the Government continue its efforts to
strengthen the key rural development institutions.
1.10      Bank Group Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the
Bank Group and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed
for the rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis
to be given to different investments and on the technical design of some
projects, such differences are not profound and are likely to be resolved
with further analysis and dialogue.
1.11      The Bank Group has been, and should continue to be, involved in a
broad range of agricultural and rural activities in Indonesia. Since the
first irrigation credit in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural and rural lending to include support for estate and smallholder
tree crops, fertilizer production and distribution, sugar estates, support
services, transmigration, livestock and fisheries. An integrated rural
development project is currently being appraised. Of the three credits
closed within the last year (Estates I, Irrigation I and Pusri Fertilizer)
all showed excellent rates of return ranging from 25% to 33%, as calculated
by the Bank Group's Operations Evaluation Department during project performance
audits. Taking 1974 as base year, Bank Group financed projects will contri-
bute almost 60% of the increase in palm oil output by 1980, about 16% of
incremental sugar production and 6% of incremental rice and rubber. Four
continuing trends in the Bank Group agricultural lending to Indonesia are:
(a) a shift from rehabilitation to new development activities; (b) a shift
from support of state enterprises to direct support of smallholders; (c)
increased emphasis on rainfed systems; and (d) greater emphasis on development
of the Other Islands. All these trends are consistent with the Government's
changing policies.



-5-
Transmigration
1.12      Past Program Performance.  The Indonesian transmigration program is
one of the the largest organized resettlement efforts in the world. Since
1905 successive Governments have sponsored the migration of poor farmers from
the overcrowded islands of Java and Bali to relatively underutilized neigh-
boring islands - particularly Sumatra. All told, Government programs
have transferred nearly a million settlers and an estimated 2 million Javanese
residing in the Other Islands are there as a direct result of Government
resettlement and associated population growth. If spontaneous migrants are
included it is estimated that the total number of Javanese in the Other Islands
is about 5 million.
Table 1.1: OFFICIAL TRANSMIGRANTS SETTLED
Annual rate
of settlement
Actual      Persons       Families          (families)
1905-36     70,000         14,000              450
1937-41    135,000         27,000           6,750
1947-65    425,000         85,000           3,864
1969-74    182,000         36,400           7,280
1974-78    220,000         54,100          13,925
Total   1,032,000        216,500            2,965
1.13      At the turn of the century the impetus for migration or "coloni-
zation" stemmed both from the desire to relieve population pressures and
thereby reduce social tensions in Java and the need to expand the labor force
in the sparsely populated Outer Islands. By 1928 the Dutch had resettled
about 15,000 families under the "colonization program", and a large number of
Javanese had been recruited for work on rubber estates in Sumatra.  Following
the collapse of the estate sector during the depression the Government
embarked on a low-cost resettlement effort in which settlers were provided
with transport and 1.0 ha of land but relied on harvest wages, friends and
relatives to establish themselves once on site. Between 1937-41 the Govern-
ment moved 27,000 families on this system, nearly twice the number settled in
the preceding 30 years.
1.14      Following World War II, the Government resumed the transmigration
program with ambitious targets but limited financial support. Under these
circumstances presettlement preparation was poor. Sites, selected from
lands volunteered by the provinces, were often remote and inaccessible.
Villages themselves were inappropriately located and occasionally removed
from their agricultural lands. Without adequate policies for the compensation



of indigenous farmers, land tenure conflicts and enmity between ethnic groups
occurred. Migrants, who were generally settled on 0.25 ha houselots, spent
most of the first year clearing their agricultural land and were frequently
below self-sufficiency when their subsistence supplies ceased. Productivity
was also limited by the fact that prior to the early 1970s, most migrants
were without access to agricultural inputs such as fertilizer and good
seed, and were unfamiliar with cropping strategies suitable to their land.
In spite of these problems, however, the hard work and initiative of the
settlers produced many settlements which provided viable alternatives to
subsistence in Java.
1.15      During the first two Five-Year Development Plans (1969-79) the
goals of the program were shifted; the Government began to emphasize the
contribution of transmigrants to regional development and it required that
settler welfare be improved. Bilateral assistance for transmigration began
in 1971 and expanded after 1974, and with increased funding, project prepa-
ration improved. Even with improved project performance, however, two main
problems continued to affect the size and effectiveness of the program.
First, sector coordination was inadequate. Government ministries and depart-
ments with priorities of their own paid scant attention to the needs of
transmigration and when given implementing responsibilities these agencies
failed to coordinate effectively with the Directorate General of Transmigration
(DGT). Second, the resources of the DGT itself were severely strained. The
DGT alone was responsible for planning and implementing land clearance, road
construction, infrastructure development, and resettlement; it arranged for
the provision of land titles, health services, agricultural extension and
schools. With limited manpower and a small budget this complex effort had
long taxed the resources of the DGT, but between 1974 and 1979 an attempt to
simultaneously expand the scale of the program and sophistication of all
components resulted in increasing target shortfalls.
1.16      Confronted by ongoing management problems and the continuing
contradiction between size of targets and their shortfalls, the Government
undertook a massive reorganization of the transmigration program in prepara-
tion for Repelita III. This reorganization culminated in the issuing of
Presidential Decree No. 26 dated August 31, 1978. Under the new arrangement,
responsibility for project implementation has been transferred to the agencies
normally responsible for each sector: in future projects, roads are to be
constructed by the Ministry of Public Works, cadastral surveys undertaken by
the Ministry of Home Affairs, and resettlement conducted by the Ministry of
Transmigration and Manpower. Agricultural development is allocated to the
Ministries of Agriculture and Trade and Cooperatives while other agencies
(e.g., Telecommunications) are involved as needed. All agencies are
coordinated by a newly appointed Junior Minister of Transmigration who is
responsible to the Minister of Transmigration and Manpower, and the President,
and who is assisted by special representatives of each of the implementing
agencies.
1.17      Recent public statements by Indonesian Government officials indicate
that transmigration would be a central feature of the Third Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (Repelita III, 1979-84). Government has begun preparation for moving
500,000 families, mostly landless farm laborers and small part-time farmers



-7-
from Java, to frontier areas mainly in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi.
This is a sevenfold increase over settlement rates achieved during the Second
Five-Year Plan (Repelita II). The problems involved in making this quantum
jump are enormous, but the Government is convinced that failure to accelerate
the rate of Other Island development would jeopardize the national goals of
providing jobs, raising per capita incomes, increasing food crop production,
promoting national integration and achieving a better balanced and sustained
use of natural resources in the country as a whole. Bank Group contributions
to this effort are envisioned both in support of specific projects and in
overall program development.
1.18      Transmigration I.  In January of 1974, at the request of the
Indonesian Government, FAO undertook a study to identify a possible trans-
migration project for IBRD assistance. In 1976, as a result of this study,
the Bank undertook the first transmigration project (Loan 1318-IND) intended
to upgrade 12,000 settler families at Way Abung and establish a new community
for 4,500 settlers at Baturaja. Both of these schemes are located in Sumatra
in rainfed areas of low agricultural productivity - areas considered typical
of the marginal lands in the Other Islands available for future projects.
Since existing migrants who received 2.0 ha of undeveloped land were found to
be economically depressed at the time of appraisal, GOI decided to provide
new migrants with 5.0 ha of land, of which 0.5 ha was clean cleared and
1.0 ha in immature block-planted rubber. Migrants also were to receive draft
animals and agricultural inputs aimed at promoting early agricultural surplus.
Both projects were intended to test the assumption that viable migrant
communities could be established in areas of rainfed agriculture in the Other
Islands.
1.19      After nearly two years, several components in the rehabilitation
scheme are behind schedule, particularly at Way Abung, but settler welfare in
the new community of Baturaja is encouraging. The 400 families in Unit I had
nearly 1.0 ha per family in agricultural production /1 and a survey of 38
families indicated first year incomes of Rp 225,000 (US$542)/2, one-third of
which was from off-farm work.  This is above the minimum subsistence level
defined at appraisal as Rp 198,000 (US$477), and it is substantially above
annual farm incomes in Java which are estimated at Rp 110,000 (US$265) in the
stratum from which migrants come. These higher incomes have resulted because
the settlers have farmed more intensively and brought into production larger
areas than projected at appraisal, and because project construction has
provided considerable off-farm work opportunities. There are now 1,300
sponsored families in Baturaja and as evidence of the relative attraction of
this community, the first 400 families have attracted 485 spontaneous settlers
in their first 18 months on site.
1.20      While migrants in Baturaja are doing well, overall project per-
formance is behind schedule. Weak organization and management are the
major factors limiting project progress, a general problem exacerbated by
the introduction of new organizational arrangements under Transmigration I
/1 Rubber will not be ready for tapping until year 6.
/2 These incomes have been converted at the then ruling official exchange
rate of Rp 415 = US$1.00



unfamiliar to the DGT. The reorganization of the overall transmigration
program which was in process throughout the entire start-up period also caused
conflicts in authority and resulted in delays in project implementation and in
the timely release of funds. Therefore, while settler welfare was significantly
improved, the experience of Transmigration I focussed attention on the need to
develop the institutional infrastructure upon which an expanded program would
be based.
Project Formulation
1.21      Throughout the history of transmigration a number of justifications
have been put forward in support of it, the most important of these which are
to:
(a) alleviate population pressures in Java;
(b) create employment opportunities;
(c) increase food crop production;
(d) increase tree crop production;
(e) improve the living conditions and income of impoverished
landless laborers from Java;
(f) promote balanced regional development throughout Indonesia;
(g) populate the empty regions of the country; and
(h) strengthen national unity.
All of the above considerations have played a role in the transmigration
program but, even today, different degrees of emphasis are given to each
by various Government agencies, as well as bilateral and multilateral
donors.
1.22      There are also technical and policy issues on which differences of
opinion exist. These issues were examined carefully by Bank Group staff
during a review of the Government's transmigration program and the different
stages of project preparation. Given the complex nature of these issues and
the current state of knowledge, there can be no certainty that the approach
proposed under this project would successfully resolve all of them. However,
the staff is convinced that appropriate precautionary measures have been
introduced and that on balance the proposed project is technically sound.
1.23      The following is a summary of the main issues and the manner in
which they have been addressed under the proposed project:
(a) Land Use for Food Crop Production. Results from research work
in Sumatra, as well as examination of existing settlements
confirm that, with proper soil conservation and the application of
farm inputs, sustained food crop cultivation on marginal soils in
the Other Islands is feasible. As indicated in para. 7.12, the
Government's ability to provide adequate and timely farm inputs
and supporting services poses a certain risk to sustained culti-
vation, but this risk has been judged to be acceptable. On the
question of the type of land to be opened - primary forest (which
minimizes land tenure problems) or grasslands (which preserves the
forest but leads to conflicts with local farmers) - while the use



-9-
of grasslands has the dual advantage of reclaiming unused waste
land and preserving valuable timber land, in instances where
forest land is located along main transport arteries (as is the
case in the proposed project), opening up of such land is considered
reasonable.
(b) Land Clearing. In assessing the appropriate methods, that is, mechan-
ical vs. manual, for opening new lands without damaging the soil
or destroying valuable timber, and whether such methods should
maximize speed of implementation or employment, the most advantageous
approach was found to be a combination of both methods. Under the
proposed project, all timber at least 30 cm in diameter at breast
height would be cut by hand or chain saw, while the clearing of all
remaining timber and the windrowing would be done mechanically.
The initial land clearing would be limited to about one-third of
the settler's holding.
(c) Appropriate Target Incomes, Farm Size and Village Plans (for example,
Nuclear vs. Linear). With several different development modes
having been adopted for settlements in the Other Islands, it is
impractical to adopt a uniform target income or farm size. The
current Government policy of providing settlers on rainfed schemes
with 3.5 ha farms which are generally suitable for both food crop
production (2.0 ha) and tree crops (1.5 ha) should enable farmers
to diversify their operations, make full use of available family
labor, and enjoy incomes well above those prevailing in rural Java.
As for village plans, past experience in transmigration settlements
suggests that small blocks of 25 - 50 households, which combine the
features of both nucleated and linear villages, have been well
suited to the social and agricultural requirements of the settlers.
The proposed project will continue to investigate the advantages of
nucleated vs. semi-nucleated settlement.
(d) Government Support to Settlers. On the issue of the degree of finan-
cial support which settlers require, as indicated in para. 1.24, finan-
cial constraints and the desire to accommodate the largest possible
number of settlers must be weighed against the need to ensure the
economic viability of the new settlements. The investment of
$4,250/family under the proposed project would ensure such viability
at an income level somewhat higher than the average rural income.
(e) Interests of Local Population in Settlement Areas, and Promotion of
Spontaneous Migration. Suitable measures to protect the interests
of the local population in sites selected under the proposed project,
as well as measures to attract spontaneous, that is, unsponsored,
settlers, are discussed in para. 1.26 below.
(f) Use of Consultants in the Transmigration Program. In the short
run, because trained manpower is in short supply throughout Indonesia
and there is the additional problem of attracting civil servants on
fixed salaries to work in frontier areas, heavy reliance on consul-
tants is necessary. The proposed project will attempt to correct



- 10 -
this situation by providing training and constructing houses and
other facilities for Government personnel in the settlement areas.
1.24      Recent Government thinking on transmigration therefore may be
summarized as follows: Firstly, there is a need for a massive increase in
the transmigration program. Transmigration can reduce pressures on marginal
lands in the overcrowded Inner Islands and promote regional development in
sending areas; it can absorb a portion of the agricultural labor force
displaced by landlessness and technological change; it can reduce food crop
deficits and increase tree crop exports by bringing unutilized lands into
production; and it can contribute to regional development by attracting
infrastructure and services to sparsely populated areas and creating growth
poles around which future development can take place. Secondly, transmigration
on the scale envisioned by the Government must be done at low investment per
settler. This is largely due to overall budgetary constraints. The Government
recognizes, however, that adequate public sector investments at the initial
stages of the program are necessary to promote settler self-sufficiency,
increase the economic viability of the community and lead to spontaneous
immigration and regional growth.
1.25      These factors have played a pivotal role in formulating the present
project. The shift from settlements such as those in Transmigration I,
which were based partially on tree crop development, to settlements based on
food crops, was both in response to national priorities stressing the need
for increased food crop production (para. 1.07), and in response to the need
to keep project costs low. At the same time, the shift was influenced by the
recent wide availability of fertilizer in Indonesia, by current research work
and field trials on food crop production in rainfed areas, and by the encourag-
ing food crop yields obtained by migrants in Transmigration I. An emphasis
on food crops does not preclude the future development of tree crops in the
area, and the project would anticipate and encourage such diversification
(para. 3.03).
1.26      Project components would also address previous problems in the
sector. Settlement areas located along the Trans-Sumatra Highway would
facilitate access, stimulate marketing, and promote regional development in
line with the recommendations of the South Sumatra Regional Study. Topo-
graphic maps, hydrological surveys and sample site designs carried out in
the project area by a team of experts from the ODM would aid in locating
settlements and facilitate village design and development.  To minimize land
conflict and encourage good relations between ethnic groups, land use surveys
would exclude heavily used indigenous areas from project sites. Government
also would establish procedures for compensating local cultivators for the
loss of productive trees and would reserve land within the settlements for
local groups. Under the proposed project, 1.25 ha of clean cleared land
would be provided to the migrants upon arrival allowing the farmers to
concentrate on tilling rather than clearing their land. In addition, migrants
would receive a productive package consisting of fertilizers, pesticides,
appropriate seed extension advice, and draft animals, which would promote
early surpluses and facilitate investment in production.



- 11 -
1.27      Institutional constraints which have been a primary problem in past
sector performance, also would be addressed in the proposed project. Specific
components would: (a) provide assistance in the recruitment and training of
staff for those agencies most directly involved with the implementation of
transmigration; (b) establish a project coordinator in the office of the
Junior Minister for Transmigration (JMT) to assist in the complex task
of coordination; (c) provide technical assistance to develop procedures for
monitoring overall project preparation, implementation and impact; (d)
provide on-site technical assistance to advise on land development, soil
conservation, agricultural development and benefit monitoring.
1.28      In spite of the desire to keep overall costs low, the Government
and Bank Group agree that the first migrants in frontier areas require
substantial support to become established. For this reason, settlers within
this project would be provided with a productive package intended to promote
the early economic viability of their communities. At the same time the
Government would explore all possible ways to remove existing constraints to
spontaneous migration and to facilitate the movement and transfer of land to
those who do not require full Government support. The Government would also
record the arrival and monitor the progress of spontaneous migrants counting
them both as beneficiaries of their projects and a part of their national
targets. Early figures from Transmigration I suggest this should greatly
reduce the per family cost. The proposed project includes several measures
to encourage spontaneous transmigration.
1.29      Programs Supporting Transmigration.  In addition to providing sup-
port for specific projects, the Bank Group is undertaking to assist the
Government to strengthen, expand and improve national schemes which are vital
to the success of the transmigration program and to ensure that these schemes
include components appropriate for transmigration areas.
(a)  A Regional Planning Project, being prepared for consideration
by the UNDP with the Bank Group acting as the executing agency,
would place transmigration in the context of regional development.
(b)  A proposed Rural Roads Construction and Maintenance Project
would assist provincial governments to construct and maintain
rural roads with components assisting transmigration areas.
(c)  A proposed Project Preparation Loan would plan for the recruitment
and training of personnel and for carrying out the investigations
and studies necessary to support the expanded transmigration
program. When complete it would permit planning for 20 year, 5
year, and immediate program targets.
(d)  The second phase of the National Extension Project, which was
recently appraised and is scheduled for Board presentation in
FY80, would include a specific plan formulated to assist farmers
in producing rainfed food crops in transmigration areas.



- 12 -
(e) The second phase of the National Research Program, which would
proceed concurrently with the Extension Project, would include
research components geared to the needs of the transmigration
program.
(f) A proposed Seeds Project, which is scheduled for Board presentation
in FY81 and is a continuation of an earlier project, would focus
primarily on the needs of transmigrants growing food crops.
(g) A proposed Smallholder Livestock Development Project prepared
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program would provide for the procure-
ment of draft animals presently going to slaughter on Java and
allow their redistribution to migrants in the Outer Islands.
(h) Smallholder tree crops development would continue to be supported
by loans for Nucleus Estates. The proposed Nucleus Estates and'
Smallholders III Project, which is currently being considered by
the Bank Group, would block plant some 28,000 ha of smallholder
rubber for 14,000 families.
Viewed both in terms of its goals and the support systems which it requires,
transmigration is an integral part of the Bank Group lending program within
the agricultural sector.



- 1 3 -
2. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01       The five project area sites are located in Jambi province, Sumatra.
The core of the development area is the 500 km portion of the Trans-Sumatra
Highway (TSH) which runs in a NW-SE direction between Sawah Tambang in West
Sumatra and Lubuk Linggau in South Sumatra. To promote regional development
the Government has designated a 15 km strip on either side of this highway
for transmigration use. Within this area, and with assistance from the
British Ministry of Overseas Development (ODM), the Government has selected
four sites for new development, and one existing site for upgrading.
The five proposed sites have a gross area of 412,500 ha (Map IBRD 13914).
GOI based its selection of the four new sites on accessibility, topography,
soils, land ownership and present land use. The five proposed sites are
listed below:
Table 2.1: PROPOSED SITES FOR DEVELOPMENT
Gross         Existing          New
Site                    area       transmigrants transmigrants
(ha)      -------- (families) -------
Alai Hilir              112,000               -         6,000
Singkut                  48,000           4,000              -
Kuamang Kuning          130,000               -         6,000
Kubang Ujo               40,500               -         8,000
Hitam Ulu                82,000               -        10,000
Total            412,500           4,000        30,000
Climate
2.02       The climate of the region is wet tropical, with a short dry season.
Mean annual rainfall ranges from 2,400 to 3,200 mm, generally increasing from
east to west and north to south. Table 2.2 shows that contrast between
rainfall in the north and south of the overall settlement area; and for three
of the sites /1, and the existing Alai Hilir site, data on the highest and
lowest monthly rainfall, number of rain days and rain per rain-day.
/1  Published ODM studies are presently available for Singkut, Kuamang
Kuning, Kubang Ujo, Hitam Ulu and the existing Alai Hilir site on
the southwestern bank of the Batang Hari. The site called Alai Hilir
which this project would develop lies on the northeastern bank of the
Batang Hari river, opposite the existing Alai Hilir.



- 14 -
The dry period is normally June to August. Table 2.3 gives monthly water
balances. These indicate a water deficit for about five months of the year.
However, the soil water reserve in the crop root zone is estimated at 150 mm,
and in four years out of five a growing season of nine months could be
expected. Using a criterion of 100 mm of rain per month as the lower limit
for upland crop growth, which includes factors for dependability and evapo-
ration, also suggests a nine month growing season. Deep-rooting crops sulch
as established cassava are unlikely to be seriously water deficient even in
the dry season in most years. Generally, there should always be sufficient
soil moisture for a wet season crop, however, some dry season crops could be
lost. Temperature is relatively high and uniform year-round, and does not
constitute a limiting factor to crop growth.  Average monthly maximum
temperatures vary from 290C to 310C, and minimum from 210C to 220C.
Topography and Soils
2.03      The project area lies adjacent to the Barisan mountain range which
forms the spine of West Sumatra. To the east this raange falls off rapidly
into a low dissected plain approximately 150 m above sea level. The main
area in which project sites are located lies east of the Trans-Sumatra
Highway and is classified as predominantly undulating peneplains. These
areas have ample land of less than 8% slope which can be developed for food
cropping. Dissected areas with slopes less than 15% are suitable for the
development of perennial tree crops. Tables 2.4 and 2.5 show" tie perc>eritage
area of land forms at the proposed sites, and the percentage of land of
different slope classes within each land form.
2.04      More than 90% of the region is covered either by a mantle of rela-
tively homogeneous colluvial-volcanogenic drift several meters thick, on
which the soils are derived from the mantle rather than the parent re . ,r'
vy :aLsed alluvial drifts with probable additions, on the older dleposits, of
wind-borne, acid-volcanic dust. The following general description applies
only to the upland soils and not to the peat soils that are found in some
low-lying areas. Under the Indonesian system, the soils of the region are
classified as latosols, red-yellow podzolics and allluvium, with latosols
predominating. Under the USA soils classification, much of the area would be
classed on the boundary of oxisols and ultisols. In most soils, texture
contrast is fairly weak and many of the latosols have good structure and
favorable physical properties.  They could prove to be somewhat less erodible
than the podzolics with sandy surface layers found, for example, in Lampung
province. Texturally, the soils are predominantly clays, the clay fraction
ranging from 45 to 90%.  Porosity is generally good and the soils free
draining. However, under permanent cultivation, the threat of erosion is
still high. The soils are almost uniformly highly acid with a median pH of
4.7. Regarding plant nutrients, they are deficient in nitrogen, extremely
deficient in phosphorus, and possibly low in potassium.  Aluminium toxicity
is a potential threat, and phosphate fixation could prove to be high.
However, soil structure is favorable to plant root formation and with the
addition of regular fertilizer inputs, these soils have good potential for
upland food crop production. To combat the high phosphate fixation, the
initial phosphate application should be heavy.



- 15 -
Land Use and Tenure
2.05      According to the ODI1i reports, present land use at four of the
sites is as shown in the table below. Preliminary information suggests land
use at Alai Ililir is similar to that at Kuamang Kuning.
PRESENT LAND USE
Kuamang        Kubang       Hitam
Singkut    Kuning          Ujo          Ulu
---------------- (% of area) ---------------
Primary dryland forest          56          95            46
Secondary dryland forest        24           1            16
Swamp forest                     9           1            33
Shifting cultivation             4           3             5
Permanent settlement             7           -             -
Total                 100         100           100          100
Primary dryland forest refers to tropical lowland rain forest, predominantly
tropical hardwoods (dipterocarp), typically three-layered, the emergents
reaching 50-60m. The range of tree density with stems greater than 30 cm
diameter at breast height (DBH) is from 75 to 105 stems/ha. Secondary
dryland forest consists of recovery growth from primary dryland forest that
has been previously cleared for shifting cultivation and rubber growing.
Shifting cultivation refers to cleared areas which are being, or have been
used, for annual cropping. Private companies, holding forest concessions
from GOI, are currently logging much of the primary forest areas. While GOI
would prefer to first develop the cleared, shifting cultivation or secondary
dryland forest areas, at present it is constrained from doing this because of
the difficulty of establishing land ownership in these areas. It is thus
developing the primary forest areas which have no or little local settlement,
and where logging companies have removed most of the heavy timber (50 cm DBH
and greater) thus simplifying land clearing.
2.06      In the western parts of Sumatra ultimate authority over land is
held by extended families called marga. During the colonial period the
local people east of the Barisan mountains were consolidated and organized
into territorial units also given the name of marga. These grew in authority
under the Dutch and persist as administrative units to the present day.
Technically the marga has the right to alienate land but traditional use
rights are recognized throughout the area and farmers expect compensation for
the loss of productive trees. Failure to exclude local areas of shifting
cultivation from the project site has led to compensation problems in a
previous project within the area, Sitiung, but Rimbo Bujang, an adjacent
project, has been relatively free of such problems.



- 16 -
Population
2.07      As the proposed settlement sites are mainly primary dryland forest
areas, they have practically no indigenous population. Generally, the
population density (12-18 persons/sq km) of the two districts (kabupatens)
in which the project sites are located is low, even when compared to Jambi
province (22 persons/sq km) or to Sumatra as a whole (44 persons/sq km).  The
DGT has already established several settlements near the proposed project
area sites.  These included Sitiung in West Sumatra province, and Rimbo
Bujang, Alai ililir and Singkut (included in the project) in Jambi province.
2.08      Low population densities reflect a common agricultural adaptation
throughout the area.  Most farmers are located in alluvial areas along the
rivers in order to exploit relatively fertile soils and to use waterways for
transport. These alluvial areas are intensively cultivated and are excluded
from project sites. Behind the areas of permanent cultivation, often within
1 to 2 km of the rivers, are areas of secondary forest consisting of old
rubber trees and dense forest regrowth. Most rubber trees were planted
during the colonial and early post independence period and have low produc-
tivity today. Properly managed rubber plantations are rare. Dispersed within
old rubber areas and the forest adjacent to them are areas of shifting culti-
vation where farmers rely on field rotation (slash and burn) to control weeds
and maintain soil fertility. Still further from the rivers are the vast areas
of primary forest within which the project sites are generally located. A
similar pattern of development is beginning to emerge along the new highway
and numerous logging roads in newly developed timber concessions.
2.09      Although overall population densities in the area are low, popu-
lation densities on agricultural land rise to 162 persons/sq km in project
area kabupaten. Under these conditions a growing number of farmers in the
river valleys do not cultivate land but make their living by tapping the
rubber of others, and there is now considerable competition for accessible
land. For these reasons many families in the area have expressed a desire to
be relocated within project sites as local transmigrants, and a new Government
policy requires that 10% of all places in transmigrant areas be reserved for
local settlers.
Agricultural Production
2.10      Local farmers produce a mixture of annual and perennial crops.
A survey in the project region showed the average farm holding to be around
4.75 ha of which 0.6 ha was bunded rice production (sawah), 0.7 ha rainfed
(upland) crops, 0.2 ha house garden, and 3.25 ha tree crops. The existing
transmigrant families at Singkut have about 2.5 ha per family, and have
cleared, or are in the process of clearing, about 1.0 ha per family for
upland food crop production. They have also established house gardens.
Their cropping patterns and yields are described in para 5.02.



- 17 -
Existing Infrastructure and Services
2.11      Existing Infrastructure.  Although road development is penetrating
inland into forest regions and an increasing amount of traffic is moving from
north to south along the Trans-Sumatra Highway, the natural waterways provided
the initial access into the area and continue to be important commercial
arteries. The Batang Hari river and its tributaries flow through the project
area to the city of Jambi and the sea.  These rivers are navigable year round
and in the rainy season the Batang Hari is capable of handling 100-ton vessels
as far inland as Muara Tebo (200 km upstream), a project area port. Due to
the poor condition of the roads and bridges most of the rubber and lumber
produced in the area is still shipped out by water.
2.12      Other than the 200 km segment of the Trans-Sumatra Highway between
Sawah Tambang and Muara Bungo, most roads in the project region are in poor
condition. Government figures for Jambi alone show 225 km of asphalt roads
in the entire province which are listed in good condition, and another
2,000 km of gravel and dirt roads of which only 20% are in good condition.
The narrow, winding road linking Padang in West Sumatra with Sawah Tambang
is now being upgraded under the World Bank financed Highway Betterment
Program, and would be completed by mid 1979. An additional 300 km segment
of the Trans-Sumatra Highway from Muara Bungo to Lubuk Linggau is also
scheduled for upgrading with Japanese financial assistance, as are the road
from Muara Bungo to the port of Jambi, and the road from Sarolangun to
the M4uara Bungo-Jambi road. The first two of these roads are presently under
tender evaluation, and work would commence on them in the first quarter of
1979, taking about three years to complete. An assurance was obtained
that the road running south from MIuara Bungo through Bangko to Sarolangun,
and the Singkut site, the road southeast from Muara Bungo to the port of
Jambi, and the connecting road from Sarolangun to the Muara Bungo-Jambi road
would be improved to a standard to permit the effective and timely imple-
mentation of the project by June 30, 1982.
2.13      Telecommunication services are restricted to telephone connections
via the domestic Palapa Satellite between Jakarta, Padang, Jambi and Palembang.
In the proposed project areas only the district (Bupati) or subdistrict chief
has a phone connection to the Governor's office in Jambi. Site managers of
existing transmigration projects now working at Sitiung, Rimbo Bujang and
Singkut must rely on single side-band (SSB) radio comnunications with the DGT
office in Jambi.
2.14      Existing Services.  Jambi province is divided into five adminis-
trative districts (kabupatens), and the project is located in two of these,
Bungo Tebo and Sarolangun Bangko. Iduara Bungo, located in the heart of the
project area, is the district capital of Bungo Tebo, and the city of Bangko
is the district capital of Sarolangun Bangko. Each of these districts is
divided into administrative units or subdistricts called kecamatans. At the
present time none of the project sites lies within a single administrative
unit and in order to simplify organization and management a proposal has been



- 18 -
made to establish each site as a separate kecamatan. This would be reviewed
during project implementation. All government officials down to the kecamatan
level are paid directly by the national government.
2.15      Each kabupaten capital has branch offices of most provincial
services involved in the project, that is, health, education, trans-
migration, public works, agriculture.  In some cases services are also
found at the kecamatan level. In general, however, services to the project
area are extremely meager.
(a)  Health - each kecamatan has a public health center (Puskesmas)
and a number of smaller clinics. The doctor-patient ratio is
about 1:40,000 and there are no hospitals within the project
area.
(b)  Education - most villages have elementary schools but junior and
senior high schools are generally found only in kecamatan and
kabupaten centers. In 1977/78 junior high schools were begun in
the existing transmigrant projects of Singkut and Rimbo Bujang.
(c)  Agricultural facilities - storage facilities for fertilizers
are limited and exist only in scattered villages. The company
P.T. Pusri is responsible for fertilizer and pesticide distribution
to the kabupaten level, and at present the company P.T. Tawison
distributes fertilizer below the kabupaten level. Neither P.T.
Pusri nor P.T. Tawison have their own storage facilities in Jambi.
(d)  Marketing - small markets exist both in local villages and existing
transmigrant settlements. These primarily facilitate an internal
exchange of goods. Larger markets exist in kecamatan and kabupaten
centers but transport costs between transmigrant settlements and
district centers are extremely high and limit farmer participation
in the marketing process. Cooperatives (KUD) have been begun in
both indigenous and transmigrant villages but so far have very
limited effect on price. The Government rice procurement agency
(BULOG/DOLOG) has warehouses located in Mluaro Bungo (Bungo Tebo
kabupaten) and Sijunjung (Sawah Lunto/Sijunjung kabupaten).
(e)  Processing - little processing capability is available in the area
and even rice mills are few. There is no cassava processing and
rubber must be shipped to Padang.  Several large lumber mills are
now in operation.
(f)  Extension - within the project area kabupatens extension services
operate for food crops, tree crops, animal husbandry, fisheries
and forestry. 14ost are staffed only at the kabupaten or kecamatan
headquarter level, and do not have the resources to effectively
carry out their duties in the field.



- 19 -
2.16      Impressions of severe constraints on infrastructure are confirmed
by Government statistics. As the chart below indicates, even within a poorly
developed province such as Jambi, the kabupatens, within which the project
sites are located, have the least developed villages in the region.
Jambi                                       % Village by Class /a
Kabupaten                  Population         1         2          3
1.  Sarolangun Bangko /b           172,745         63.6       33.7       2.7
2.  Bungo Tebo /b                  167,061          46.5      49.5       3.7
3.  Batang Hari                    183,803          39.6      55.3       5.1
4.  Kerinci                        219,646          28.3      57.0      14.7
5.  Tanjung Jabung                 273,030          23.3      66.7      10.0
6.  City of Jambi                  193,568           5.0      76.2      18.8
Total                    1,209,853         43.9       49.4       6.7
/a Village classification is based largely on existing infrastructure:
(1) Poorest class of village, no ability to improve conditions
without outside help.
(2) Some developed resources, some self-help possible.
(3) Villages which are essentially self-sufficient.
/b Project area kabupaten.



Table 2.2: RAINFALL DATA FOR PROJECT SITES
(mm)
Jan       Feb       Mar      Apr       May       Jun       Jul       Aug        Sep      Oct        Nov       Dec      Total
Mean Monthly Rainfall in the
North and South of the Region
North /a                                 280       240       280       270       210       130       110       140       180       260       310       330     2,740
South                                    350       290       300       300       250       140       140       170       220       290       330       360      3,140
Monthly Rainfall, Number of
Rain-days, and Rainfall/Rain-day
Alai Hilir /b
Rainfall  - highest                   340        273      327       343       219        141       128      178       184       262        360       346     2,915
- lowest                   290        184      215       228       174        91        88       107       150       213        246      267      2,351
Rain-days - highest                   16.4      13.6      15.4     14.8      11.0        7.5      6.4       9.4       9.6       13.1      15.4      18.1      143.7
- lowest                   9.6        7.2       7.7       7.4      5.4       3.8       3.4       4.7       6.5       9.1        9.6       9.2      83.6
Intensity - highest                  29.1      25.6      27.9      33.0      32.2      24.0      32.9      30.2      25.7      27.4      29.1      29.2           -
- lowest                  16.9      17.1      18.7      18.0      19.5      19.5      16.8      16.2      16.9      18.1       18.9      19.1          -
Singkut /c
Rainfall  - highest                    362       372       375      362       307        174       142       193      226        281       360       377     3,224
- lowest                   316       349       296       256       218        128       125      139        193      253        319       313     2,867
Rain-days - highest                   18.1      15.4      17.2      16.1      13.4       9.5       7.7       9.5      11.5      14.7      17.8      20.7      165.8
- lowest                  14.4      12.9      12.7      12.2      10.0       6.5       6.3       6.6       9.2      11.5       13.9      14.6      133.7
Intensity - highest                  23.3      24.1      25.9      24.1      22.9      19.7      20.6      21.1      22.8      22.3       24.3      25.0          -
- lowest                  18.1      17.7      21.7      20.6      21.4      16.8      15.8      17.6      18.9       18.1      20.2      17.5          -
Kuamang Kuning /d
Rainfall  - highest                    316       256       322       295       213       135       119       181       176       264       308       300      2,878
- lowest                   256        208      262       223        164       112        88      118        154       195       255       267      2,240
Rain-days - highest                  16.1       13.6      14.3      13.0      10.0       7.5       6.4       9.4       9.6      12.8      14.5      15.7      142.9
- lowest                  13.3      10.3      11.8      10.5       8.9       5.6       6.0       6.9        8.5      11.2      13.0      13.6      121.3
Intensity - highest                  19.6      22.2      22.6      23.9      22.7      20.2       19.5      21.0      18.6      20.6      21.2      21.0          -
- lowest                  16.3      18.8      22.2      21.2      18.4      18.0      14.7      15.9       16.7      16.5      17.7      18.7          -
Kubang Ujo /e
Rainfall  - highest                    395       296       352       376       315       202       161       212       261       313       368       394      3,593
- lowest                    309       272       285      305       208        135       106       136       189       275       326       350      3,019
Rain-days - highest                   19.0      16.1      17.6      17.4      17.7      13.7      11.3      14.2      14.0      15.1      17.6      19.9      185.4
- lowest                  13.9       12.2     11.5      10.7       9.2        6.6       5.5       6.1       9.3      11.5      13.1      15.6      125.1
Intensity - highest                  25.1      24.5      26.1      28.5      22.6      20.9       19.9      22.7      20.3      24.3      24.9      25.1          -
- lowest                  16.3       16.9     18.9      21.6      17.2       14.7      14.2      14.9      16.1      18.4      18.7      19.8          -
/a  Unweighted means of the nine rainfall stations north of Rantau Panjang and of the 11 rainfall stations south of it, rounded to nearest 10 mm (ODM
project report no. 13, 1977).
/b  ODM project report no. 21, 1977, for the existing Alai Hilir site, situated on the Batang Hari river's southwestern bank.
/c  ODM project report no. 23, 1977.
/d  ODM project report no. 40, 1978.
/e ODM project report no. 50, 1978.



- 21 -
Table 2.3: tiONTHLY WATER BALANCE AT SETTLELiENT SITES
(mm)
Jan   E'eb   Miar   Apr  flay   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
Alai Hilir /a
Rainfall            277   226   288   267   214   117   114   107   173   259   336   340
Et                  116   126   126   127   131   127   129   119   116   125   124   122
Balance             161   100   162   140    83   -10   -15   -12    57   134   212   218
Singkut /b
Rainfall            257   186   262   216   133    66    79    90   139   183   244   231
Et                  132   120   137   138   149   147   161   158   141   158   137   132
Balance             125    66   125    78   -16   -81   -82   -63    -2    25   107    99
Kuamang Kuning /b
Rainfall            156   159   206   174   117    62    61    79    89   135   188   216
Et                  135   128   158   150   156   150   160   162   158   164   148   158
Balance              21    31    48    24   -39   -88   -99   -83   -69   -29    40    58
Kubang Ujo /b
Rainfall            257   186   262   216   133    66    79    90   139   183   244   231
Et                  134   128   150   149   152   146   155   156   152   154   141   149
Balance             123    58   112    67   -19   -80   -76   -66   -13    29   103    82
/a  Source for the four sites the same as for Table 2.2.  Based on mean rainfall.
/b  Based on rainfall expected four years out of five.



- 22 -
Table 2.4: AREA OF LAND FORMS IN PROPOSED SITES /a
Steeply     Strongly    Moderately                           Riverine
dissected   dissected   dissec(-ef:l   7adllating            flood
peneplains  peneplains  peneplains  peneptl.;:' Tlrraces  plains
---------------------------- .(  of area)--------------------------
Singkut             2           -             33          38           8        4
Kuamang Kuning      2           23             28         35          10         1
Kubang Ujo          -            5            15          65              15/b
Source:  OD'f project reports no. 21, 23 (1977); 40, 50 (1978).
/a  Excluding swamps.  Information for Hitam Ulu will he '41y2illd in the buff
cover report.
/b Terraces and riverine flood plains classed together.
Table 2.5: PERCENTAGE OF LAND OF DIFFERENT SLOPE CLASSES
WITHIN EACH LAND FORM, EXCLUDING SWAMPS
_________  Slop~eclas
0-8%            8-25%             25-55%
------------ (% of area)-------.
Peneplain - steeply dissected         0-5             40-60             40-60
- strongly dissected       5-30            30-70              5-40
- moderately dissected   30-60             40-70              0-10
- undulating              80-100            0-20              0-5
Terraces                             90-100            0-10              0-5
Riverine flood plain                 95-100            0-5                 0
Source:  ODM project reports nos. 40, 50 (1978).



- 23 -
3. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project would launch a land development program along the
Trans-Sumatra Highway by resettling about 30,000 families from impoverished
and ecologically threatened areas of Java and Bali, plus Sumatra, on four
sites in the province of Jambi (Map IBRD 13914). It would also upgrade the
conditions and services provided to 4,000 transmigrant families who were
recently settled in the Singkut area. For each settlement site, the project
would provide physical infrastructure, land clearing, agricultural inputs and
services, and community facilities including schools, subhealth centers,
places of worship and other public buildings. Technical assistance would be
provided to assist the Government in implementing the project, developing its
transmigration program for the next five years, and establishing a monitoring
and evaluation system.
Project Works
3.02      Project investments would cover the following:
Land Clearing and Site Preparation
(a)  Clearance of about 37,500 ha of forested land for 30,000 new
families, and about 7,500 ha for roads and public facilities;
(b)  Construction of about 680 km of access and link roads and about
1,500 km of village roads at the four new sites, construction of
about 100 km of village roads and upgrading of about 30 km of
access and 120 km of village roads at Singkut;
(c)  Construction of a 30 m x 1,200 m airstrip, at Sarolangun, upgrading
the airstrip at Rimbo Bujang to 30 m x 1,200 m, and provision of
air communications equipment at each site;
(d)  Construction and upgrading of offices, quarters and service facili-
ties for project personnel at Muara Bungo and each of the five sites;
(e)  Training of planning and design engineers and construction
supervisors;
(f)  Engagement of consultants; and
(g)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment;
Community Development and Settler Relocation
(a)  Construction of about 30,000 transmigrant houses with sanitary
facilities;
(b)  Construction of about 6,800 shallow wells (10-15 m) and about 200
deep wells (80 m) for water supply at the four new sites and 750
shallow wells and 100 deep wells at Singkut;
(c)  Construction of community facilities including health care centers
(sub-Puskesmas), schools, places of worship, village halls, offices
and quarters for officials, guest houses and stores, markets, banks
and post offices;



- 24 -
(d) Resettlement of about 30,000 families from Java and Bali (90%) and
Sumatra (10%);
(e)  Distribution of agricultural implements and a subsistence rood
supplement over 12 months to the 30,000 new families;
(f) Malaria control in the settlement areas;
(g) Training of DGT personnel;
(h)  Engagement of consultants;                                                        i
(i) Studies and research concerning the transmigration program; and
(j) Procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies, including one,
light, fixed-wing aircraft.
Agricultural S_p2ort Services
(a) Construction of offices, quarters, warehouses and related facilities
for two seed farms, one plant protection brigade, the livestock
component and about 75 village cooperatives at the four new sites,
and the upgrading of facilities for about seven village cooperatives
at Singkut;
(b)  Distribution of an LinL;ial package of food grain and vegetable
seeds and perennial seedlings to the 30,000 new settlers;
(c) Distribution of fertilizer and pesticide for a three-year period
to support food cropping on about 37,500 ha (1.25 ha per farm,
including the home lot and garden) of new settlers land; and on
about 5,000 ha (1.0 ha food crops and 0.25 ha house and garden per
family) of existing transmigrant families land;
(d) Purchase and distribution of about 7,900 head of cattle to the
30,000 new settlers, and about 850 head to the existing trans-
migrants at Singkut;
(e) Training of Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Directorate General
of Cooperatives (DGC) personnel;
(f) Engagement of consultants;
(g) Agricultural studies and research work; and
(h) Procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies.
Investigations and Designs
(a) Aerial photography and preparation of photogrammetric maps for
about 1,000,000 ha that have been designated as future settlement
sites;



- 25 -
(b) Soil surveys, forest inventory and slope association studies on
about 400,000 ha from which about 225,000 ha of likely settlement
sites would be selected;
(c) Preparation of rectified photomaps and topographic maps for about
225,000 ha that would be selected as future settlement sites; and
(d) Preparation of site plans for some 150,000 families and detailed
designs and construction drawings for the required access and
village roads.
honitoring and Evaluation
(a) Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit to monitor and
evaluate the proposed project, and to carry out supplementary
data collection when required.
Agricultural Development
3.03      Each transmigrant family would be given 3.5 ha of land, of which
about 2.0 ha (of 0 to 8% slope) would be suitable for food cropping and about
1.5 ha (8 to 15% slope) suitable for tree crops. The project would clear
1.25 ha/family of the food cropping land, leaving 2.25 ha/family (0.75 ha
food cropping and 1.5 ha perennial tree crop land) in forest for the trans-
migrant to develop. Of the project-cleared land, the farmer is expected
to use about 1.0 ha for food crops, 0.2 ha for vegetable, fruit trees and
perennial crops' garden, and 0.05 ha for the buildings and tracks. The
project would supply transmigrants with a variety of agricultural inputs and
supporting services, such as seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, and cooperative
facilities; while the ongoing national food crop extension program would
provide extension services. These inputs and services are described in para.
4.15 to 4.23. Under a second stage of development GOI would plan, organize
and assist the transmigrants to develop their remaining 2.25 ha for food
crops, perennial tree crops or other agricultural production. In develop-
ing the tree crop areas GOI can draw on its considerable experience with
smallholder tree crop development under its Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
Projects (NES). Under the proposed NES III Project a Nucleus Estate would be
developed at Rimbo Bujang, a site adjacent to Alai Hilir. If, GOI wishes it,
this second stage of development would be eligible for Bank Group financing.
To ensure an orderly and timely development of food and tree crops, an assur-
ance was obtained that GOI would: (a) minimize the fragmentation of the 2.0
ha per family provided for the house lot and food cropping areas; (b) submit
to the Bank Group for review and comment by December 31, 1980, a plan for
developing 2.25 ha per family, which plan shall discuss, amongst other
things, provisions for food crops, tree crops, agricultural and other develop-
ment, the impact on the environment, prospects for timber sales and utilization
of settlers labor in land clearing; and (c) thereafter carry out the plan in
accordance with its terms.



- 26 -
Physical Development
3.04      Land clearing.  The estimated 7,500 ha of land intended for the
construction of roads, airstrips, home lots and gardens and community facili-
ties would be completely cleared of all jungle vegetation including stumps
and as much of the root system as necessary. The 37,500 ha of land for food
crop production would be cleared of vegetation including stumps with as
little disturbance of the topsoil as possible to minimize subsequent erosion
and to preclude the mixing of topsoil with subsoil that is devoid of plant
nutrients. To keep land clearing costs within tolerable limits and to
minimize soil disturbance, however, on the area for annual crop production some
stumps of trees bigger than 30 cm in diameter at breast height (about 50 cm
above ground level) would be left in place to rot or to be gradually disposed
of by the settlers. The stumps left should not impede soil conservation
measures and the contractor must be able to disc harrow 80% of the area
between the windrows. Although these stumps would partially impede subse-
quent windrowing and discing operations, cost savings in not removing these
stumps should more than compensate for the increased cost of these operations.
However, providing he minimized disturbance of the topsoil, the contractor
may stump shear the entire area if he considers it would facilitate his
operations. Before land clearing can commence at any site the current
holders of timber rights at that site would be given at least 12 months to
log any remaining timber covered by their concession rights. At the end
of this stipulated period the ownership of all the remaining timber would
then revert to the GOI. The DGH would describe and quantify all the timber
required for constructing the project (houses, public buildings, bridges and
culverts), and inform the Jambi Provincial Forestry Office of these timber
descriptions and quantities. The land clearing contractor would be required
to log, saw and stack, according to DGH's specifications, all timber required
for the project. Once these demands had been met, and providing he paid the
required taxes or other duties on its sales, the land clearing contractor
would have the right to sell any remaining timber for his own profit. In
order to evaluate the types and quantities of timber the contractor could
sell, the Directorate General of Forestry (DGH) would: (a) survey the areas
to be cleared once they have been delineated on 1:5,000 scale maps; and (b)
require the contractor to pass all timber for sale through a central point
for inspection and recording. After the timber concessionaire had exercised
his rights at a site, the land clearing and subsequent land preparation for
planting would consist of:  (a) cutting by hand or chain saw all trees 30 cm
and above in diameter and stockpiling the logs for eventual milling onsite or
for hauling to market centers, or burning any unwanted logs along with the
other forest debris in the windrow; (b) clearing the remaining jungle flush
at or slightly below ground level by shearing or by using some other special
tools and equipment capable of doing the work with as little disturbance of
the topsoil as possible; (c) windrowing the jungle debris along contours at
approximately 30 m spacing; (d) harrowing with heavy discs to cut up roots to
hasten their decay and prepare the land for planting; (e) pegging a contour
guideline midway between the windrows and planting this with a single row
of grass such as citronella grass (Cymbopogon nardus), vetivier grass
(Vetiveria zizanoides), elephant grass (Pennisetum purpureum) or guatemala
grass (Tripsicum laxum); (f) burning the windrowed debris; (g) stump shearing



- 27 -
the windrow line; and (h) repiling and reburning any unburnt debris. The
windrows would only be burned when they are sufficiently dry. Another
vegetative contour guideline would then be pegged and planted in the ashes.
The grass hedges would help prevent the concentration of surface runoff and
preclude the formation of erosive velocities. Sufficient land would be made
available for the contractors to establish nurseries to produce the cuttings
necessary for the grass hedges. A final harrowing would be undertaken just
prior to settlement to control weed regrowth and facilitate the incorporation
of rock phosphate into the soil at the rate of at least 500 kg/ha. Should it
be impossible to settle families on a cleared area and get their crops sown
before the onset of the wet season, under a contingency plan, the land
clearing contractor would be requested to mechanically sow that area to rice,
or some other suitable crop to help prevent erosion. This he could do either
using the harrowing operation (attaching seed boxes to the harrows) or separately
drilling in the seed. DGFCA would supply the seed for such a crop. The
runoff from areas cleared for villages, markets, playing fields and other
public areas would be carefully diverted around the contour to natural drain-
age lines. Silt measuring devices would be installed in rivers downstream of
the project sites to monitor sediment loads and warn of any increases in the
erosion of project areas. In the future, if necessary, silt traps would be
constructed in the bottom of natural drainage lines of the project sites.
3.05      Road Construction.  A network of access and village roads would
be constructed to the proposed settlement sites. Wherever possible, existing
logging roads in the vicinity of these sites would be upgraded and incor-
porated into the road network. To facilitate the movement of agricultural
supplies, products and supporting services, all main access and village link
roads (710 km) are designed to be trafficable in the wet season to moderate
traffic of trucks and light vehicles. These roads would have 1.5 m shoulders
and a 4.5 m roadway with a 15 cm thick compacted pit-run gravel base course.
Village roads (1,720 km), which would normally be used by carts, light
vehicles and occasionally by trucks, are designed to lower standards.
These roads would have 1.0 m shoulders and a 3.0 m roadway with a compacted
subbase. All roads should be aligned so as to minimize drainage requirements,
and the table drains designed so that water would be diverted from them
before it reached erosive velocity. All bridges and culverts, no matter how
small, would have appropriate wing-walls at both ends. Timber milled from
the initial extraction of commercial logs from the settlement sites would be
used to construct bridges along these roads. Both types of roads can later
be improved by the local Government by thickening their base courses, adding
a suitable surfacing and constructing more permanent bridges.
3.06      Housing and Sanitary Facilities.  About 30,000 settler houses
measuring approximately 34 sq m would be constructed under the project.
Wherever possible, locally available materials would be utilized, including
lumber and wood shingle or clay roofing tiles obtained from the settlement
sites. Within each site the house lots and housing units would be modular,
of uniform design and cost no more than Rp 250,000 (US$400)/l each. However,
/1 At present, BAPPENAS has a cost ceiling of Rp 350,000 (US$560) on houses to
be constructed for transmigrants. As the project would supply sawn timber
for the houses, BAPPENAS's ceiling cost has correspondingly been reduced.



- 28 -
in order to develop comparable or improved structures of lower cost9 experi-
mentation with different combinations of materials and designs would be
encouraged. Pit latrines would be constructed on each plot at a minimum
distance of 15 m from the house and drinking water supply.
3.07      Water Supply.  Hydrogeological surveys in the project area indicate
that the water table is 10-15 m below the ground surface during the dry
seasono On this basis it has been determined that a shallow well driven to
an average depth of about 12 m would provide an adequate supply for four
families throughout most of the project area. However, at Kuamang Kuning and
Singkut, it would be necessary to drill wells to 80 m depth in order to tap a
reliable aquifer. Rainwater collected from roof drains would supplement
ground water supplies.
3.08      Communications Support.  A single side band radio system would link
site managers with project headquarters at Muara Bungo and Jakarta. Mobile
radio equipment would be provided at each site to enable senior staff to
communicate from field posts. A light plane to be purchased under the
project, and the airstrips at Rimbo Bujang and Sarolangun, would shorten the
travel time of officials with prime responsibility for the transmigration
program and enable them to observe first-hand the status of project imple=
mentation. DGT would be responsible for procuring and operating the light
plane. The plane would be capable of seating about eight people (under
tropical conditions), and would have short take-off and landing characteristics.
It would be utilized by the various agencies implementing the transmigration
program.
Village Development
3.09      Blocks.  Past experience in transmigrant settlements suggests
that small blocks or dukuhs of 25-50 households are the primary units of
neighborhood cooperation and farm development. Since these blocks are
generally settled by migrants recruited from the same area9 this facilitates
the formation of cooperative work groups, agricultural extension groups
and other such associations. These groups also appoint their own headman and
unite to build community structures like prayer houses (langar) and community
halls (balai). The proposed project would be comparable with this patterno
3.10      Villages.  Villages would consist of 250=500 households depending
on layout allowed by topography. One centrally located block in each
village would contain administrative and community facilities. Facilities
provided by the project would include a place of worship, a primary school, a
village office, village cooperative facilities such as warehouses, a rice
drying floor and processing facilities (para. 4.21), and associated staff
houses. DGT would be responsible for the construction of such facilities.
Farmers would use temporary markets and recreational facilities until permanent
commercial centers and traffic flow become apparent. M4ore permanent facilities
would then be provided by ongoing Government programs for local infrastructure
development such as INPRESo Suitable cleared land adjacent to these facilities
would be reserved for those administrators, teachers, health workers and
other nonagricultural personnel living in the village.   About 75 new villages
would be constructed.



- 29 -
3.11      Main Villages.  For every 2,000 families, which population would
constitute a land development area or unit (SKP), a main village would be
established to integrate and coordinate the other villages within the SKP.
The population which a main village would serve, 10,000 people, is assumed to be
small enough for effective administration and sufficiently large for a fully
diversified community supporting artisans, service workers, and other non-
agricultural workers. Each main village would be provided with the facilities
of a regular village plus a secondary school, expanded warehousing facilities,
district administration buildings and office buildings for other appropriate
Government services. Since primary markets are likely to emerge in these
areas at least 75 nucleated plots of 0.25 ha would be reserved and given to
nonagricultural workers who wished to settle in the village center.
3.12      Project Management Center.  The project would also facilitate
the growth and development of a regional center in Muara Bungo by providing
staff houses for project management officials and technical assistants, a
communications facility, upgrading the nearby landing strip at Rimbo Bujang,
and having a regional hospital built. Improvements in this area would
benefit transmigrants and local people alike.
Settler Services
3.13      The DGT is responsible for settler recruitment, selection,
training and transport. It also provides subsistence supplies for the first
year after arrival, and supervises community development.
3.14      Recruitment.  Consistent with GOI policy, priority in recruitment
would be given to applicants from areas (i) which are ecologically threatened;
(ii) where population densities exceed 1,000 persons/sq km; (iii) where soils
are infertile; (iv) which are subject to recurring natural disasters; (v)
where people have been displaced by development projects; and (vi) in the
poorest Kecamatans of each Kabupaten. More than 500,000 families have
already registered for transmigration, so that once recruitment areas are
designated, selection would take place rapidly. There is, however, often a
considerable lapse in time between recruitment and departure, and the length
of this time is frequently unknown to the migrant. Those who sell their
possessions immediately would therefore suffer considerable hardship if the
wait is long. Assistance provided by the proposed project for improved
management and planning would allow departure dates to be fixed more exactly
and prevent unanticipated delays. A proposed FAO project also would provide
funds to DGT to use the waiting period more productively training settlers -
both men and women - in the area of origin.
3.15      Selection.  According to DGT policy settler selection is based on
criteria designed to create communities with a balance of farming and non-
farming skills. In fact, however, most migrants are landless farmers. Some
armed forces retirees do apply, but not the maximum allowed, and few skilled
workers have been motivated to transmigrate.  Urban recruits have not been
found to make very stable settlers as they have already been uprooted from
their rural environments and they are usually not willing to apply themselves



- 30 -
to sustained agricultural activities. Even the young recruits fromn agricul-
tural schools have been disappointing, as unmarried farmers do not have the
labor to cope with farm demands effectively. The proposed project would
concentrate on settling farmers with the expectation that the labor shortages
created on family farms would bring additional settlers and skilled artisans
through spontaneous migration.
3.16      Transport.  A major study is at present under way to determine the
best system of transportation to the project site.  In the past migrants have
been moved from their villages to regional holding centers (transLtos), where
they have boarded a bus or train for the nearest port. After several days
aboard ship, they have disembarked to transitos to again wait for transport
to the project site. During this period they have required food and support,
and in many cases, families with small children have found the trip extremely
arduous. A recent FAO study indicates that air travel direct from point of
origin to destination is more expensive, but because it alleviates the hard-
ships of the trip it may be worth the additional cost. Government is now
studying these recommendations as resettlement on the scale proposed would
necessitate investment in additional transport. No request for equipment has
been included in this project, and the cost of transport has been based on the
past per family price.
3.17      Provisions.  Prior to disembarkation each family would be given a
standard settler package consisting of clothes for each family member,
mosquito netting, woven sleeping mats, and cooking pots. Upon arrival at the
settlement, each family would receive an appropriate set of agricultural
tools (para. 4.17), and other tools distributed to groups of families, such
as small saws to groups of five families, larger saws, simple blacksmithing
tools and scales to groups of 250 families. On the assumption that migrants
are unable to support themselves during the first year, each family also would
be given a subsistence package for twelve months. In the past, these monthly
rations have consisted of 50 kg of rice, 5 kg dried fish, 3 kg cooking oil,
8 liters kerosene, 3 kg sugar, 2 kg salt, and 1 kg soap. The Government has
agreed to undertake a study within the Transmigration I project area (Loan
1318-IND) to determine whether a simpler package of rice and money might
better meet the transmigrants needs. If it is suitable, it would be extended
to all Bank Group assisted transmigration projects. At present, for this
project, however, it is anticipated that the monthly package would be similar
to that distributed in the past.  An assurance was obtained that in the event
of crop failure or other circumstances beyond the control of the settlers
during the first year of settlement, GOI would distribute rice and the other
essential commodities for the second year of settlement.
3.18      Training.  Since settlers are particularly receptive to new informa-
tion in their early years on site, DGT with consultant assistance from FAO
would design and implement a settler training program intended to promote both
necessary behavioral changes and active participation in settlement schemes.
As the household is the basic productive unit, men, women and working children
would all be given information on agricultural production, marketing, use of
local resources, appropriate technologies, health, population education and
village participation. Javanese women who traditionally share decision-making



- 31 -
and responsibilities for agricultural production and marketing with their
husbands would be given information on credit, cooperatives, land titLes and
the like, and both men and women would be encouraged to involve themselves in
cooperative community work. This program has already been tried with consid-
erable success in an earlier FAO-assisted transmigrant scheme.
3.19      Local Settlers.  Although Government has reserved 10% of all
*        transmigration project sites for local people for the past year, the proposed
project would be one of the first to actually provide services to these
people. Since these people are generally shifting cultivators and rubber
tappers unfamiliar with the farming methods, language, or culture of people
from Java, this necessitates particular attention to their integration within
the community and the provision of project components appropriate for them.
To promote assimilation while assuring the comfort of local people in the
community, these farmers would be settled in groups of no less than 30-35
households (one dukuh). To scatter them among farmers from Java would place
the burden of assimilation on local settlers, isolate them from cooperative
work groups (work patterns are different between groups), and increase the
likelihood that locals would lose interest and withdraw from the community
when their subsistence packages ceased. To conform to local tradition,
houses for local settlers would be elevated from the ground and have appro-
priate cooking areas and sanitary facilities. Since so little is known of
either the agricultural practices of the local people or the problems likely
to be encountered while integrating them into the settlement, the present
project would finance research to evaluate problems of adaptation and make
recommendations for future settlement.
3.20      Spontaneous Migrants.  Previous experience in transmigrant commu-
nities suggests that spontaneous migrants do as well as those who are fully
sponsored. This is related to selection factors - spontaneous migrants
tend to be slightly older and have more labor in the family, and may have
slightly higher incomes before transmigrating than the assisted migrants.
It is also due to the fact that spontaneous migrants invariably move to areas
where they have relatives and friends who can provide them with economic and
social support. Since spontaneous movement meets the ultimate goal of
resettlement in a less costly, less cumbersome and perhaps less risky manner
than full Government support, the proposed project, amongst others, would
assist spontaneous movement in the following ways:
(a) Twenty percent of sites in blocks within five trial villages
cleared in the first year would be planted with a cover crop but
not settled. In the second year these plots would be opened to
homesteading by relatives of settlers within the block. These
settlers would not receive houses or subsistence support but would
be eligible for the same agricultural package as sponsored immi-
grants. The progress of these settlers would be closely monitored
with the objective of increasing the number of people settled
through homesteading.



- 32 -
(b) DGT would register all spontaneous migrants who arrive on site.
After one year those who met the settler selection standards _
(married agriculturalists from poor or landless families) would be
eligible to move with full support into the next available settlement.
A waiting period of one year would encourage families to bring
relatives to relieve labor shortages and it would allow Government
to adjust recruitment quotas in Java. It would also serve to weed
out inappropriate settlers, and reduce the cost per family settled.
This system would be initiated immediately among the spontaneous
families who have already settled in Singkut.
(c) In all settlement units of 2,000 families at least 75 0.25 ha
houselots would be cleared and made available to nonagricultural
settlers. Land would also be made available near market areas in
other villages. This land would be surveyed and the deeds trans-
ferred for a nominal administrative fee. Procedures would be
developed to ensure that deeds would be given only to those who
occupied land and that the area would revert to the community if
the owner-operator left.
(d) DGT would also explore the location, construction and staffing
of transitos for spontaneous migrants and submit plans and cost
estimates for their construction and maintenance.
(e) As one of its first research activities, the DGT would undertake a
study of existing spontaneous migrants and the constraints to
spontaneous movement. Special attention would be paid to problems
of land transfer (para. 3.22, 3.23).
Community Development
3.21      Once transmigrants are on site, the DGT would coordinate and promote
community development. For example, DGT officials would:
(a) register new arrivals and settle them on their land;
(b) register spontaneous migrants and, within the project area, arrange
the transfer of appropriate lands to them;
(c) disseminate information from all sectors to the village heads
and dukuh leaders;
(d) supervise the organization and growth of village level adminis-
tration;
(e) facilitate the establishment of village development organizations;
(f) coordinate record keeping;



- 33 -
(g)  supervise monitoring and evaluation of project impact; and
(h)  prepare communities for the transfer to provincial authority
within five years or less from the time transmigrants arrive on
site.
3.22      DGT, in cooperation with Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
(DGA), would provide each family with right of use title (hak pakai), that is,
the right to use the land, to their house lot (0.25 ha) and 1.75 ha of other
land within one year of arrival, and to their remaining 1.5 ha within two
years of arrival. It would provide the migrants with land ownership title
(hak milik) to all their land within five years of their arrival on site. To
prevent land fragmentation during the development period in accordance with
present policy and before hak milik is issued, these property titles would be
contingent on the following.
(a)  that the plot not be transferred;
(b)  that if the land is sold after five years, it cannot be sub-
divided; and
(c)  that if the owner dies, the land must be transferred as a unit
to just one of his heirs.
Assurances were obtained that each settler in a new settlement area would
receive a certificate evidencing:
(a) hak Pakai (i) to his house lot (0.25 ha) and 1.75 ha of other land
within one year after the settler's arrival, and (ii) to the remaining
1.5 ha of land within two years after his arrival; and
(b) hak milik to all the settler's land within five years after his arrival
on site.
The project would provide funds for DGA to train staff and procure vehicles
and equipment to enable it to survey and peg the settlers house lots and other
land.
3.23      Transmigration Program Research.  During the project implementation
period, the DGT would undertake studies on barriers to spontaneous transmigra-
tion; the needs of local transmigrants versus the needs of transmigrants from
Java; further hydrogeological surveys in the project area to help develop
potable water supplies; and the comparison of community and land development
over time under linear, semi-nucleated and nucleated settlements. An assurance
was obtained that the DGT would submit the terms of reference for these
studies financed under the project, to the Bank Group for comment and approval.
3.24      Health.  Funds are included under the project to construct about 30
subhealth centers, each to serve some 1,000 families. In addition, GOI would
construct, under its ongoing national health program, referral hospitals at
Muara Bungo and Bangko, and health centers (Puskesmas) to serve about 8-10,000
families each. Health services with a primary health care approach would focus
on malaria control, immunization, nutrition, family planning and environmental
sanitation. The project would also provide for malaria control campaigns in the
settlement areas to protect non-immune transmigrants, including housespraying,
malariometric surveys and treatment. The Directorate General of Community Health
within the MIOH, in association with the provincial health authorities and



- 34 -
under the Government's village public works program (INPRES), would construct
the health centers while the project would construct the subhealth centers.
The Directorate General for Medical Care within the MOH would provide the
hospitals. The provincial health authorities would operate the malaria
control activities. To strengthen the technical implementation capacity at
Kabupaten level, the project would also provide support to a health coordinator
to be appointed at each Kabupaten. An assurance was obtained from GOI that
it would construct and staff the hospitals and health centers, and that the
subhealth centers would be staffed and operational when the first transmigrants
arrive.
3.25      Education.  The project would provide primary schools (grades 1
to 6) in each village, and a lower secondary school (SMP, grades 7 to 9) in
selected villages. The Ministry of Home Affairs would construct the primary
schools, while the Directorate General of Education would construct the
secondary schools, and be responsible for staffing all the schools
(para. 4.25).
Investigations and Designs
3.26      The project contains funds for GOI to prepare plans and designs for
future settlement sites under the transmigration program. DGH would employ
internationally and locally recruited consultants to assist it in this work
(para. 3.31), which would span reconnaissant to detailed resource surveying
and designing. An assurance was obtained that GOI would submit to the Bank
Group for review and approval all work programs financed under this project
to identify survey, map, plan and design in detail future settlement areas
for the transmigration program.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.27      Overall Monitoring and Evaluation.  The new transmigration program
is not only far larger than previous transmigration programs but it involves
institutional arrangements which are far more complex. To design a system
which would facilitate planning, implementation and coordination of the
overall transmigration program, a firm of management consultants would be
recruited to establish a Project Management Group (PlAG) within the Office
of the Junior Minister for Transmigration (JMT). This group would be respon-
sible (a) for ascertaining lines of authority and establishing information
linkages between the various directorates; (b) for establishing procedures
for monitoring and evaluating overall project planning, implementation and
impact; (c) for developing a financial control system to assure the timely
preparation of budgets and the provision of funds; (d) for assessing staff
needs and recommending the type of staff and training required within the
PMG; and (e) undertaking other activities suggested by the JMT, and approved
by the Bank, which would improve the management and coordination of the
transmigration program. The Government is in an advanced stage of preparation
of the consultants' terms of reference.
3.28      Monitoring of Transmigration II.  It is the intention of the Govern-
ment that a system be developed which would monitor and evaluate project
preparation, implementation and impact in all transmigration projects. However,
since it is unlikely that this system would be fully operative until after
the proposed project is underway, and since this particular project has many



- 35 -
new components, a small monitoring and evaluation (M&E) section would be
established as part of the Office of the Regional Project Coordinator for
Transmigration II in Muaro Bungo. This section would have the responsibility
for:
(a)  developing a reporting system for monitoring and evaluating project
implementation within the Jambi sites;
(b)  determining the significant indicators of settler welfare:  income,
crop yields, traffic flow, amount of spontaneous immigration,
and arrange for their systematic measurement at all sites; and
(c)  initiating supplementary data collection to clarify problems as the
need arises.
3.29      The project level M&E section would consist minimally of one senior
level management person, preferably with experience in Indonesia, to develop
reporting procedures for participating agencies, an experienced social
scientist to supervise benefit monitoring, and appropriate supporting staff.
All would be full-time in Muaro Bungo. Because the M&E section would be
expected to work cooperatively with the PMG to develop uniform reporting
procedures suitable for the entire program, the senior level specialists
would come from the same internationally recruited management consulting firm
that provides the technical assistance to the PMG.
3.30      Supplementary Data Collection.  The need for timely research to
answer specific questions generated by monitoring and evaluation would occur
throughout the program. Therefore, the M&E section would be provided with
funds to conduct supplementary data collection and analysis which would
clarify problems noted in the course of monitoring and evaluation. These
small studies, identified by the M&E section, would be undertaken by short-
term consultants following review and comment by the Bank Group on the terms
of reference. The M&E section would prepare the terms of reference, and
would supervise these studies. An assurance was obtained that the M&E
section would submit the terms of reference for all studies which it would
undertake, and which would be financed under this project, to the Bank Group
for review and approval.
Consulting Services
3.31      To assist the implementing agencies, who currently do not have
the in-house capability to carry out the work described above and below,
the project would provide for the services of internationally recruited and
local consultants during project implementation. The consultants would be
recruited by and attached to the following agencies:
(a)  DGH would engage internationally recruited consultants to:
(i) review settlement plans and designs, site plans and
construction drawings for access and village roads to be cons-
tructed under the project; (ii) assist in setting up and imple-
menting training programs for planning and design engineers, and
land clearing and construction supervisors; (iii) assist in pre-
paring studies, site plans, designs and construction drawings for
future settlement sites, and review such work prepared by local
consultants;



- 36 -
(iv) provide guidance to local consultants who would supervise land
clearing and road construction; and (v) assist in planning and
supervising the implementation of the soil conservation works.
DGH would also engage local consultants to: (i) assist in super-
vising land clearing and road construction; and (ii) assist in
preparing site plans for about 150,000 families and detailed
designs and construction drawings for the required access and
village roads.
(b) DGT would engage internationally recruited consultants to (i) pro-
vide advice on transportation systems for the transmigrant sites;
and (ii) assist in supervising the construction of community
facilities, public buildings, cooperative infrastructure, settler
housing and water supply systems. DGT would also engage local
consultants to assist in supervising the construction of community
facilities, public buildings, cooperative infrastructure, settler
housing and water supply systems. FAO would provide technical
assistance to DGT to assist it in recruiting and training staff to
fill positions within DGT at the national, provincial and site
levels.
(c)  The JMT would engage internationally recruited and local consultants
to: (i) assist in developing a system for overall program planning
and coordination; (ii) assist in establishing and operating the
Project and Deputy Project Coordinators Offices for Transmigration
II which would be stationed in Jakarta and Muara Bungo respectively;
and (iii) assist in establishing and implementing procedures for
monitoring and evaluating preparation and implementation of the
transmigration program including this project.
(d) The Directorate Generals of Food Crop Agriculture (DGFCA), of
Livestock (DGLS), and of Cooperatives (DGC) would engage inter-
nationally recruited consultants to: (i) assist in setting up and
implementing training programs for agronomists, field extension
workers (DGFCA) and managers of village cooperatives (DGC);
(ii) provide advice on appropriate upland cropping patterns and
techniques (DGFCA); processing, storage and marketing of upland
tropical products (DGC); and introduction of cattle into the
project area (DGLS); (iii) undertake soil surveys and forest
inventories on future settlement sites (DGFCA and DGF); and
(iv) assist in assessing these agencies' future staffing needs to
enable them to cope with the agricultural support services in
future transmigration projects. DGFCA would also engage local
consultants to assist in supervising the construction of offices
and quarters, seed farm and plant protection brigade facilities.
3.32      The number of man-months required to carry out these services as
well as their estimated costs are presented in Table 3.1. Assurances were
obtained that the agencies would finalize arrangements for the engagement
of consultants with qualifications and under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank Group by August 31, 1979, for DGH; by October 31, 1979 for DGT;
and by December 31, 1979 for JMT, DGC, DGFCA and DGLS.



- 3/ -
Table 3.1: CONSULTING SERVICES
Man-months                  Cost
Int. Rct./a Local lb Int. Rct. Local Total
US$ million ----
Project land clearing,
site preparation (DGH)           460      1,100        4.0     1.3    5.3
Investigations, designs
future projects (DGH)            295      2,600        2.6      3.1    5.7
Village and community
development, settler reloca-
tion (DGT)                        60        280        0.5      0.3    0.8
Agricultural support
services (DGFCA, DGLS, DGC)    190          400        1.7      0.5    2.2
Project organization, moni-
toring and evaluation (JMT)       75        420        0.6      0.5    1.1
Supplementary data collection
(JMT)                             20        100       0.2      0.1    0.3
Total                       100       4,900        9.6     5.8   15.4
/a  Internationally recruited.
/b  Includes engineers' and technicians' man-months; the latter have been
converted to equivalent engineers' man-months by dividing by three to
obtain the numbers shown.
Status of_Encineering
3.33     Four of the sites included in the project are within the study area
covered by the British Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) team. ODM has
investigated and surveyed Singkut, Kuamang Kuning, Kubang Ujo and Hitam Ulu,
and prepared maps at 1:40,000 scale On the drainage network and catchment
area, slope as,o-:r.L1ons, present land use and timber resources, soils, land
suitability and recommended land use. ODM checked this work by detailed
topographical, soil and timber resource ground surveys at 1:5,000 scale in



- 38 -
several small sample areas (100 ha/sample area) at each site. For the four
sites ODM has also made recommended, outline development plans which include
cropping zonation, village sites, road alignments and soil conservation and
drainage measures.
3.34      DGH has engaged local consultants, who using the ODM studies as a
basis, have done preliminary designs at 1:20,000 scale for these sites,
showing the rough boundaries for land development units (SKPs, which would
contain 2,000 families), site access roads, village sites and connecting
roads between the villages. DGH has also engaged local consultants to
prepare for the four new sites 1:5,000 scale topographic maps with 2.5 m
contour interval and 1:5,000 scale thematic slope association maps, which
would be produced from 1:20,000 scale aerial photographs and 1:5,000 scale
rectified photomosaics supplied with spot heights on a 100 m x 300 m grid.
These are currently under preparation, and maps for the three SKPs in Kuamang
Kuning should be completed and tested by May 31, 1979. Maps for one SKP in
Kubang Ujo should be completed and tested by June 30, 1979; for the five SKPs
in Hitam Ulu by August 31, 1979; and for the remaining six SKPs in Alai Hilir
and Kubang Ujo by December 31, 1979. Using the 1:5,000 topographic and slope
association maps, DGH's design consultants would prepare detailed site plans
for Kuamang Kuning by August 31, 1979; for Hitam Ulu by November 30, 1979;
and Alai Hlilir and all Kubang Ujo by March 31, 1980.
3.35      Standard designs and contract quantities for settler housing and
public buildings have been prepared and are based on national standards
adopted by the agencies responsible for the design and construction of these
structures. Standard designs for main access and village link roads and
village roads have been completed, and detailed surveys on alignment, pro-
files and cross-sections are under way. These would be adjusted on site, as
required, after the forest cover is removed.
Implementation Schedule
3.36      The project would be implemented from mid-1979 to March 1985
(Figure 3.1). Terms of reference for DGFCA, DGLS and DGC's consultants have
already been issued. The draft land clearing bid documents have been prepared
for a typical site. Each land clearing and road construction contract would
cover three SKPs, that is, 9,000 ha of clearing per contract. The first two
contracts are expected to be awarded not later than January 1980 and the
remaining three contracts not later than August 1980. Land clearing operations
and village center and settler housing construction would be carried out over
a four and a half-year period beginning in April 1980 and ending in December
1984. The proposed sites for roads, village centers and seed farms would be
cleared first. The construction of roads, infrastructure for agricultural
support services, community facilities and housing for transmigrant families
would follow sequentially, with the last housing unit expected to be completed
by December 1984. Transmigrant families would begin to arrive on site in
October 1980, and would all be settled by March 1985. DGFCA would issue the
first bid documents for the supply of seed farm and agricultural processing
and marketing equipment - fertilizers and pesticides by January 1980.
Beginning in October 1980 and finishing in March 1985, fertilizers and
pesticides procured under the project would be supplied to the transmigrants
during the first three years after their arrival.



- 39 -
Cost Estimates
3.37      The total project cost is estimated at US$242 million, of which
US$144.1 million (58%) is the foreign exchange component. Project costs are
expressed in mid-1979 prices and base costs have been adjusted to reflect the
November 15, 1978 rupiah devaluation. Because of the tax exempt status of the
implementing agencies, the above costs do not include provisions for local,
provincial or national taxes. Land clearing quantities, which have been
averaged on a per hectare basis for each of the five settlement sites, are
based on tree counts carried out on representative sample areas constituting
1% to 3% of the area covered by each site. Civil works quantities for roads
and bridges are still based on preliminary designs but would be updated in
September following completion of detailed designs and construction drawings
for the first one of five contracts. Contract quantities for settler houses,
infrastructure for agricultural supporting services and health, education and
other public buildings are based on standard designs and construction drawings
for these structures. Land clearing costs have been calculated by applying to
the estimated quantities unit prices which take into account the production
rates of duty-free equipment and the cost of owning, operating and maintaining
them. The cost of roads and bridges, settler housing, infrastructure for the
various services and other public buildings were determined by applying to the
contract quantities the prevailing unit prices, updated to mid-1979 prices,
for similar works in the vicinity of the project area. These unit prices take
into account the availability of some cheap materials on the site, particularly
sawn timber produced as a by-product of land clearing. Costs of consulting
services are based on recent contracts for similar services in Indonesia. The
direct costs of foreign consultants (salaries, overseas allowance, home office
overhead and fee) amount to about US$5,500/man-month. Reimbursable costs
(travel, housing, field overhead and other expenses) average about US$3,200/man-
month, for a total cost of US$8,700/man-month (Annex 1, Table 8). By comparison,
total costs of local consultants amount to about US$1,200/ man-month. The
cost estimates include physical contingencies consistent with the degree of
preparation and complexity of the various project elements. These are about
25% for land clearing and roads; 15% for settler housing, public buildings and
other facilities; and 10% for services, equipment and supplies. The cost
estimates also include an allowance for expected price increases during
project execution (41% of base cost plus physical contingencies), which are
based on the following projected annual inflation rates:
(a) Civil works - 7% in 1979-84 for the foreign exchange component and
10% during the second half of 1979, 20% in 1980, 15% in 1981-82, 10%
in 1983, and 7% in 1984 for the local currency component;
(b) Equipment, services and supplies - 7% in 1979-84 for the foreign
exchange component and 10% during the second half of 1979, 20% in
1980, 15% in 1981-82, 10% in 1983, and 7% in 1984 for the local
currency component.
The above local inflation rates take into account the inflationary effects of
the rupiah devaluation on November 15, 1978, as well as the recent experiences
with similar contracts in the sector. Details of project costs are presented
in Annex 1, Table 1 and summarized in Table 3.2. Excluding price contingencies



- 40 -
and costs attributed to the national program and the preparation of future
projects, the site preparation, development and resettlement costs would be
about US$4,250 per family (Annex 1, Table 5).
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  exchange
---- Rp million -----   ---- US$ million ----    (%)
Site preparation              9,813  25,562   35,375   15.7   40.9    56.6         72
Site development and
settler relocation         17,188  12,937   30,125   27.5   20.7    48.2         39
Agricultural support
services                    7,813  13,500   21,313   12.5   21.6    34.1         60
Investigations and designs  2,875   3,375    6,250    4.6    5.4    10.0           59
Base cost             37,689  55,374   93,063   60.3   88.6   148.9         60
Physical contingencies        5,374   8,938   14,312    8.6   14.3    22.9         62
Expected price increases   18,124  25,751   43,875   29.0   41.2    70.2           59
Total                 61,187  90,063  151,250   97.9  144.1   242.0         60
Financing
3.38      The proposed Bank Group loan of US$90 million and credit of US$67
million would finance the project's full foreign exchange cost and US$12.9
million of local costs. This would cover about 65% of total project costs.
An EEC Special Action Credit of about US$5.5 million would supplement these
funds. GOI would provide in a timely manner to the project implementing
agencies the remaining Rp 49,687.5 million (US$79.5 million) out of annual
budget appropriations.
Procurement /I
3.39      Except for 15 start-up vehicles which would be procured under the
consultants' contracts, vehicles, equipment and supplies for construction and
operation (US$7.9 million) would be procured under international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference
equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would
be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Equipment, spare parts and supplies costing less than US$10,000 each and
limited to a total of US$2.0 million, which are not suitable for international
competitive bidding, would be purchased through normal Government procurement
/1 All costs in this section of the report include contingencies.



- 41 -
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank Group. There are sufficient
suppliers of such goods to ensure adequate competition. All contracts for
vehicles and equipment exceeding US$100,000 in value would be submitted to
the Bank Group for review before bidding and award.
3.40      Contracts for mapping (US$4.8 million) would be awarded following
local competitive bidding in accordance with normal Government procedures.
There are sufficient mapping contractors in Indonesia to ensure adequate
competition. Contracts for consultants' services (US$24.2 million) would be
awarded in accordance with Bank Group guidelines on the uses of consultants.
3.41      Road construction and land clearing works for the settlement sites
would be included in the same contract. Total road construction (US$33.3 mil-
lion) and land clearing (US$40.7 million) works would be divided into five,
three and a-half year contracts covering about 9,000 ha each, which would be
awarded following international competitive bidding. Assurances were
obtained from GOI that all tenders for land clearing (including road con-
struction) and agrochemicals supply (US$18.6 million) would be submitted to
international competitive bidding. All female cattle and 20% of the bulls
(US$6.8 million) would be imported, and would be procured on the basis of
at least three price quotations from livestock suppliers in countries free of
foot and mouth disease. The remaining 80% of the bulls (US$0.2 million) would
be purchased locally following appropriate local competitive bidding guide-
lines. The construction of settler housing and water supply (US$22.1 million)
and agricultural infrastructure and community facilities (US$17.0 million),
which are relatively small and widely scattered in area and time span, would
not be of interest to international contractors. These works would be carried
out following local competitive bidding procedures which were reviewed and
found acceptable. Assurances were obtained from GOI that: (a) the works
would be grouped into a number of suitable contracts (minimum size whenever
feasible US$100,000) that would enable large local contractors or joint
ventures of small local firms to bid within the classes for which Government
regulations require them to be prequalified; and (b) documents for ICB and
these local contracts would be submitted to the Bank Group for review before
tendering and award. The EEC Special Action Credit would be used for civil
works and equipment produced in or supplied from any EEC member state and any
developing country which could be the recepient of an EEC Special Action
Credit.
Disbursements
3.42      Disbursements would be made at the following rates:
(a)  80% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, equip-
ment, vehicles and cattle; 95% of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured equipment and goods; 65% of total expenditures for
imported goods and equipment procured locally, excluding vehicles;
and 40% of local expenditures for locally procured cattle and



- 42 -
locally assembled vehicles, except for 15 start-up vehicles for the
use of consultants which would be disbursed under the consultants'
category;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for mapping, consultants, research and
training;
(d) 60% of total cost of relocation and subsidies to settlers would be
disbursed against a statement of expenditure, certified by the DGT,
with supporting documentation written by the borrower and held
available for inspection during supervision missions; and
(e)  100% of foreign expenditures for agrochemicals and 50% of local
expenditures on the basis of contracts awarded after international
competitive bidding.
The EEC Special Action Credit funds are expected to be disbursed within two
years. In consultation with the Bank Group, any savings from the loan or
credit funds would be applied to financing additional settlements. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by December 31, 1985, approximately eight
months after the completion of project works. Annex 1, Table 3, presents the
estimated schedule of expenditures on the project; Table 6, the disbursement
schedule; and Table 4, the proposed allocation of loan proceeds.
Accounts and Audits
3.43      While at present the Auditor-General is satisfactorily auditing all
the proposed implementing GOI agencies, assurances were obtained from the
Government that: (a) the project implementing agencies (DGH, DGT, DGFCA,
DGLS and DGC) would maintain separate accounts for the project; (b) these
accounts would be transmitted annually to the Project Coordinator's Office
where they would be collected and subjected to an annual audit by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank Group; and (c) these audited accounts would
be submitted to the Bank Group within six months of the close of each fiscal
year, together with the auditor's comments and opinion.
Environmental Effects
3.44      Since this project was made necessary in part by ecological threats
in Java and Bali, great care would be taken to prevent similar threats at the
new sites. The main ecological threats to be avoided are erosion, the deple-
tion of soil fertility and structure, increases in pests and diseases, and
possible reductions in wildlife.
(a) Erosion. The incidence of erosion would be reduced by restricting
food crop production to land with 8% slope or less. It would be
further controlled by planting grass strips or hedges along contour
lines, and encouraging farmers to plant food crops on the contour,
and trees along the contour lines.
(b) Soil Fertility. Soil surveys have been used in the selection of
sites; and farmers would make annual fertilizer applications to
improve and maintain soil fertility. No cleared site would be left
exposed during the wet season, and exposure at other times would be



- 43 -
as brief as practicable.  Farmers w(old elther leave crop stubble, or
cut and lay it on the fields, where it would be incorporated into the
soil to build up organic matter. Where appropriate, shade trees
would be planted. The complex cropping patterns of indigenous "home
gardens" would be promoted to preserve soil fertility, and domestic
wastes, where possible, would be used on gardens for their nurrEL
content.
(c)  Pressures of Pests and Diseases.  These would be reduced by ihe
extension service promoting resistant crop strains, multiple vari-
eties, and crop rotation and intercropping.
(d) Wildlife. Wildlife within the project area would be assessed by the
Directorate for the Protection and Preservation of the Environment
(PPA) before land clearance. The Wild Animal (1931), Hunting
(1940), Nature Protection (1941) and Basic Forestry Provisions
(1967) Acts and Ordinances would be complied with and PPA would be
asked to recommend further measures if necessary. Dramatic loss of
wildlife is not expected since only 15% of the project area would be
cleared. PPA would advise on zoning for multiple use of the remain-
ing 85% for sustained yield forestry habitat conservation and other
compatible uses.
3.45      Malaria is considered to be a problem but the malaria control program
in connection with health care packages and facilities to be provided to
settlers are expected to minimize this problem. Moreover, the project works
would reduce mosquito breeding areas that currently exist.



- 44 -
ONDONESIA                                        ~~~~~~Figure 3.1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION 11
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALANDER YEAR           19           1980           1981         1982          1983          1984          1985
SITE PREPARATION
Issue and Process Tender Documents
Land Clearing                                                        _  _  =  _=                                             _
Road Construction                                                     _          ___                 __ 
SITE DEVELOPMENT & SETTLER RELOCATION
Issue and Process Tender Documents
Construction of Community Facilities                                         m _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
Construction of Settler Housing                                          _         _                 U _  _  _                _
Relocation of Families                                                       _   _  _                    _                _                   l
Distribution of Tools and Food Supplement                                    _  _      _      _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _  _  _  _  _  _     a _
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
Issue and Process Tender Documents
Construction of Infrastructure                                         *          _  _  __                             __
Establishement of Seed Farms                                             _         _m_        __
Distribution of Seeds, Seedlings, Fertilizer                                 _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  m  a  t
and Pesticides
Procurement of Equipment for Cooperatives                         _   _
INVESTIGATIONS AND DESIGNS
Mapping
Soil Surveys, Forest Inventory and Slope
Association Studies
Evaluation of Irrigation Potential
Site Plans and Detailed Designs for Future Settlements   _  _  _  _                 a _    a _
World Bank - 19681



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Quantities for Main Items of Implementation Schedule
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Calander Years - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Unit           ].980           1981            1982            1983             1984            1985
Season   W  et Elliry
Land clearing                (ha)          4,500           11,250          11,250         ,11.250,         , 6.750
Road construction
- access road              (kIn)            100           170             170   ,         170              100
- village road             (km)          ,370  ,375   ,375   ,375,                                       ,225
House construction          (houses)           , 3,000           7,500            7,500          7,500            4,500
Family relocation           (families)           ,  3,000            7,500           7,500          7,500            4,500   0
c-
'-
w'~



- 46 -
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEIENT
General Organizational Arrangements
4.01      Weak management and poorly coordinated implementation have been
major flaws in past efforts to develop the transmigration program. The
competition among several agencies for primary responsibliity in implementing
the program has resulted in little cooperative action. Because budget funds
were controlled by one agency, the Directorate General of Transmigration
(DGT), other agencies who invariably had difficulty in obtaining timely and
adequate funds gave transmigration activities a relatively low priority. To
overcome these shortcomings and to enable the expansion, acceleration and
efficient implementation of the transmigration program, Presidential Decree
No. 26 was formulated and issued on August 31, 1978. This Decree broadly
outlines the responsiblities of the various ministries involved in the
program and specifies individual agency responsibilities and working level
relationships.
4.02      The main innovation of the Decree is the allocation of responsibil-
ity for transmigration implementation to the various ministries ordinarily
responsible for each sector. To promote coordination of these agencies, the
Decree establishes a Coordinating Board consisting of involved ministers and
reporting directly to the President. This Board sets the broad policy guide-
lines under which the program operates. The Decree also describes the
functions of the Junior Minister for Transmigration who, assisted by a
management board, called the Transmigration Control Unit (TCU), is responsible
for the daily execution of the Coordinating Board's work. The TCU consists
of the heads of all participating Directorates General (DG). These DGs
prepare budgets within the guidelines established by the Coordinating Board
and submit them to this board for final approval. Funds are allocated to the
participating DGs and their responsibilities are executed through existing
line agencies in the provinces. This structure parallels normal institutional
arrangements in Indonesia.
4.03      Because implementation is in the hands of more than one agency, the
Presidential Decree also establishes the means for coordination. First, is
the Coordinating Board at the ministerial level and the TCU consisting of the
various Directorate Generals. Second, the Decree allows the establishment of
technical teams within the major participating agencies which are responsible
for the design and implementation of appropriate components for transmigration
projects. To this end, for example, an Agricultural Technical Team (ATT) has
been established within the Ministry of Agriculture. Third, to promote
integration of line agencies in the various regions, the Governor and
a Provincial Committee for Transmigration are charged with the coordination
of all participating agencies at the provincial center.
Project Management
4.04      The project management organization agreed upon with the Government,
and as shown in Figure 4.1, is described as follows. The Junior Minister of
Transmigration in the Ministry of Transmigration and Manpower working through



- 47 -
his Secretariat in Jakarta, would have primary responsibility for coordinat-
ing the activities of all agencies involved in the proposed project and the
overall transmigration program. As such, he would monitor the preparation,
implementation and impact of project components and assure their timely exe-
cution. To this end, a Project Coordinator and a Regional Project Coordinator
would be established within the office of the Junior Minister.
4.05      Working directly under the Junior Minister of Transmigration would
be the Project Coordinator in Jakarta who would coordinate the activities of
all of the agencies allocated funds for Transmigration II. Each of these
agencies, in turn, would appoint a liaison officer in Jakarta to work exclu-
sively on the proposed project. The main agencies involved in the project
include: (a) DGH, a Directorate General in the Ministry of Public Works,
which would be responsible for the project's site preparation and investi-
gations and design components (para. 3.02); (b) DGT, a Directorate General in
the Ministry of Transmigration and Manpower, which would be responsible for
the project's community and village construction and development and settler
relocation components; (c) DGFCA, a Directorate General within the Ministry
of Agriculture which would be responsible for construction and supplying
the agricultural supporting services; (d) ARD, the Agency for Research and
Development in the MOA which would be responsible for carrying out agricultural
research; (e) DGLS, a Directorate General within the MOA, which would be
responsible for introducing the cattle component into the project areas; and
(f) DGC, a Directorate General within the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives,
which would be responsible for establishing and operating farmer cooperatives
in the project areas.
4.06      Directly under the Project Coordinator would be a Regional Project
Coordinator at the project headquarters in Muaro Bungo who would coordinate
the operations of the field staff of DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC and all
other implementing agencies. Generally, these staff would consist of a head
of field operations (Liaison Officer) stationed in Muaro Bungo and on-site
staff in the settlement areas. The project headquarters staff of each
implementing agency at Muara Bungo would be supplemented by the internationally
and locally recruited consultants attached to each agency. On site staff
from line agencies, headed by a deputy field or a site manager, would be
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project at each of the five
sites. The head of field operations of each agency at Muara Bungo, or his
superior at the provincial level, would be a member of the Provincial Committee
for Transmigration, headed by the Governor. In this manner, project management
would liaise and coordinate with the provincial authorities. Assurances
were obtained that:
(a) by June 30, 1979 GOI would appoint the following qualified and
experienced staff after affording the Bank Group an opportunity
to comment on the qualifications and experience of the Project
Coordinator; (i) a Project Coordinator in Jakarta to coordinate the
activities of the Government's agencies involved with the project;
(ii) a Regional Project Coordinator at the field project headquarters
to coordinate the activities of the regional implementing agencies;
and (iii) for each of DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC a site manager
at each settlement area to be responsible for the day-to-day operations
of the agency; and



- 48 -
(b) by June 30, 1979 GOI would designate for each of DGH, DGT, DGFCA,
DGLS and DGC a Liaison Officer in Jakarta and at field project
headquarters.
4.07       Work prograias would be prepared by the various site managers in
consultation with the regional project manager. These work programs would be
prepared on an annual lba;Li and adjusted quarterly. They would specify the
locations and schedules of work to be undertaken and it would be the task of
the-Regional Project Coordinator to see that the work programs of the various
line agencies were articulated with one another and consistent with the
overall project timetables. Upon receiving approval for their various work
programs from the Regional Project Coordinator the line agencies would
forward them to their Jakarta offices where they would be integrated into the
overall work plan of the appropriate Directorate General. Upon finalization
the work plans would be then submitted to the Project Coordinator for his
comment and approval. Once all. work programs had been finalized the individual
line agencies would subrmit budget requests for their work programs to the
Ministry of Finance.  Folllowing the satisfactory completion of works the
agencies would submit disburselaent applications for Bank Group funds through
the Project Coordinator. During the implementing of project works any signifi-
cant deviation from the work program would have to be approved by the Regional
Project Coordinator qu)o woulld then be responsible for communicating the
nature of the change and its implications to the other executing agencies and
to the Project Coordinator in Jakarta. Serious shortfalls in performance
would be the subject of discuission between the Project Coordinator and the
Liaison Officer within the executing agency. Serious implementation problems
would be referred to the TCU for resolution.
4.08      DGH is currently the agency responsible for the design and con-
struction of site preparation aspects (land clearing and road constructionl)
of all transmigration projects. In preparation for the execution of its part
of the proposed project, its staff has been augmented through the acquisition
of about 160 construction supervisors about 80 of whom have already undergone
training on land clearing standards and techniques (para. 4.13) Through the
training to be carried out under the project (para. 4.12), its staff would
further be upgraded to enable it to prepare and execute future projects.
With this upgraded staff, and the assistance of internationally recruited and
local consultants to be engaged under the project (para. 3.29), DGH should be
able to carry out its part of the work.
4.09       DGT is responsible for the construction of settler housing and
water supply, cooperative and community facilities, settler mobilization and
transportation, distribution of subsistence supplies to settlers, and the
organization and training of settlers for their new environment. In doing
this work DGT has to communicate and coordinate with the other agencies who
would normally be involved in such activities, such as the Directorate
General of Housing (Cipta Karya) in the Ministry of Public Works, and other
Directorate Generals in the Ministries of Home Affairs, Communications,
Education and Health. In preparation for its added responsibilities under



- 49 -
the project as well as the overall transmigration program, its staff would be
strengthened at the provincial, kabupaten and village levels to facilitate
the mobilization of transmigrants at the points of origin and to speed up the
orderly distribution of families to the settlement sites. It would also make
arrangements with the Ministry of Communications for the significant increase
in transportation of migrants by land, sea and, possibly, by air. With its
strengthened staff, and with the assistance of internationally recruited and
local consultants to be engaged under the project, DGT should be able to
undertake its part of the work.
4.10      DGLS is responsible for the providing of supplemental draft animals
and pastures in each site, and DGFCA for the introduction of seed farms and a
plant protection brigade in the project area, distribution of seeds, seed-
lings, fertilizers and pesticides to settlers, establishment of demonstration
plots and areas, provision of extension advice in the project area, and
surveying soils at Alai Hilir and any proposed future settlement sites.
DGFCA would contract with the Directorate General of Estates for the supply
of perennial seedlings to the transmigrants. ARD is responsible for the
researching of agricultural problems at these sites and any proposed future
settlement sites. DGF would be responsible for the surveying of timber
resources at Alai Hilir and any proposed future settlement sites. The above
MIOA agencies currently have provincial staff in Jambi. To enable them to
carry out the added responsibilities under the project, however, the agricul-
tural staffs in this province would be strengthened through the recruitment
of additional personnel from among the graduates of local universities and
technical high schools. With this strengthened staff, and with the assistance
of internationally recruited and local consultants to be engaged under the
project, 140A agencies should be able to cope with their part of the work.
4.11      Assurances were obtained that (i) GOI would cause the JMT, DGH,
DGT, DGFCA, DGLS, DGC and all other agencies engaged in project implementa-
tion to be adequately staffed to carry out their responsibilities under the
project; and (ii) each participating agency would prepare a detailed plan of
operation indicating how it would handle its responsibilties and duties under
the project and submit this plan to the Bank Group for review and comment by
June 30, 1980.
Training
4.12      The proposed project would provide for the training of JMT, DGT,
DGH, DGFCA, DGLS, DGC and DGA personnel to upgrade their capability to
implement this project as well as future projects on the transmigration
program.  Within the Ministry of Transmigration and Manpower the Office of
the Junior IMinister would receive assistance in assessing staff needs and
designing appropriate training programs through the management assistance
team subcontracted by OPE. DGT would receive technical assistance to provide
training for staff at all levels through a grant from UNDP administered by
FAO.



- 50 -
4.13      About 80 DGH construction supervisors have already undergone
training on land clearing standards and techniques, and about 80 more are
currently being trained. Under the project, this ongoing program would be
expanded to include training of about 10 planning and 50 design engineers and
about 120 additional construction supervisors. The training programs would
be set up with the assistance of DGH consultants (para 3.29, i). The train-
ing program for planning engineers would focus on the interpretation of
topographic and soil survey data as a basis for the selection of viable
agricultural sites and the alignment of access and village roads. Design
engineers would undergo training in the preparation of site grading plans,
layout of roads and design of structures, while construction supervisors
would receive training on interpretation of construction drawings, quick
determination of slopes on the ground and familiarity with tolerable limits
of soil disturbance during land clearing operations.
4.14      Training programs for DGT personnel would include cost accounting
and financial management; for DGFCA personnel, uplanrl food cropping tech-
niques in Sumatra, including soil conservation techniques, the setting-up of
simple fertilizer trials and demonstration areas of cropping patterns for
PPLs; and for DGC personnel, farmer cooperative establishment and management,
bookkeeping and accounting, fertilizer handling and rice drying, milling, and
and handling for the proposed KUD manager.
Agricultural Support Services
4.15      The provision of adequate agricultural support services is vital to
the project's success. The Ministry of Agriculture (M4OA), Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) and Directorate General of Cooperatives (DGC) would be the
main agencies involved in this work. As the project areas are at present
practically unpopulated, in most instances the agencies would be introducing
services in the area for the first time.
4.16      Seeds, Fertilizer and Pesticide.  The project, through the DGFCA,
would supply each transmigrant family upon their arrival at the site with an
initial package of food crop and vegetable seeds and perennial seedlings for
planting in their food crop and garden areas. As part of the land clearing
process all cleared food crop areas would be top-dressed with 500 kg/ha of
rock phosphate. Additionally, for the first three years of settlement, DGFCA
would annually supply each transmigrant family, including the existing 4,000
settler families, with 130 kg of urea, 130 kg of TSP, four liters of appro-
priate pesticide and 0.5 kg of systemic pesticide for dusting seed, and
0.5 kg of rodenticide per family. Another 0.5 kg of other poison (for use
against wild animals) per family would be provided to the rural extension
centers (RECs) for distribution to families only when the field extension
workers (PPLs) consider necessary. The PPL would supervise the application
of any poisons. The initial seed package would contain sufficient upland
rice and corn seed to allow the farmer to replant part of his area should he
h a crop failure in the first year of cropping.  Table 4.1 shows the seed,
fertilizer and pesticide packages.



- 51 -
4.17      DGFCA would be responsible for procuring and distributing the
initial seeds and seedling package to transmigrants. For the seeds, DGFCA
would order appropriate strains of upland seeds from seed growers in Sumatra
or upland areas of Java at least one season before they would be required.
DGFCA would contract with the Directorate General of Estates (DGE) to produce
the perennial seedlings, and DGE would most probably have PTP VI and other
suitably located estates carry out the contract. DGFCA would have the seeds
and seedlings delivered to the cooperative warehouses in each village, and
would arrange for the PPLs to distribute them to the farmers. The seedlings
would be distributed as soon as possible after arrival on site. DGFCA would
also procure and supply to the project sites the rock phosphate and the
transmigrants' initial three years supply of fertilizers and pesticides. The
rock phosphate would have to be imported and would require about eight months
to order and deliver to the project site. The first shipment should be
stored at the appropriate sites ready for contractors to spread by July 1980.
As rock phosphate would be applied at 500 kg/ha, the project would require
some 20,000 tons (allowing for wastage, seed farms and cattle holding areas).
For the annual fertilizer/pesticide package, DGFCA would have the fertilizer
and pesticide delivered to the village fertilizer storage (kiosk) where the
KUD manager would distribute it to individual farmers. The KUD manager would
be assisted by the farmer leaders of the KUD, and would coordinate with the
PPL. He would keep records of the distribution, and in later years, repay-
ments for the package. In year one, farmers would make no repayment; in year
two, they would repay 50% of all the costs to the farmer group; in year
three, 75% of the costs. In year four, the KUD would procure all fertilizers
and pesticides and the farmers would repay 100% of all costs. The money
collected during years two and three would be used as a revolving credit fund
for the farmer group, and in year four and afterwards be lent at an appro-
priate interest rate to the KUD members to purchase inputs. DGFCA would
construct a 250 ton transit fertilizer warehouse in each SKP. Fertilizer
would be delivered to this warehouse twice a year where it would be stored
for replenishing the village kiosks. Table 4.2 shows by year the amounts of
fertilizer and pesticides DGFCA would have to provide in the project areas.
At full agricultural development project area farmers would require some
4,420 tons of urea and 4,420 tons of TSP annually. DGFCA would establish and
staff one Plant Protection Brigade (PPB) in a central location to forecast
and monitor crop pest and disease problems, to advise farmers on crop pro-
tection methods, and to organize and combat large pest and disease outbreaks
(equipment list, Annex 1, Table 9). The PPB would be equipped with mist
blowers, midget dusters, and a stock of pesticides. DGFCA would distribute
the following agricultural tools to each family: a hoe, heavy knife, sickle,
weed and fork. A hand sprayer would be distributed for every 20 families,
and stored by individual farmers. Because of the importance of fertilizer
and pesticides in the success of the proposed food cropping program, assur-
ances were obtained from GOI that DGFCA would supply fertilizer and pesticides
to the transmigrants participating in the project for the initial three
cropping years.
4.18      Seed Farms.  DGFCA would be responsible for building, equipping and
staffing two seed farms in the project areas to supply future seed require-
ments of the transmigrant and local communities. Each seed farm would consist



- 52 -
of about 40 ha of cleared land (top-dressed with 500 kg/ha of rock phosphate)
for the multiplication of food crop seeds (upland rice, corn, soybeans,
peanuts, mung beans, ricebean, and cowpeas). The seed farm personnel would
establish associated contract seed growers (around 500 ha/seed farm) among
the closer, better farmers. The Central Research Institute of Agriculture
(CRIA) at Bogor would supply foundation seed to the seed farms which they
would multiply to produce stock seed. The stock seed would be supplied to
the contract seed growers who would produce extension seed for sale to
farmers. DGFCA would also equip the seed farms with sufficient drying and
cleaning facilities to handle the stock and extension seed produced facili-
ties would either be located at the farm or a central location, this to be
decided during project implementation.  Assuming project area farmers
changed upland rice seed every fourth season, they would require some
340 tons of extension upland rice seed annually.
4.19      RECs.  DGFCA would be responsible for establishing, equip-
ping and staffing five RECs, one at each project site. DGFCA would staff
each REC with 2 middle level extension workers (PPMs) and sufficient PPLs to
maintain a ratio of 1 PPL to 500 farmers. The RECs would require a total of
10 PPMs and 81 PPLs. Two subject matter specialists (PPSs) would be added to
the Provincial T)GFC staff to be in charge and assist in the running of the
extension services in the project areas. If possible DGFCA would assign only
experienced PPLs for the transmigration areas, and the PPLs assigned for this
project would be trained in upland agriculture for six months prior to
initial posting. Training would most probably be done in Lampung Province at
the Tani Makmur Project training center. While the PPMs would be provided
with housing near or adjacent to the RECs, the PPLs would be housed in the
villages they would serve, and the two PPSs would be stationed at Muara
Bungo. Additionally, seven farmer workers (mantri tani) would be hired and
posted at subdistrict (kecamatan) agricultural offices. Each PPL would be
responsible for 500 farmers divided into ten farmer groups. Each farmer
group would consist of one contact farmer, five advanced farmers and 44
ordinary farmers. Each PPL would be provided with pamphlets on crop produc-
tion for distribution to farmers, and sufficient materials to establishl
tenonstration plots and areas. REC personnel would provide extension ser-
vices both for the new and existing settlers at project sites. The REC
personnel would also establish fertilizer and crop rotation trials on major
soil types at each site.  Since extension services are vital to the success
of the project an assurance was obtained that, except as the  Bank Group may
otherwise agree, DGFCA would construct and staff the required RECs in the
project areas prior to the arrival of the transmigrant families.
4.20      Cattle.  Under the project the DGLS would purchase and distribute
8,750 head of cattle to the transmigrants, 7,900 at the four new sites and
850 at Singkut. DGLS would establish and staff a cattle Reception and
Distribution Center (RDC) with pastured holding grounds, cattle yards and
dip at a central project location. DGLS would also establish bull units in
all villages throughout the five sites. The project would provide DGLS with
adequate area for the RDC (around 200-300 ha) and the bull units. The



- 53 -
female portion of the cattle should be 7/8 to pure Brahman, and some 8,330
(7,520 for the four new sites and 810 for Singkut) non-pregnant, 12-18 month
old heifers should be imported from a suitable, major-disease-free, source.
DGLS would procure some 420 bulls (380 for new sites, 40 for Singkut), giving
a 5% bull-to-cow percentage. About 20% of the bulls would be imported, and
would be 3-4 year old selected, commercial Brahman bulls. The remaining 80%
would be procured locally, and would be 3-4 year old, selected Sumba/Ongle
cross. DGLS would not purchase any cattle until the RDC and pastured holding
grounds are ready, and sufficient transmigrants have established pasture to
allow distribution of the cattle and bulls. The initial stock of cows would
go to those transmigrants who first establish pasture for the cattle, and who
are judged best suited to handle and care for them. Farmers, who would
receive cattle, would be expected to have cleared and established about 0.25
ha of suitable pasture (such as, Stylosanthes schofield or Stylosanthes cook)
on the initially uncleared portion (2.25 ha) of their holding. The cattle
would be distributed in villages throughout the whole project area, and not
concentrated in a few villages. The transmigrants would then repay the first
calf (at two years old), whether male or female, from their original cow to
the DGLS for future distribution in the project area. DGLS would also
provide the farmers with livestock extension services. DGLS would keep
ownership of the bulls, and the village head, with help from other village
cattle owners, and guidance from the DGLS extension personnel, would be
responsible for running the bull unit. At some stage the KUD may purchase
the bulls.
4.21      Farmers Cooperatives.  In each of some 82 villages, including those
of the 4,000 existing families, DGT would build one 50 sq m warehouse (kiosk)
for fertilizer storage and distribution, one 100 sq m warehouse for grain
receival and storage, one 500 sq m drying floor; one small rice mill (1-2 ton
rice/day) for local consumption milling; one 30 sq m rice mill shelter; and
office space (15 sq m) for the farmer cooperative (KUD). The DGC would train
and appoint a manager for each KUD, and ensure that the manager is on-site
when the first transmigrants arrive. DGC would pay for the cost of the
managers for the first four years; after this the KUD members would be
expected to pay for their services. The DGC would also be responsible for
maintaining the village cooperative infrastructure until the KUDs are able to
operate and maintain it themselves. DGC would establish a training program
for the KUD managers so that they would be adequately prepared for their
posting to a village. In the early project phase, DGC would train and post
more than one manager to each village so that they would obtain work exper-
ience before taking up their eventual appointment. The KUD managers would be
responsible for forming the KUDs; running and maintaining the infrastructure,
distributing fertilizer and pesticides and establishing the revolving credit
funds for the group (para. 4.17). DGC would also maintain staff at the
project site and at the project center (tluara Bungo) levels to advise,
supervise and train staff from the village cooperatives. When the KUD are
able to adequately operate and maintain the infrastructure, DGC would trans-
fer ownerslhip of it to the KUD. To ensure that the cooperatives are soundly
managed and the infrastructure and equipment properly operated and main-
tained, assurances were obtained that DGC would appoint qualified personnel
to assist the cooperatives, and they would be retained for at least four



- 54 -
years, during which time DGC would pay their salary and allowances. These
personnel would be in residence on the site at every village as the villagers
are settled.
4.22      BRI.  The BRI would staff at least one village unit bank at each
of the five settlement locations. BRI would provide banking facilities for
farmers, or for groups, to deposit money such as the proposed farmers revolving
credit funds.  It would also provide at the village unit offices mini-credits,
amounts from Rp 10,000 to Rp 100,000 for buying cattle, agricultural equipment
or working capital. The term would be three years for investment credit, and
one year for working capital; the interest rate would be 12% per year and the
borrower must give security (equipment, land, house) for his loan. The
present ceiling any one village unit office can make in mini-credits is
Rp 3.5 million.
4.23      Research.  The project would provide funds for the Central Research
Institute in Agriculture (CRIA), amongst other things, to continue research
into upland cropping practices at the project site and other potential areas
for transmigration in the Other Islands. An assurance was obtained from GOI
that DGFCA would submit to the Bank Group for review and approval the terms
of reference of the agricultural studies it wishes to undertake under the
project by September 30, 1979.
Operation and Maintenance
4.24      All access and village roads constructed by DGH under the project
would be turned over to the Provincial Government of Jambi. During project
implementation the Provincial Public Works, using a special group from DGH,
would be responsible for maintaining them, while after project completion the
Kabupaten Public Works would have this responsibility. An assurance was
obtained from GOI that all roads constructed under the project would be
adequately and timely maintained by the appropriate district agencies after
project completion.
4.25      Public buildings and community facilities constructed by DGT would
be turned over to the appropriate ministries, which would thereafter assume
responsibility for their operation and maintenance. The Ministry of Religion
would supply a religious leader to the place of worship constructed in each
village. The Directorate General of Education, Ministry of Education, would
supply the teachers to the schools constructed in the project area, and would
supervise the education curricula and all related activities. The Directorate
General of Community Health would supply staff for the health center at each
site and the health post in each village, and would arrange for the appro-
priate health and nutrition activities. The Ministry of Home Affairs would
appoint village officials and make the necessary arrangements for the inte-
gration of the new village into the existing district and provincial govern-
mental structure.
4.26      Facilities for agricultural support services constructed by DGFCA
and DGLS would be operated and maintained by these agencies out of their
annual budgetary allocations. Facilities and equipment of village cooperatives
constructed by DGT, would be turned over to DGC, which would operate and



- 55 -
maintain them until the cooperatives become financially viable enterprises.
The management of the cooperatives would thereafter be turned over to the
staff appointed by the members, and the infrastructure to the KUDs, and
operation and maintenance expenses as well as replacement of facilities and
equipment would henceforth be met from earnings.



- 56 -
Table 4.1:  SEEDS AND FERTILIZER PACKAGES
Seeding rate         Total/family       Unit Cost   Total Cost
(kg/ha)               (kg)            (Rp/kg)      (Rp'000)
1.  Initial Seeds and Perennial Seedling Package
Food Crop Seeds
Upland rice                            50                   50                    220          11.0
Maize                                  10                   10                    150           1.5
Cassava                                 -                2,000 (cuttings)           3          6.0
Soybean                                30                    3                    500           1.5
Peanut                                120                   12                    500           6.0
1Mung bean                             20                    2                    350           0.7
Cowpea                                 20                    2                  1,200          2.4
Subtotal                                                                                  29.1
Vegetable Seeds                                               (g)                   (Rp/g)
Chili                                   -                  100                      10          1.0
String bean                             -                  200                       3         0.6
Miscellaneous                           -                   75                       3          0.6
Subtotal                                               500                                 2.2
Perennial Seedlings                                           (No.)             (Rp/unit)
Jack fruit (plants)                     -                    4                    200           0.8
Banana (suckers)                        -                   15                    250           3.8
Rambatan (plants)                       -                    4                    500           2.0
Papaya (plants)                         -                    5                    250           1.2
Pineapple (slips)                       -                   50                     50           2.5
Coconut (seedlings)                     -                   15                    700         10.5
Clove (plants)                          -                    4                    350           1.4
Coffee (seedling)                       -                   30                    250           7.5
Subtotal                                               127                                29.7
Total Seeds Package Cost                                                                    61.0
2. Fertilizer and Pesticide Package
(kg)               (Rp/kg)
Urea                                                     130                    120          15.6
TSP /a                                                   130                    116          15.1
Pesticide (general) (liter or kg)                          4                  6,500         26.0
Pesticide (seed dusting) /b                              0.5                  6,500           3.3
Rodenticide                                              0.5                  3,000           1.5
Total Cost                                                                              61.5
/a Triple superphosphate.
/b This should be a systemic pesticide for treating seed before planting. Besides these two
pesticides, a poison suitable against wild animals such as pigs and monkeys (0.5 kg/
family) would be stored at the REC or kiosk. It would only be distributed to farmers
if the PPLs considered it necessary.



- 57 -
Table 4.2:  DGFCA:  ANNUAL AGRICULTUPAL INPUTS REOUIRaNENTS  /a
Quantity Required on Site
1980        1981       1982       1983       1984       1985        1986
Commodity                   Unit        Apr-Dec    Apr-Oct   Apr-Oct   Apr-Oct   Apr-Oct   Apr-Oct   Apr-Oct
Fertilizer
Rock phosphate             ton          2,000       5,000      5,000      5,000       3,000        -          -
Urea                       ton             910      1,885      2,860       2,925      2,535       1,560       585
TSP                        ton             910      1,885      2,860       2,925      2,535      1,560        585
Total                  ton           3,820      8,770      10,720    10,850       8,070       3,120    1,170
Agrochemicals
Pesticide                '000 1 Ag          28         58         88          90         78         48         18
Systemic pesticide         ton             3.5        7.3          11       11.3        9.8           6       2.3
Initial Seed
Upland rice                ton             150        375        375         375        225        -          -
Corn                       ton              30         75          75         75         45        -          -
Cassava               mln cuttings           6         15          15         15        -          -          -
Soybean                    ton               9       22.5       22.5        22.5       13.5        -          -
Peanut                     ton              36         9n          90         90         54        -          -
Mung bean                  ton               6         15          15         15          9        -          -
Cowpea                     ton               6         15          15         15          9        -          -
Vegetable                  ton             1.5        3.8        3.8         3.8        2.3        -          -
Seedlings ('000)
Jack fruit               plants             12         30         30          30         18        -          -
Banana                  suckers             45      112.5      112.5      112.5        67.5        -          -
Rambutan                 plants             12         30         30          30         18         -         -
Papaya                   plants             15       37.5       37.5        37.5       22.5        -          -
Pineapple                slips             150        375        375         375        225         -         -
Coconut                  seedlings          45      112.5      112.5       112.5       67.5        -          -
Clove                    plants             12         30          30         30         18         -         -
Coffee                   seedlings          90        225        225         225        135        -          -
/a  These are the quantities DGFC would have to supply during the project's implementation.  The KUDs
would be responsible for ordering fertilizer after DGFC had supplied the transmigrants for their
initial three years on site.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION 11
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
Junior Minister
of Transmigration
Directorate               DGH                           DGT                                                                      DGFCA                           DGC
General
Liason Officers          Liason                        Liason                                                                     Liason                        Liason
in Jakarta             Officer                      Officer                                                                    Officer                       Officer
Project Coordinator     C        _  _   _
Provincial             Provincial                    Provincial                                                                 Provincial                    Provincial                U
Level                  Staff                         Staff                                                                      Staff                         Staff                   OD
Regional                        _                   _
| -|, _   _  -        -  -  -         -~      Project Coordinator
40.1~~~~~~~~~~4
AT Project              Liason                        Liason                                                        ONLiason                                   Liason
Headquarters             Officer                       Officer                                                             |      Officer                       Officer
On-SiteSite                           Site                                                                       Site                          Site
On-Site           |     Managers                      Managers                                                                   Managers                       Managers    |;
Staff           |         1(5)                         (5)                                                                         (5)                           (5)                      r_
World Bank - 19680



- 59 -
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      The project would make rainfed agricultural production possible on
36,000 ha by clearing presently forested areas and providing extension services,
seeds, fertilizer, pesticides, plant protection services, and drying, proces-
sing and storage facilities and services. Of this area transmigrant families
would farm 30,000 ha to annual food crops and 6,000 ha to gardens of vege-
tables, fruit trees and perennial tree crops.  By also providing the existing
settlers with agricultural supporting services for the areas they are already
farming (1.2 ha/family) the project would increase agricultural production on
an additional 4,800 ha of rainfed land. Details of cropping patterns, yields
and production are discussed below.
Cropping Patterns
5.02      Existing Settlers.  The existing settlers are growing a variety of
rainfed food crops, such as upland rice, corn, cassava, soybeans, and other
legumes. They usually intercrop the rice, corn and cassava, planting them in
the wet season, while growing the leguminous crops during the dry season.
The settlers have also established house gardens containing vegetables and
tree crops, such as coconuts, cloves, coffee, bananas and different fruit
trees. Farmers are using little or no fertilizer and other crop inputs, and
at present average upland paddy yields are near 0.7 ton/ha. In the future,
without fertilizer, average crop yields would quickly drop to 0.5 ton/ha for
paddy; 0.4 ton/ha for corn and 6.0 ton/ha (wet tuber) for cassava. In the
future with the proposed project the existing settlers are expected to follow
the same cropping pattern as proposed for the new settlers in the section
below.
5.03      Future Cropping Patterns.  The project would provide each transmi-
grant family with 1.25 ha of clean cleared land, consisting of a 0.25 ha
houselot and garden (0.2 ha garden area, 0.05 ha buildings area), and a
1.0 ha food crop area. The land would be ploughed, top-dressed with 500 kg/ha
of rock phosphate, and generally ready for planting to food crops when the
transmigrants arrive on site. As large-scale food cropping is a new develop-
ment in the area, future cropping patterns are difficult to precisely define.
However, the following general pattern is expected to emerge at full project
development based on existing upland cropping patterns and yields under
similar rainfall and soil conditions in Sumatra; applicable research work
undertaken by CRIA at its research sites of Gunung Sugih in Lampung province
since 1968, and the transmigration sites of Way Abung and Baturaja (Bank Group
assisted under Loan 1318-IND) since 1976, and particularly the research
work of the Japanese-aided Tani Makmur project in Lampung since 1973; and
present information on potential and available markets for food crops grown in
Sumatra. At the beginning of the wet season, farmers would interplant upland
rice at about 95% of normal plant population (some 160,000 plants/ha), and
corn at about 30% of normal plant population (some 10,000 plants/ha) over the



- 60 -
entire food crop area of the farm (1.0 ha)./l About one month later, they
would interplant cassava at a density of some 5,000 plants/ha into the rice
and corn. However, only 0.4 ha/farm would be intercropped with cassava.
After farmers harvest the rice and corn for the dry season they would plant
0.5 ha/farm with high value leguminous crops (such as soybeans, groundnuts or
mung beans) and another 0.1 ha/farm with lower value leguminous crops (such as
cowpeas or ricebean).  The cassava would be allowed to grow right through the
wet and dry seasons, and would be harvested near the end of the dry season.
At all times farmers would attempt to keep their land under crop or stubble
cover to prevent weed growth and erosion. Cassava is an ideal crop to do this
during the dry season. There is some doubt concerning the size of the current
market for cassava grown in the project area. Hence at present a lower level
of production is being suggested than is potentially possible. Should the
proposed market study (para. 6.05) suggest a higher production of cassava can
be marketed, then cassava could play a much larger part in the overall farm
cropping pattern. The area of leguminous cash crops is constrained by insect
attack (pod borers) and all farmers would have to spray their crops to combat
these pests. Cowpeas are relatively drought resistant and can tolerate low
rainfall and humidity conditions during their late growth stages. They can be
grown throughout the dry season at the project area and are thus an excellent
crop to provide ground cover during the latter stages of the dry season.
Cropping patterns would of course vary between different sites depending on
the rainfall and length of the dry season. At sites with well distributed
rainfall throughout the whole year and a mild dry season farmers may well be
able to grow two upland rice crops per year. At all sites, however, farmers
must use annual fertilizer dressings and farming practices that would minimize
soil erosion, such as planting crops on the contour, leaving crop stubble on
or in the ground, and planting some of their perennial seedlings along the
contour guidelines. Farmers would plant their gardens with vegetables and the
rest of the perennial seedlings supplied in the seed package.
Yields and Production
5.04      At full agricultural development the wet season paddy yields are
estimated to average 1.7 ton/ha and corn 0.8 ton/ha, while dry season
soybean yields would average 0.7 ton/ha, cowpeas 0.6 ton/ha, and cassava
12.0 ton/ha (wet tuber). For the project analysis, soybean production has
been used to represent the high-value leguminous crops, and cowpea production
the lower-value leguminous crops. These projected yields would be achieved
five years after the commencement of cropping. They are contingent upon the
transmigrants receiving and using extension services, good seed, adequate
fertilizer and pesticide inputs, and crop protection services. Table 5.1
/1 Although some stumps would be left on the food crop areas, farmers would
be able to cultivate and plant their crops right up to and around the
stumps. The loss of cultivable land would not be great, and during the
early years while the farmers are destumping their land, they could grow
food crops in part of the garden area. For these reasons farmers are
assumed to have 1.0 ha under food crops from the start of the project.



- 61 -
shows the projected full development cropping patterns and production at each
project site. At full agricultural development of the food cropping areas,
about five years after the completion of project works, annual total paddy
production would be approximately 58,000 tons; corn 27,000 tons; cassava
163,000 tons, soybean 12,000 tons and cowpeas 2,000 tons. The annual total
house garden production has not been shown. In calculating project benefits
in chapter 7, however, a value has been placed on this production.
Cropping Calendar
5.05      Figure 5.1 shows the proposed cropping calendar for the inter-
cropped paddy, corn and cassava and leguminous cash crops in the project
areas. Depending on the beginning of the wet season rains, farmers would
usually cultivate their land for the wet season crop during August to
September. They would directly sow corn and rice into the seed bed around
September to October, and cassava into the corn and rice during October.
Farmers would harvest the corn and rice during January to February and the
cassava in June and July. They would cultivate for the legumes in February
to March, sow during March to April, and harvest May to June. Apart from the
climate, the proposed cropping calendar has also taken into account the peak
labor demands for each of the field operations.
Drying, Processing and Storage
5.06      Farmers would sun-dry their crops in open areas around their houses
or at the drying floor the project would provide in each village. Besides
this drying floor, the project would also provide each village with a small
rice mill and warehouse suitable for storing food grains. While farmers could
mill their paddy at the village rice mill, they would store food grains for
their own use or later sale in their houses or farm buildings. The processing
of cassava would depend on the results of a proposed study to be under-
taken shortly in the project area (para. 6.05).



- 62 -
Table 5.1 CROPPING PATTERNS AND PRODUCTION
At Full Agricultural Development/a
Area           Yield          Production
('000 ha)        (ton/ha)        ('000 tons)
Existing Settlers
Wet season - paddy /b                    4.0            1.7                6.8
- corn                       4.0            0.8                3.2
Dry season - cassava                     1.6           12.0               19.2
soybean /c                 2.0            0.7                1.4
cowpea /d                  0.4            0.6                0.2
New Transmigrants
Wet season - paddy                      30.0            1.7               51.0
- corn                      30.0            0.8               24.0
Dry season - cassava                    12.0           12.0              144.0
- soybean                   15.0            0.7               10.5
- cowpea /d                  3.0            0.6                1.8
Total Annual Production
Paddy                                   34.0             -                57.8
Corn                                    34.0             -                27.2
Cassava                                 13.6             -               163.2
Soybean                                 17.0             -                11.9
Cowpea                                   3.4             -                 2.0
Total Net Area Harvested
Wet season                              34.0
Dry season                              34.0
Total                                 68.0
/a In 1989/90.
/b Paddy yields are quoted in mill-dry unhusked grain (gabah kering giling,
14% moisture); corn is in dry grain 14% moisture; cassava is in wet tuber;
and soybean in dry grain.  All crops are rainfed.
/c Soybean represents a composite group of leguminous crops including soybean,
groundnut, and mung bean.
/d Cowpea represents a composite group of leguminous crops including ricebean
and cowpeas.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION 11
Proposed Cropping Calendar
. F                M        A        M         .                            S        0         N        D
WET SEASON                                                                                                     l
Iliiercropped.                                                                                        C
Uplaind Paddy, Corn, Cassdva                                                                           R
M                                                                        M
HR
HC
Uplald Paddy, Corti
=    =      M        _ ~~HRM
____________                         __ ___              __     ___                                                                                                          0"
DHY SEASON                                        C
Soybeaii                                             P      _                                                         Notation:
m M  _   i _ t _C   -  Cultivate
P   -Pant
jm~~~~~~~ ~PR  -Plant Rice, Corn
Cowpea                                                                                                               PC  -  Plant Cassava
M -Manage
C  ~~~~~~i~~~~ ~H   -Harvest
HR  -  Harvest Rice, Corn
HC  -Harvest Cassava
AVERAGE RAINFAIL nImn)              400 -350                                                                                                         360
North ol Region ----                                                                                                                      330
South ol Region                   300 =              290      300      300                                                       290                330
---          250                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~310
20280   240   1   280            270                       L__1010220                     260
210   140                   2200
180
100   _130  -                                                       -      140
World Bank -19831



- 64 -
6.  MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FAMI INCOMES A1iD PROJECT CHARGES
Miarket Prospects
6.01      Despite strong and continuing efforts to increase production, rice
imports ranged between 0.5 and 1.3 million tons from 1969-74 and rose to
about 2.5 million tons in 1977/78. In addition imports of wheat rose during
the same period to a level of one million tons per year. Assuming that heavy
investments in irrigation and development of new land continue, deficits
could be reduced somewhat but would remain at a level of about two million
tons of food grains in 1990. The production and consumption of secondary
crops (such as corn, cassava, soybeans and groundnuts) has stagnated since
the late 1960s. Since 1975, GOI has imported soybeans, while corn, which was
exported prior to 1975, is no longer exported. The quantities of cassava
exported have steadily fallen since 1969, with the domestic market absorbing
the decrease in export volume. Production of these crops urgently needs to be
expanded to help close the gap between the domestic supply and demand for
food; to substitute secondary crops for some of the demand for rice; and to
meet the increasing demand for feedgrains. Additionally, there still remain
export possibilities for both cassava and corn.
6.02      Most of Sumatra is currently a food deficit area.  An estimated 50%
of the paddy and secondary crops produced under the project would be consumed
in the project areas, while the balance would be mainly marketed in Padang and
Jambi or exported to Jakarta. Location of the project along the Trans-
Sumatra Highway and the major river systems of the Batang Hari, Batang
Tembesi and Musi Rivers provides ready access and cheap transport to major
port cities.
6.03      Initially, farmers are expected to sell their surplus paddy and corn
production through the village cooperatives (KUDs). The KUDs are the village
purchasing agents for the Government's rice procurement authority (BULOG/DOLOG),
which maintains a floor price for paddy throughout Indonesia. This is currently
Rp 74.0 (US$0.12)/kg /1 for 14% moist paddy at the village, or Rp 75.0/kg if the
farmer delivers the paddy to the KUD warehouse. The Government recently
empowered BULOG/DOLOG to also purchase corn through the KUDs. These would
buy 14% moist yellow corn with no more than 5% impurities from farmers for
Rp 42.5 (US$0.07)/kg. DOLOG, BULOG's subsidiary in the province, would
arrange the transport of paddy and corn purchased by the KUD from the KUD
warehouse to its own storages. Soon after paddy and corn marketable surpluses
develop in the project area, private dealers and rice millers are also
expected to enter the food grain markets.
6.04      Farmers are expected to sell their surplus leguminous crops (soy-
beans, groundnuts, and cowpeas) in the local markets which would be established
at the main villages of each project site. As these crops are of high value
/1 Prices quoted are those ruling before the November 1978 devaluation.



- 65 -
and not all that bulky they can be transported considerable distances to
other markets in Indonesia. GOI, through BULOG, is currently regulating
Indonesian soybean imports so as to maintain a farm-gate price for producers
of around Rp 160 (US$0.26)/kg.
6.05      Cassava has normally been an important crop in the traditional
Sumatran and Javanese cropping system for many reasons. It is drought
resistant and provides food in the dry years when other crops fail or produce
poor yields. It can be harvested at any time between six months and 18 months
after planting thus providing a great deal of flexibility in the cropping
calendar and permitting the smallholder to spread his labor inputs over the
year. There are no major disease problems in Indonesia. Once established
the cassava provides cover for the soil protecting it from erosion and
discouraging weed growth. Cassava leaves provide a valuable source of protein.
Cassava roots in their wet form are bulky, perishable, and of relatively low
value. Once harvested it should be quickly consumed or processed. Transport
to markets depends on processing. Cassava can be marketed in two forms, as wet
root for direct consumption or for processing into starch, or dried as cassava
chips or cubes for export as animal feed. The Bank is presently organizing a
marketing study to investigate the potential demand and the required marketing
arrangements, processing and transport facilities for cassava produced in the
project areas. On the basis of this study GOI would prepare proposals for
cassava marketing arrangements which would be implemented as speedily as
possible.
6.06      As part of the land clearing process substantial amounts of timber
would be produced. A part of the timber produced by the project would be used
on site for construction of settler houses, buildings, and bridges. The
quantities of timber vary from site to site but extensive tree counts made by
0DM and others indicate that commercial logs (from trees 30 cm DBH or greater)
would total about 35 cu m per ha. Based on clearing about 45,000 ha in the
initial land clearing and producing an average of 35 cu m per ha, total timber
output during 1979-84 would amount to 1.6 million cu m. About 0.5 million cu m
would be consumed leaving 1.1 million cu m or about 370,000 cu m per year for
local sales and exports. This compares with current total national output of
about 25-30 million cu m and exports averaging 20 million cu m over the past
three years.
6.07      The Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division estimates
a gradual strengthening of timber prices over the next decade, particularly
for tropical hardwoods. However, both the volume and prices for Indonesian
hardwood exports are sensitive to the level of economic activities in the
developed countries, particularly in Japan and the US, which are the principal
markets. European, Middle East and socialist markets are expanding but on a
relatively small base. The increased output from land clearing from the
project should, however, find ready markets particularly since local markets
are currently under-supplied and local timber prices high in relation to
export markets.
6.08      To simplify the marketing of timber from the area, the Government
has decided that after the payment of the applicable charges and taxes, the
land clearing contractors could sell any timber above the quantities required



- 66 -
for project construction. Under the contract provisions (paras. 3.03, 3.05),
the contractors would have to log, saw and stack a given amount of timber,
the quantities and type to be specified by the Government for use in the
construction of project houses, and buildings, bridges and other structures
and, once all Government requirements were met, would be allowed to make his
own arrangements for selling the remainder on the open market. Because
present regulations in Indonesia restrict the marketing of trees to those
above 50 cu DBH, assurances were obtained from GOI that land clearing con-
tractors and settlers would be permitted to market timber from the areas
designated for clearing within the settlement areas regardless of the diameter
of the timber, but otherwise in accordance with the applicable Government
regulations.
Prices
6.09      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued at present and projected 1990 farm-gate prices
expressed in mid-1979 constant terms. For rice, corn, soybeans and fertilizers,
these prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts for
world market prices, and adjusted for transportation, processing and handling
costs. Table 6.1 presents the price structure for rice, corn, soybeans and
fertilizers. Cassava and the remaining crops and inputs not traded on the
international market, have been expressed in terms of actual farm-gate prices
averaged over three years (1976-78) and adjusted for inflation. Only an
estimated 10% of rice production from the project area would be milled into
high-grade rice (5% brokens); 60% would be medium-grade (25-35% brokens); and
30% would be low-grade (42% brokens). Using this quality mix and the world
market price forecasts, in the project areas the equivalent economic farm-gate
price for paddy would rise from US$177/ton in 1979 to US$212/ton in 1990 (in
terms of mid-1979 constant dollars). Historically, the Government has
followed a policy of keeping consumer food prices low by selling imported
rice below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices low. To mitigate the
effect of this policy on farm income, GOI has simultaneously subsidized
fertilizer and pesticide. In the last four years, however, GOI has substan-
tially raised domestic paddy prices to encourage rice production. This
change in policy, combined with the fall of world prices from the record
levels of 1973-74, has brought farm-gate prices fairly close to world market
levels. Thus, the floor price for paddy is now Rp 85/kg, as compared with an
imputed economic price of Rp 110/kg in the project area.  Assuming similar
levels of support in the future and given the forecast for international
prices, the floor price can be expected to reach Rp 110/kg by 1990 (in
mid-1979 prices). It is estimated that substandard cleaning and drying and
market imperfections are presently reflected in a financial farm-gate price
averaging Rp 75/kg. Assuming the continuation of these imperfections (at a
reduced rate), the financial farm-gate price would be around Rp 100/kg. The
prices of corn and fertilizers would move in a similar fashion to rice,
however legume prices are assumed to become aligned with world market prices.
Table 6.2 gives all present and future prices used in the farm budgets and
economic analyses.
6.10      The timber produced is valued at an average of US$35/cu m f.o.b.
Jambi. As export taxes are approximately US$10/cu m and transport costs
US$15/cu m, its project area value is some US$10/cu m.



- 67 -
Farm Incomes
6.11      For farm income analysis one typical farm model (1.0 ha food crops
and 0.2 ha garden) has been prepared to represent farm income for the existing
settlers and the transmigrants in the future with the project. As most of
the farm price and cost data was collected prior to the November 1978 devaluation
of the rupiah, and as the effects of this devaluation have yet to work
through the economy, and be expressed in new price and cost levels, at this
stage future farm incomes with the project cannot be estimated with great
certainty. At present, potential transmigrants, most of whom are landless
laborers in rural areas of Java, and the existing settlers in the area, earn
a minimum subsistence income, estimated at about Rp 110,000 (US$176)/year.
In the future, without the project, the existing settlers incomes may marginally
increase because of perennial crops they have planted, however, the real
incomes of potential transmigrants may actually fall because of likely
increasing unemployment in Java. For this analysis, family incomes without
the project are assumed to remain at a bare subsistence level.
6.12      The proposed future land use and cropping patterns are based on the
existing cropping practice, applicable upland cropping research, and potential
markets. For the analysis, soybean production represents a group of higher
valued leguminous cash crops such as groundnuts, mung beans and soybeans,
while cowpea production represents a group of lower valued, more drought
tolerant similar crops such as ricebean and cowpeas. Farm budgets are
calculated according to cash flows. Farm family labor has not been costed,
and it is estimated that a family would have sufficient labor to farm the
1.25 ha without hiring labor. Peak monthly labor requirements for food
cropping are estimated to be some 37 man-days in April (Annex 2, Table 4)
while the total family labor supply would be about 40 man-days per farm per
month in periods of high labor requirement. Transmigrants would pay no land
taxes (IPEDA) until DGT formally transfers administration of the settlements
to the Provincial Government. This is assumed to happen in the year following
the completion of project works. At full project development IPEDA is estimated
to reach Rp 9,000/ha or Rp 18,000/farm. As all transmigrants would be given
full title to their land, all farmers would be owner-operators with no slhare-
cropping arrangements.
6.13      Table 6.3 shows the results of the farm budget analysis.  Future
family incomes have been derived from both on and off-farm activities.
Off-farm income, mainly from employment in project construction, would be
important to the transmigrants in the early years of the settlement. Between
year one of development and full farm development in year five, net crop
incomes would grow at about 19% per year. Even allowing for the additional
cost of family farm labor and management (Table 6.4), this indicates farmers
would have sufficient financial incentive to achieve the project yields and
cropping intensities. As this analysis is based on long term average yields,
in any one or more particular years the farmer may not obtain the estimated
crop income.  Adverse WttlC, or inexperience in growing upland crops could
cause crop failure, particularly in year one or two. However, additional
rice and corn seed are included in the initial package for replanting in case
such a situation occurs. GOI would also give the settlers subsistence
assistance in the form of rice and other essential commodities during the



- 68 -
first year of settlement (para. 3.16), and if necessary because of total crop
failure, also in the second year. The estimated family income in year one of
the seti:lement is relatively high because it includes the GOI assistance, and
it assumes the farmer arrives at the site preferably just in time to sow his
wet season crops, and harvests wet and dry season crops in his first 12
months at the settlement.
6.14      Although comparisons of farm incomes based on farm budgets with
income data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with
caution, they do present an approximation of the relative position of project
beneficiaries. Present per capita family incomes of potential transmigrants
arid the existing settlers are around US$35, about 12% of the estimated 1979
per capita GNP of US$300. Providing farm family size remains constant, at
full agriculture development the projected per capita farm income is estimated
at US$125, some 20% of the then estimated per capita GNP. Should paddy
production only average 1.3 ton/ha (para. 7.08), per capita farm income would
still average US$115. The project would enable beneficiaries to significantly
improve their income levels relative to other income levels throughout the
economy. Additionally, this project only includes the first stage of developing
the farmer's land. The transmigrant would be able to further increase his
income by developing his remaining 2.25 ha, which, under the same price and
cost assumptions used here, would give him an eventual total per capita income
of around US$250.
Project Charges
6415      Except for repaying a proportion of the fertilizer and pesticide costs
in year two and three of development, project beneficiaries would pay no taxes
or direct project charges until DGT transfers admainistration of the settle-
ments to the Provincial Government, around the start of year seven. Project
farmers would then pay a land tax (IPEDA), which village heads would collect,
and would turn over to local and provincial administrations for use in public
services. However, IPEDA can be considered a direct project tax which
contributes towards the operational costs of the Governmental agencies
involved in the settlements, and to repaying the capital costs of establish-
ing the settlements. As it is assessed as a percentage of the value of farm
production, the amounts collected would increase as crop yields rise in
response to the project. At full agricultural development in the project
areas, IPEDA would reach an estimated Rp 9,000/ha.  As GOI has tied disburse-
ments under its local infrastructure development program (INPRES) to IPEDA
collection performance, IPEDA collection rates, as observed elsewhere in
Indonesia, are expected to be high.
6.16      In determining the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits, cost and rent recovery indices have been calcu-
lated. The cost recovery index is 5%, and the rent recovery index is 17%
(Table 6.4)o These recovery rates, which are low by coinparison with other
agricultural projects in Indonesia, are acceptable in view of the inherent
risk and hardship associated with the project. In addition, they are
acceptable because even at full development Farm incomes are only expected to
be 20% of esti'aated per capita GNP at that time, and because higher recovery
rates would require higher incomes, which in turn would require higher
Government investment, and would thus be self-defeating. A higher recovery
rate would be feasible, however, from investments associated with development
of the balance of the transmigrant's holding.



- 69 -
Table 6.1: PRICE STRUCTURE FOR FOOD CROPS AND FERTILIZER
(Rp and US$/ton at constant mid-1979 prices)
Food Crop and Fertilizer /a                          1979                      1990
Rp '000/ton   US$/ton   Rp '000/ton   US$/ton
Rice
Export price Thai 5% brokens
f.o.b. Bangkok                               223.8         358          283.1          453
Quality adjustment /b                           161.1         258          203.9         326
Ocean freight and insurance                      11.9          19           11.9          19
Port handling                                     2.5           4            2.5           4
Storage transport to wholesaler                  10.0          16            6.0          10
Handling transport mill to wholesaler            -2.0          -3           -6.0         -10
Rice price ex-mill, project area                183.5         294          218.3         349
Paddy equivalent price (63% recovery)           115.5         185          138.0         220
Milling costs less value of by-products          -2.0          -3           -2.0          -3
Drying and cleaning                              -1.5          -2           -1.5          -2
Handling transport farm to mill                  -2.0          -3           -1.5          -2
Farm-gate paddy price                           110.0         177          133.0         212
(financial farm-gate price)                     (75.0) /c                 (100.0)
Corn
Export price f.o.b. US Gulf port                 87.5         140          100.0         160
Ocean freight and insurance                      16.0          25           16.0          25
Port handling                                    2.5            5            2.5           4
Transport wharf to wholesaler                    10.0          16           -4.0          -6
Transport farm to wholesaler                    -2.0           -3           -1.5          -2
Farm-gate price                                 114.0         183          113.0         181
(financial farm-gate price)                     (45.0)                     (55.0)
Soybean
Export price f.o.b. US Gulf port                179.5         288          231.0         369
Ocean freight and insurance                      16.0          25           16.0          25
Port handling                                     2.5           4            2.5           4
Transport wharf to wholesaler                    10.0          16           -2.0          -3
Transport farm to wholesaler                    -2.0           -3           -1.5          -2
Farm-gate price                                 206.0         330          246.0         393
(financial farm-gate price)                   (150.0)                     (160) /d
Urea
World export price f.o.b. Europe                100.0         160          135.6         217
Ex-factory price, Palembang /f                  109.0         175          145.5         232
Handling and distribution to retail level    21.0              34           21.0          34
Transport to farm                                 2.0           3            1.5           2
Farm-gate price                                 132.0         212          168.0         268
(financial farm-gate price)                     (71.0)                     (94.0)
TSP
Export price f.o.b. US Gulf port                 79.0         127          113.5         182
Ocean freight and insurance                      14.0          22           14.0          22
Handling and distribution to retail level    21.0              34           21.0          34
Transport to farm                                 2.0           3            1.5           2
Farm-gate price                                 116.0         186          150.0         240
(financial farm-gate price)                     (71.0)                     (94.0)
/a  Prices are calculated using the official exchange rate of Rp 625 = US$1.00.
/b  Assumed rice quality:  10% high quality (5% brokens); 60% medium grade (25-30%
brokens); 30% lower grade (42% brokens). The resulting conversion factor applied
to high quality rice is 0.72.
/c  Present financial price calculated as follows:  floor price at BUUD/KUD for 14%
moist paddy Rp 75/kg; less Rp 1.5/kg drying and cleaning; Rp 2.0/kg transport
farm to BUUD/KUD; Rp 6.5/kg for market imperfections.
/d  In the future financial soybean prices are expected to become aligned with
world market prices.
/e  Export price f.o.b. US Gulf port calculated by subtracting US$6.00/ton freight
from c.i.f. Rotterdam price.
If  Urea is valued ex-PUSRI plant, Palembang.  IBRD price projections for bagged
urea f.o.b. Europe have been adjusted to Asian markets by adding a transport
premium of US$15.00/ton.



- 70 -
Table 6.2: INPUT AND OUTPUT PRICE SUMMARY
(Rp '000/ton)
1979                         1990
Financial       Economic    Financial    Economic
Crops
Paddy                           75             110            100           133
Corn                            45             114             55           113
Soybean                        150             206            160           246
Cassava                          6                6             8             8
Cowpea                         100             100            100           100
Seeds
Paddy - Farmers /a              75             110            100           133
- Extension /b          150              220           200            266
Corn                            45             114             55           113
Soybean - Farmers              150             206            160           246
- Extension           168             231            180           276
Cassava (Rp/cutting)             1                1             1             1
Cowpea                         100             100            100           100
Fertilizer
Urea                            71              132            94           168
TSP                             71             116             94           150
Other Inputs
Agrochemicals (Rp/kg
or liter)                  2,000            6,500         2,000          6,500
Zinc phosphide              3,000            3,500         3,000          3,500
Other poisons                2,000           3,600          2,000         3,600
Animal labor                 1,000           1,000          1,000         1,000
/a Farmers own seed.
/b Seed produced by farmer seed growers.



- 71 -
Table 6.3: SUMMARY OF FARM BUDGETS
A. Project Impact /a
Farm   Family       Family Income       Per Capita Income  Incremental Income
Size    Size       Present  Future      Present    Future  Family  Per capita
(ha)              ---(Rp '000)/b--       ---(US$)/b-----  ------ (US$) -----
1.25/c   5          110       390         35         125       450           90
B. With Project - Initial Six Years
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 16 /d
-----------_____--- (Rp'000)    - ----
Gross value of production         125      181     222      254     288      457
Production costs, excluding
labor                            12      43       53      58       59       85
Net value of production           113      138     169      196     229      372
GOI food assistance               170        0       0        0       0        0
Off-farm income                     0       30      30       25      20       20
Net farm income                   283      168     199      221     249      392
/a Based on Annex 2, Tables 5 and 6.
/b All income data in Section A is rounded to nearest Rp 5,000 and US$5.
/c This refers to the 1.25 ha of the transmigrant's holding developed
under this project. Total holding size is 3.5 ha/family.
/d Year of full development of fruit and cash crop trees in the garden.
Full annual crop development occurs in year five.



- 72 -
Table 6.4: RENT RECOVERY
(Rp'000)
1.25 ha Food Crop
A. At Full Agricultural Development
1.  Incremental -  Gross value of farm production /a                   347
2.               -  Less cash production costs /a                       67
3.               -  Equals net cash income                             280
4.               -  Less imputed family labor cost /b                    6
5.               -  Less imputed farmer's mangement /c                  16
6.               -  Less allowance for risk/uncertainty /d              85
7.               -  Less general taxes /e                               32
8.  Equals project rent                                                141
9.  Incremental land taxes                                              18
B. Discounted Cash Flows Over Project Life /f
10.  Project rent                                                       592
11.  Incrertmental project charges                                      101
12.  Rent recovery (%)                                                   17
Farm income per capita (1997): US$125
Critical consumption level per capita (1979): US$200
GNP per capita (1979): US$300
/a From Annex 2, Table 7 and Table 7.1.
/b Wage rate Rp 625/man-day.
/c At 5% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/d At 20% of gross value of farm production (Rp 426,000) with the project.
/e Village taxes, at 10% of incremental gross value of farm production.
/f Net present value of project rent and incremental charges, which are
discounted at 10%/year over the projects' life (30 years).



- 73 -
7. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The project would create 30,000 new farms and associated settle-
ments in Jambi province. Through land clearing, the building of roads,
houses and other infrastructure; and by providing Government administrative,
health, educational and agricultural supporting services, the project would
Tmake upland food crop production possible on 36,000 ha, and increase crop
yields and production on another 4,800 ha growing upland crops and gardens.
It would directly benefit some 34,000 farm families or 170,000 people, and by
creating potential employment opportunites in other sectors to service the
agricultural settlements, indirectly benefit at least another 17,000 families.
Besides providing the transmigrant families with a 3.5 ha farm, the project
construction would provide considerable employment opportunities to the
settlers. For example, land clearing operations would need some 1.5 million
man-days or 6,200 man-years of unskilled laborers. Farming operations would
require an additional 10.5 million man-days or 43,800 man-years of labor
annually. Additionally, most of the jobs the project would create can be
considered new jobs, as in their areas of origin the transmigrants were doing
work of low productivity and their leaving the labor force would not greatly
reduce local production. As well, service jobs such as those in administration
and health are unlikely to be reduced because the transmigrants leave an
area. Since under the project in mid-1979 constant prices the cost of
settling a family is US$4,250 (Annex 1, Table 5), US$3,100 is the cost of
creating an additional, annual job in agriculture.  This cost is expected to
decrease as spontaneous transmigrant, ire attracted to the project area, and
as farmers further develop their 3.5 ha holding.  The US$4,250 per family
cost can be compared with expenditures of US$6,600 (US$5,000 in early-1976
prices) per family for similar items under Transmigration I. The project
would serve as a nucleus for further regional development tihrough the attrac-
tion of spontaneous transmigrants; as a center for private and further
Government investment; and would enlarge and enhance services avallable to
the existing population. It would help reduce crowded conditions in the
transnigrants' home areas, and would support the Government's policies of
increasing domestic food production, employment, and the moving towards
self-sufficiency in rice production, thus reducing food grain imports.
7.02      Benefits.  Expected future crop yields and production with the
project are discussed in Chapter 5.  Chapter 6 presents the farm-gate prices
for inputs and outputs, based on the Bank Group's commodity price forecasts for
rice, corn, soybeans and chemical fertilizers, and domestic prices for other
commodities.  Annex 2, Table 2 gives the expected crop production costs and
labor requirements/ha; Table 7.1 shows the expected gross and net crop
returns/lih (without accounting for labor), the total expected agricultural
benefits at full agricultural development in the project areas, and summarizes
net agricultural benefits for the project area. The economic value of the
commercial timber cut from the project area is estimated at Rp 12,500 (US$20)/
cu m. This consists of Rp 6,250 (US$10)/cu m net value of the timber at the
project sites, and Rp 6,250/cu m export taxes paid to GOI on the sale of the
timber. An estimated 315,000 cu m would be produced in 1980/81 (July to
June) and 420,000 cu m in each of the three years 1981/82 to 1983/84. The
estimated economic value of this timber would be Rp 3.9 billion in 1980/81,
and Rp 5.3 billion in each of the other years.



- 74 -
7.03      Foreign Exchange.  As the effects of the November 1978 devaluattori
of the rupiah and any adjustments to tarifE levels which may follow will take
some time to work their way through the economy, a standard conversion factor
of 1.0 has been used for the purpose of economic analysis.
7.04      Labor Pricing.  Annex 2, Table 4 shows the monthly labor require-
ments per farm, and Table 7.2 shows the total monthly labor requirements for
crops grown in the project area.  Since labor is in short supply in most of
the project areas, the existing market wage rate (Rp 625/man-day) for
unskilled labor is high compared to Tava (Rp 300-400/man-day). There are
several constraints to the mobility of labor between lava and the project
areas. However, as the transmigrants would come from areas of Java with
overabundant labor supplies and considerable employment of extremely low
productivity, in valuing the farm labor for the economic analysis, the
agricultural wage rate has been shadow-priced. Economic wages have con-
sequently been assessed at Rp 200/man-day, the estimated value of low produc-
tive work on Java in their areas of origin, and the opportunity cost oF
discontinuing this work.
7.05      Investment Costs.  As calculated for the economic analysis and
expressed in mid-1979 prices, the total investment costs are Rp 92.4 billion.
Investment costs are net of taxes and transfer payments. In determining
their rupiah value, foreign exchange costs were converted to rupiah using the
official exchange rate (Rp 625 = US$1.00) (para. 7.03). Investment costs
have been adjusted to remove the cost of national programs which the Government
would normally provide to any community, and which would have been provided
to the families involved in this project in the without project situation.
These include administrative, ed.ucational and health services. However, the
investment costs do include the cost of providing agricultural extension and
other agricultural supporting services. Operational and maintenance costs oF
the agricultural supporting services are Rp 0.3 billion per year.
7.06      Development Period.  According to the project implementation
schedule (Figure 3.1) transmigrant families would begin arriving on site in
June 1981, and would all be settled by March 1985. Between June 1981 and
July 1, 1982, an estimated 3,000 farmilen would arrive; in 1982/83, 9,000
families; in 1983/84, 9,000 families; and for July 1984 to end-March 1985,
9,000 families. In estimat-hng the build up of project benefits, 50% of the
arrivals during any of the 12-month periods June to July would be on site in
time to grow both wet and dry-season crops harvested in that initial 12 month
period. The balance are assuiaed to only grow a dry season crop. Benefits
from the additional production of the existing settlers would commence in the
1981 wet season. Beginning with their first crop, farmers would achieve the
projected food( grain yields over five years in equal installnients. The
gardens would reach full productionl in the sixteenth year of establishment.
7.07      Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting project costs and benefits over 30 years the economic rate of
return is 12% (Table 7.3).
7.08      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
which variables would be most crucial to the success of the project. To
that end, crossover values for 10% discount rate were calculated for a number
of variables. The crossover value is the value of the variable tested for
which the project's net present value, calculated at 10% discount rate, is



- 75 -
zero, or, equivalently, the value beyond which the economic rate of return
would be below 10%. Therefore, the greater the difference between the
crossover value and the value assumed in the analysis, the less sensitive the
economic rate of return is to the tested variable.
7.09      Crossover values shown in Table 7.4 indicate the project is moderately
sensitive to an increase in project costs, and quite sensitive to a decrease
in total benefits or to a delay in the commencement of benefits. Of particular
interest, however, that paddy yields, the most important crop /1 to be pro-
duced, could fall by 20% and the project still have a 10% economic rate of
return. If the net benefits from timber sales are excluded from the economic
analysis, the rate of return falls to 9%. On the other hand, should enough
spontaneous transmigrants be attracted to fill 25% of the positions available
(7,500), the rate of return would rise to 15%.
Risks
7.10      The introduction of food crops as the settlers' main source of in-
come, and the sheer size of the project as well as the entire transmigration
program, are the major risks pertaining to the proposed project. These risks
are discussed briefly below.
7.11      Environmental. Most of the potential environmental risks associated
with the introduction of food crops relate to the land clearing phase and sub-
sequent erosion hazards. Without proper precaution, the sudden removal of the
tree canopy and exposure of the soils to the heavy rainfall could easily lead
to denudation of these fragile soils. Several precautionary measures have
been introduced to safeguard against such a development. First, all sites
have been carefully surveyed and mapped, and land clearing limited to 0-8%
slope for food crops and 8-15% for tree crops. All steeper areas would be
left in forest.  Second, on food cropping areas, interTm[t.A't contour guide-
lines of grass and trees would be established, and farmers would cultivate
and plant their crops on the contour. Third, farmers would be supplied with
fertilizers at reduced prices for the first three years; this, along with
an intensive extension effort, should ensure that they will maintain a cover
crop on their land throughout the year, thereby reducing the danger of soil
erosion.
7.12      Organizational.  While arrangements have been made urider the project
for proper land clearing and the supply of inputs and supporting services,
and the Presidential Decree of August 1978 has established a fra-nework for
closer coordination among the imapl-iieaiting agencies, the new system has yet
to be fully tested under operation. Failure on the part of the project manage-
ment to coordinate the activities of the diFFerent agencies and to provide
the settlers with adequate and timely farm inputs and supporting services
could easily lead to a substantial reduction in agricultural production and
farm incomes.  Although the danger of such a failure is real, the phas-iLg of
/1 Paddy production provides 55% of the gross value ,F i:he crop production
excluding the garden area, and 41% of the value including the garden
area.



- 76 -
settlement activities under the project, the heavy input of Government staff
and consultants, the advanced stage of project preparation, and the Govern-
ment's strong commitment to the transmigration program should help minimize
the risk.
7.13      Agricultural Considerations.  To sustain satisfactory food crop
yields on the red-yellow podzolic and latosols prevalent in the project area
requires adequate and timely applications of fertilizer. This in turn demands
an effective network for the distribution of fertilizers, including sufficient
storage space and transportation capacity, and arrangements to this end have
been included in the project. In addition, 500 kg/ha of rock phosphate would
be worked into the soil during the final stage of land preparation. Rock
phosphate gradually releases nutrients over a period of five to seven years
providing further assurance of yields even if TSP is delayed or not available.
Since the fertilizer distribution chain is still little developed, and proper
timing of fertilizer applications essential for satisfactory plant response,
the logistics of distribution would be given close attention by project
implementation and general agricultural personnel at project site and village
levels. Additionally, the use of a legume fallow would be encouraged to help
prevent the build up of pests and diseases, and possibly increase soil
nitrogen levels.
7.14      Seeds and planting materials are the second critical input.  The
shortage of appropriate stock and the absence of the normal chain of seed
propagation in the first years of the project would call for direct project
intervention. Thus, the project would supply all transmigrants with a
package of seeds and perennial seedlings for initial planting. In addition,
transmigrants would be advised to bring food crop seeds with them if possible.
7.15      The third key input is extension services.  The lack of familiarity
of the transmigrants with rainfed upland crops requires a more concentrated
extension effort than elsewhere in the country. The proposed staffing ratio
of one PPL per 500 families thus takes into account the special difficulties
in the settlement areas during the initial years. The establishment of a
network of RECs would give the extension personnel the necessary institutional
backup; and PPLs would be trained in upland cropping practices before being
assigned to project areas.
7.16      Socioeconomic Conditions.  Potential risks in this area can be
grouped under three headings: those risks affecting the economic viability
of transmigrant farms, the physical well-being of settler families and the
socioeconomic integration of the project area with the surrounding region.
7.17      The economic viability of the transmigrant farms hinges on their
ready access to markets; this in turn depends on the existence of efficient
marketing arrangements, provision of adequate storage space and transportation
capacity.  The farmers' cropping patterns have been oriented mainly towards



-: 77 -
rice production, for which a Government procurement system exists, while the
cooperatives, which play a major role in rice procurement, have been strength-
ened by the introduction of trained managers.
7.18      The settlers' health is a specific concern of transmigration
authorities, given their greater susceptibility to malaria. The proposed
health component would address specifically this potential problem. Intestinal
parasitic diseases would be contained through the provision of safe water
supplies and waste disposal as well as through initial treatment of settlers.
7.19      The establishment of transmigrant communities with large-scale
Government assistance entails the risk of resentment on the part of the
local population in the area who do not receive that level of support.
To avoid eventual alienation and discord, the proposed quota of Sumatrans
among the settlers would help to dispel the notion that the benefits of
transmigration would be solely reserved for families from the Inner Islands.



Table 7.1:  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - NET VALUE OF PRODUCTION AT FULL PROJECT DEVELOPMENT
Net value
Farm-gate       Gross value   Production           Net value      production in        Imputed         Net benefit
Area      Yield      _   price  _  of production          costs        of production    project area        labor cost   in project area
('000ha)  (ton/ha)  (Rp OOO/ton)  - - - - - - -  (Rp '000/ha)  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  (Rp million) - - - - - - - - -
Future with Project
Wet Season Planting
Interplanted - rice                   -           1.7          133
- corn                 -           0.8          113
- cassava              -          12.0            8                -                 -                 -                   -               -
Subtotal        13.6           -             -                 413             75               338              4,597                -
Interplanted - rice                   -           1.7          133
- corn                 -           0.8          113
Subtotal        250.4          -             -                 317             68               249              5,080                -                   -
Dry Season Planting
Soybean                               17.0          0.7          246                 172             25               147              2,499                -                   -
Cowpea                                 3.4          0.6          100                  60             15                45                 153               -
Subtotal (food crops)            54.4                                                                                             12,329           2,101              10,228
House Lot and Garden Production           6.8           -             -                   -              -              607               4,128               68 /a          4,060
Total                        61.2                                                                                            16,457           2,169              14,288
Estimated Family Income Future
without Project                                                                                                                        374             2,040 /b     1, 700
Incremental Project Benefits                                                                                                             12,717             129              12,588
/a The garden requires an estimated 50 man-days/year.
/b In earning their existing incomes, transmigrant families are assumed to labor 300 man-days/year.



Table 7.2: TOTAL MONTHLY CROP LABOR REQUIREMENTS
('000 man-days)
Area       Jan      Feb     Mar      Apr      May    Jun       Jul    Aug      Sep      Oct      Nov      Dec    Total
('000 ha)
With the Project - Upland Crops /a
Wet Season
Intercropped- R+C+Cas /b    13.6          367      326      272      259        -     136   136       354      408      408      367     367    3,400
- R+C /c         20.4        551      490      408      388        -        -     -      530      612      612      469     428    4,488
Dry season
Soybean                     17.0          -      136      340      544      680     510      -        -        -        -        -       -    2,210
Cowpea                       3.4          -        -       68       68      119     102    51         -        -        -        -       -       408
Total                     54.4        918      952   1,088   1,259       799      748   187       884   1,020   1,020       836      795   10,506
/a  Total labor requirements for upland foodcrops at full agricultural development of the project in 1989.
/b Interplanted rice, corn and cassava.
/c Interplanted rice and corn.



- 80 -
Table 7.3: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Rp billion)
Investment                      1'cremental Benefits
Year          capital       O&M    Total    Timber  Crops  Total
1          1979/80 /a         2.8        0.1        2.9      0        0       0
2          1980/81           11.1         0.2      11.3      2.0      0       2.0
3          1981/82           18.5         0.3      18.8      4.5      0.4    4.9
4          1982/83           23.1         0.3      23.4      5.3      1.4    6.7
5          1983/84           22.2         0.3      22.5      5.3      3.2    8.5
6          1984/85           14.7         0.3      15.0      2.6      5.0    7.6
7          1985/86            0           0.3       0.3      0        6.8    6.8
8          1986/87            0           0.3       0.3      0        8.2    8.2
9          1987/88            0           0.3       0.3      0        9.2    9.2
10          1988/89            0           0.3       0.3      0       10.2   10.2
11          1989/90            0           0.3       0.3      0       10.8   10.8
12          1990/91            0           0.3       0.3      0       11.3   11.3
13          1991/92            0           0.3       0.3      0       11.6   11.6
14          1992/93            0           0.3       0.3      0       11.8   11.8
15          1993/94            0           0.3       0.3      0       12.0   12.0
16          1994/95            0           0.3       0.3      0       12.2   12.2
17          1995/96            0           0.3       0.3      0       12.4   12.4
18          1996/97            0           0.3       0.3      0       12.4   12.4
19          1997/98            0           0.3       0.3      0       12.5   12.5
20          1998/99            0           0.3       0.3      0       12.5   12.5
21-30        1999-2009           0          0.3       0.3      0       12.6   12.6
Economic Rate of Return                                          12%
/a April 1 - March 31.



- 81 -
Table 7.4: SENSITIVITY ANALYS[S
Appraisal    Crossover
value         value       % change
Total construction cost (Rp billion) /a          62.99         74.1         + 15
cotal benefits at full development
(Rp billion) /a                                62.99         66.04        - 11
Decrease in paddy yields (kg/ha)                  1.7           1.4         - 20
Pure benefit delay (years)                          0             1
/a Net present value.



- 82 -
8. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following points:
(a) the road running south from Muara Bungo through Bangko to Sarolangun
and the Singkut site, the road southeast from Mluara Bungo to the
port of Jambi, and the connecting road from Sarolangun to the Muara
Bungo-Jambi road would be improved to a standard to permit the
effective and timely implementation of the project by June 30, 1982
(para 2.12);
(b)  GOI would (i) minimize the division of the 2.) ha per family provided
for the house lot and food cropping areas; (ii) submit to the Bank
Group for review and comment by December 31, 1980, a plan for
developing 2.25 ha per family, which plan shall discuss, amongst
other things, provisions for food crops, tree crops, agricultural
and other development, the impact on the environment, prospects for
timber sales and utilization of settlers' labor in land clearing; and
(iii) thereafter carry out the plan in accordance with its terms
(para 3.03);
(c) In the event of crop failure or other circumstances beyond the control
of the settlers during the first year of settlement, GOI would
distribute rice and the other essential commodities for the second
year of settlement (para 3.17);
(d) GOI would issue to each settler in a new settlement area a certificate
evidencing: (i) hak pakai (a) to his house lot (0.25 ha) and 1.75
ha of other land within one year after the settler's arrival, and (b)
to the remaining 1.5 ha of land within two years after his arrival;
and (ii) hak milik to all the settler's land within five years after
his arrival on site (para 3.22).
(e) DGT would submit the terms of reference for studies financed under
this project concerning the transmigration program and this project
to the Bank Group for comment and approval (para 3.23);
(f) GOI would construct and staff the hospitals and health centers, and
that the subhealth centers would be staffed and operational when the
first transmigrants arrive (para 3.24);
(g) GOI would submit to the Bank Group for review and approval all work
programs financed under this project to identify, survey, map, plan
and design in detail future settlement areas for the transmigration
program (para 3.26);
(h) The M&E section would submit the terms of reference for all studies
which it would undertake, and which would be financed under this
project, to the Bank Group for review and approval (para 3.30);



- 83 -
(i) The implementing agencies would finalize arrangements for the engage-
ment of consultants with qualifications and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank Group by August 31, 1979 for DGH; by October
31, 1979 for DGT; and by December 31, 1979 for JMT, DGC, DGFCA and
DGLS (para 3.32);
(j) GOI would submit all tenders for land clearing (including road
construction) and agrochemicals supply to international competitive
bidding (para 3.41);
(k) GOI would (i) group local contractors into a number of suitable
contracts (minimum size wherever feasible US$100,000) that would
enable large local contractors or joint ventures of small local
firms to bid within the classes for which Government regula-
tions require them to be prequalified; and (ii) these contract
documents would be submitted to the Bank Group for review before
tendering and award (para 3.41);
(1)  The project implementing agencies (DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC)
would (i) maintain separate accounts for the project; (ii) after
being audited by the appropriate auditor within each agency;
these accounts would be transmitted annually to the Project Coor-
dinator's Office where they would be collected and subjected to
an annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group; and (iii) these audited accounts would be submitted to the
Bank Group within six months of the close of each fiscal year,
together with the auditors' comments and opinion (para. 3.43);
(m)  GOI would (i) by June 30, 1979 appoint the following qualified and
experienced staff after affording the Bank Group an opportunity to
comment on the qualifications and experience of the Project Coordinator,
(a) a Project Coordinator in Jakarta to coordinate the activities of
the Government's agencies involved with the project; (b) a Regional
Project Coordinator at the field project headquarters to coordinate
the activities of the regional implementing agencies; and (c) for
each of DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC a site manager at each settle-
ment area to be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the
agency; and (ii) by June 30, 1979, would designate for each of DGH,
DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC a Liaison Officer in Jakarta and at field
project headquarters (para 4.06);
(n) GOI would cause (i) JMT, DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS, DGC and all other
agencies engaged in project implementation to be adequately staffed
to carry out their responsibilities under the project; and
(ii) each participating agency would prepare a detailed plan of
operation indicating how it would handle its responsibilities and
duties under the project, and submit this plan to the Bank Group
for review and comment by June 30, 1980 (para 4.11);
(o) DGFCA would supply fertilizer and pesticides to the transmigrants
participating in the project for the initial three cropping years
(para 4.17);



- 84 -
(p) Except as the Bank Group may otherwise agree, DGFCA would construct
and staff the required RECs in the project areas prior to the
arrival of the transmigrant families (para. 4.19);
(q) DGC would appoint qualified personnel to assist the cooperatives,
and they would be retained for at least four years during which
time DGC would pay their salary and allowances (para. 4.21);
(r) DGFCA would submit to the Bank Group for review and approval the
terms of reference of the agricultural studies it wishes to undertake
under the project by September 30, 1979 (para 4.23);
(s) GOI would permit land cleaning contractors and settlers to market
timber from the areas designated for clearing within the settlement
areas regardless of the diameter of the timber, but otherwise in
accordance with the applicable Government regulations (para 6.08);
and
(t) All roads constructed under the project would be adequately and
timely maintained by the appropriate district agencies after project
completion.
8.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$90 million with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of
five years, and a IDA credit of US$67 million on standard IDA terms and a EEC
Special Action Credit of about US$5.5 million on standard IDA and EEC terms.
The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1
- 85 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Cost Estimates /a
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total         exchange
Rp million ------                US$ million ----  (%         )
Site Preparation
Civil works
Land clearing /b                                  2,250    12,875   15,125            3.6      20.6       24.2          85
Access and link roads                             1,813      3,437    5,250           2.9       5.5        8.4          65
Village roads                                     2,500      4,625    7,125           4.0       7.4       11.4          65
Airstrips                                            62        250        312         0.1       0.4        0.5          70
Base camp                                           375        375       750          0.6       0.6        1.2          50
Subtotal                                   7,000    21,562   28,562           11.2      34.5       45.7          75
Equipment and services
Consultant services (DGH) /c                        813      2,500    3,313           1.3       4.0        5.3          60
Vehicles and equipment (DGH)                          -        687        687           -       1.1         1.1        100
Airfield equipment                                   63        250        313         0.1       0.4        0.5          80
Site communication equipment                         62        188       250          0.1       0.3        0.4          75
Training (DGH)                                       62         125       187         0.1       0.2        0.3          80
Administration and overhead (DGH)                 1,813        250    2,063           2.9       0.4        3.3          12
Base cost                                  9,813    25,562   35,375           15.7      40.9       56.6          72
Physical contingencies /d                         2,187      5,625    7,812           3.5       9.0       12.5          72
Expected price increases                          4,437    11,313   15,750            7.1      18.1       25.2          72
Total                                     16,437    42,500   58,937           26.3      68.0        94.3         72
Community Development and Settler Relocation
Civil works
Settler housing                                   4,250      2,313    6,563           6.8       3.7       10.5          35
Water supply                                        875        750      1,625         1.4       1.2        2.6          45
Public buildings /e                               1,000        875     1,875          1.6       1.4        3.0          45
Subtotal                                   6,125      3,938   10,063           9.8       6.3       16.1          39
Equipment, services and supplies
Land alienation                                   1,125        375    1,500           1.8       0.6        2.4          25
Settler mobilization and transportation           2,437      2,938    5,375           3.9       4.7        8.6          55
Settler supplies and tools                          563      1,000     1,563          0.9       1.6        2.5          65
Settler subsistence subsidy                       4,750      1,625    6,375           7.6       2.6       10.2          25
Consultant services (DGT & JMT) /c                  562        813    1,375           0.9       1.3        2.2          60
Vehicles and equipment (DGT)                          -         125       125           -       0.2        0.2         100
Vehicles and equipment (DGA)                          -        437        437           -       0.7        0.7         100
Light plane                                           -         187       187           -       0.3        0.3         100
Road maintenance equipment (DGH)                      -        875        875           -       1.4         1.4        100
Research (DGT)                                      125         250       375         0.2       0.4        0.6          70
Training (DGT & DGA)                                 63         187       250         0.1       0.3        0.4          80
Administration and overhead (DGT)                 1,438         187    1,625          2.3       0.3        2.6          12
Base cost                                 17,188    12,937   30,125           27.5      20.7       48.2          43
Physical contingencies /f                           2,000       1,500    3,500          3.2       2.4         5.6         43
Expected price increases                            8,750       6,563   15,313         14.0      10.5        24.5         43
Total                                     27,938    21,000   48,938           44.7      33.6        78.3         43



ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 2
Foreign
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign    Total        exchange
------ Rp million ------        ------ US$ million -----          ()
Agricultural Support Services
Civil works
Seed farms                                         125         63      188         0.2       0.1        0.3         40
Plant protection brigade                            62          -        62         0.1        -        0.1         40
Livestock component                                187        125      312         0.3       0.2        0.5         40
Cooperatives                                     1,937      1,313    3,250          3.1      2.1        5.2         40
Transit fertilizer storage                         188         62       250        0.3       0.1        0.4         25
RECs and staff housing                             250         63       313         0.4      0.1        0.5         33
Subtotal                                  2,749      1,626    4,375          4.3       2.7        7.0         39
Equipment, services and supplies
Seeds and seedlings                              1,563        250    1,813         2.5       0.4        2.9         15
Rock phosphate                                     125        937    1,062          0.2      1.5        1.7         85
Fertilizers and pesticides                       1,562      4,688    6,250          2.5      7.5       10.0         55
Seed farm equipment                                  -        125       125           -      0.2        0.2        100
Livestock and equipment                             63      2,937    3,000          0.1      4.7        4.8        100
Equipment for cooperatives                           -        938       938           -      1.5        1.5        100
Equipment for REC and PPB                           63        124       187         0.1      0.2        0.3         70
Malaria and health services equipment,
supplies                                           -       250       250           -       0.4        0.4        100
Consultant services /c                             312      1,063    1,375         0.5       1.7        2.2         80
Agricultural research                              187        313       500         0.3      0.5        0.8         62
Training                                             -        125       125           -      0.2        0.2         80
Administration and overhead                      1,251         62    1,313          2.0      0.1        2.1          5
Base cost                                 7,813    13,500   21,313          12.5      21.6       34.1         63
Physical contingencies /f                            875      1,500    2,375          1.4      2.4        3.8         63
Expected price increases                           3,937      6,750   10,687          6.3      10.8       17.1         63
Total                                    12,625    21,750   34,375          20.2      34.8       55.0         63
Investigations and Designs
Mapping                                              375      1,688    2,063          0.6       2.7       3.3          80
Consultant services /c                             1,937      1,625    3,562          3.1       2.6       5.7         55
Administration and overhead                          563         62       625         0.9       0.1        1.0         10
Base cost                                 2,875      3,375    6,250          4.6       5.4       10.0         54
Physical contingencies /g                            312        313       625         0.5       0.5        1.0         54
Expected price increases                           1,000      1,125    2,125          1.6       1.8        3.4         54
Total                                     4,187      4,813    9,000          6.7       7.7       14.4         54
GRAND TOTAL                              61,187    90,063  151,250          97.9    144.1       242.0         60
/a In mid-1979 prices and rate of exchange of US$1.0 = Rp 625.
/b Based on use of duty-free equipment.
/c  Based on total consultant costs of US$9,000/man-month for foreign and US$1,500/man-month for local
consultants (see Table 8 for breakdown).
/d About 25% for civil works and 10% for equipment and services.
/e Includes health centers, schools, mosques, village halls, offices and quarters for officials, guard houses and
stores, markets, banks and post offices.
If About 15% for civil works and 10% for equipment, services and supplies.
g  About 10% for services.



- 87 -                                       ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Expected Price Increases
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a                         Total
1979/80 /b  1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   Increase
Annual inflation rate, %
Civil Works
Foreign exchange component                     4           7          7          7          7          7            _
Local currency component /c                   10          20         15         15         10          7
Weighted average
Site preparation /d                          5         10          9           9          8          7
Other civil works                            8         15          12         12          9          7
Goods and Services
Foreign exchange component                     4           7          7          7          7          7
Local currency component /b                    10        20          15         15         10          7
Weighted average /e                             7         13         11         11          9          7
-------------------------------- US$ million -------------------------
Site Preparation
Civil works                                    0.1         1.4        3.0        5.2        5.5        4.6          19.8
Equipment and services                            -        0.4        0.8        1.5        1.5        1.2           5.4
Total                                 0.1         1.8        3.8        6.7        7.0        5.8          25.2
Community Development and Settler Relocation
Civil works                                    0.1         0.6        1.3        2.3        2.3        2.0           8.6
Equipment, services and supplies                0.1        1.1        2.4        4.3        4.3        3.7          15.9
Total                                 0.2         1.7        3.7        6.6        6.6        5.7          24.5
Agricultural Support Services
Civil works                                       -        0.3        0.6        1.1        1.1        0.8           3.9
Equipment, services and supplies                0.1        0.9        2.0        3.6        3.6        3.0          13.2
Total                                  0.1        1.2        2.6        4.7        4.7        3.8          17.1
Investigations and Designs
Services                                          -        0.8        1.5        1.1          -         -            3.4
GRAND TOTAL                            0.4        5.5       11.6       19.1       18.3       15.3          70.2
/a  April 1 - March 31.
/b  Base costs already updated to mid-1979 prices.
7T  Takes into account the inflationary effects of the rupiah devaluation in November 1978 from Rp 415 to
Rp 625 per US$.
/d  Foreign exchange component is about 75% of total cost.
7e  Foreign exchange component is about 50% of total cost.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year /a                       Total
1979/80      1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85  Expenditures
------------------------------US$ million----------------------------
Site Preparation
Civil works                                     2.3        6.9        9.2       11.4         9.1        6.8         45.7
Equipment, and services                         0.6        1.6        2.2        2.7         2.2        1.6         10.9
Base cost                              2.9        8.5       11.4       14.1        11.3        8.4         56.6
Physical contingencies                          0.6        1.9        2.5        3.1         2.5        1.9         12.5
Expected price increases                        0.1        1.8        3.8        6.7         7.0        5.8         25.2
Total                                  3.6       12.2       17.7       23.9        20.8       16.1         94.3
Community Development and Settler Relocation
Civil works                                     0.8        2.4        3.2        4.1         3.2        2.4         16.1
Equipment, services and supplies                1.6        4.9        6.4        8.0         6.4        4.8         32.1
Base cost                              2.4        7.3        9.6       12.1         9.6        7.2         48.2
Physical contingencies                          0.3        0.9        1.1        1.4         1.1        0.8          5.6
Expected price increases                        0.2        1.7        3.7        6.6         6.6        5.7         24.5
Total                                  2.9        9.9       14.4       20.1        17.3       13.7         78.3
Agricultural Support Services
Civil works                                     0.4        1.1        1.4        1.7         1.4        1.0          7.0
Equipment, services and supplies                1.4        4.1        5.4        6.8         5.4        4.0         27.1
Base cost                              1.8        5.2        6.8        8.5         6.8        5.0         34.1
Physical contingencies                          0.3        0.6        0.7        1.0         0.7        0.5          3.8
Expected price increases                        0.1        1.2        2.6        4.7         4.7        3.8         17.1
Total                                  2.2        7.0       10.1       14.2        12.2        9.3         55.0
Investigations and Designs
Base cost                                       0.5        3.5        4.0        2.0           -          -         10.0
Physical contingencies                            -        0.4        0.4        0.2           -          -          1.0
Expected price increases                          -        0.8        1.5        1.1           -          -          3.4
Total                                  0.5        4.7        5.9        3.3           -          -         14.4
GRAND TOTAL                            9.2       33.8       48.1       61.5        50.3       39.1        242.0
/a April 1 - March 31.



ANNEX 1
Table 4
- 89 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Cost           Loan
Total   Foreign    amount
------ US$ million -----
1. Civil Works
Site preparation                                 45.7      34.5       54.0
Community development & settler relocation  16.1            6.3       19.0
Other supporting services                         7.0       2.7        8.0
Expected price increases                         32.3      19.8          -
Subtotal                                  101.1      63.3        81.0 /a
2. Vehicles and Equipment
DGH, airfields & communications                   3.4       3.2        3.1
DGT & DGA                                         1.2       1.2        1.2
DGFCA, DGLS & DGC                                 7.2 /b   7.0         7.0
Physical contingencies                            1.2       1.1          -
Subtotal                                   13.0      12.5        11.3 /c
3. Relocation and Subsidies
DGr                                              21.3       8.9       14.0
DGFCA                                             2.9       0.4        2.0
Physical contingencies                            2.4       0.9          -
Subtotal                                   26.6      10.2        16.0 /d
4. Mapping, Consultants, Research and Training
DGH                                              14.6       9.5       15.8
DGT & DGA                                         3.2       2.0        3.6
DGFCA, DGLS & DGC                                 3.2       2.4        3.7
Physical contingencies                            2.1       1.4          -
Subtotal                                   23.1      15.3        23.1 /e
5. Agrochemicals
DGFCA                                            11.7       9.0        7.4
Physical contingencies                            1.2       0.9          -
Subtotal                                   12.9        9.9        7.4 /f
6. Unallocated
Balance of physical contingencies                16.0      10.0          -
Balance of expected price increases              37.9      21.4          -
Land alienation                                   2.4       0.6           -
Administration and overhead                       9.0       0.9          -
Subtotal                                   65.3      32.9       18.2
Total                                     242.0    144.1        157.0
/a  Disbursements would be at the rate of 80% of total expenditures.
/b  Includes livestock (work animals) to be imported.
/c  Disbursements would be at 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods, equipment, vehicles and cattle; 95% of ex-factory costs
for locally manufactured equipment; 65% of total expenditures for
imported goods and equipment procured locally, excluding vehicles; and
40% of local expenditures for locally procured cattle and locally
assembled vehicles.
/d  Disbursements would be at the rate of 60% of total expenditures, certi-
fied by DGT, with supporting documentation written by the Borrower and
held available for inspection by supervision mission.
/e  Disbursements would be at 100% of total expenditures.
Xf  Disbursements would be at 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local
expenditures on the basis of contracts awarded after international com-
petitive bidding.



ANNEX 1
Table 5
- 90 -
INIDONESIA
TRAUI4SIIGRATION II
Cost Allocation
Physical Price
Base   contin-   contin-   Total       Cost per
cost   gencies   gencies   cost        family /a
----------- US$ million ---------         (US$)
Site Preparation, Community Development and
Resettlement
Civil works                                 63.6    14.3      30.1      108.0       3,490
Equipment, services and supplies            63.6      6.3     31.3      101.2       3,290
Total                               127.2    20.6       61.4     209.2       6,780 /b
National Programs /c                          11.7      1.3      5.4       18.4         610
Preparation of Future Projects                10.0      1.0      3.4       14.4         480
GRAND TOTAL                         148.9    22.9       70.2     242.0       7,870
/a  Based on about 30,000 families to be assisted by the project; excludes expenditures
of US$3.3 million for civil works and US$2.6 million for equipment and services for
settlers already in the area.
/b Excluding price contingencies and costs attributed to the national program and
preparation of future projects; the site preparation, community development and
resettlement costs would be US$4,250 per family.
/c  About 30% of DGT and ATT consultant services shown in Table 1 are allocated to the
national program; about 50% of DGT and ATT training costs and research shown in
Table 1 are allocated to the national program; about 30% of DGT and ATT administra-
tion and overhead costs shown are allocated to the national program; and about
US$5.2 million of the civil works are allocated to the national program.



ANNEX 1
Table 6
- 91 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                Cumulative disbursements
and Semester                                  Bank Group           EEC
- - - (US$ million) - - -
FY80
First                                             0.1              0.3
Second                                            0.3               .7
FY81
First                                             7.0              3.0
Second                                           19.5              5.5
FY82
First                                            38.0
Second                                           52.0
FY83
First                                            70.0
Second                                           87.0
FY84
First                                           100.0
Second                                          115.0
FY85
First                                           140.0
Second                                          152.0
FY86
First                                           157.0



ANNEX 1
Table 7
- 92 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Civil Works Quantities, Unit Prices and Costs
Item                      Quantity      Unit       Unit            Cost
(US$)       (US$ million)
Land clearing /a                   37,500       ha           645           24.2
Access and link roads                 710       km        16,100           11.4
Village roads                       1,720       km        4,900             8.4
Airstrips                          36,000       sq m          10            0.5
Base camp
Buildings                        6,200       sq m         110             0.7
Facilities                            -      L.S.            -            0.7
Settler housing                   30,000       ea.           350           10.5
Water supply
Shallow well (12 m)              7,550       ea.          250             1.9
Deep well (80 m)                    300      ea         2,500             0.7
Public buildings                  100,000       sq m          30            3.0
/a  This is the land clearing for the areas to be cropped.  The cost of land
clearing for the roads is contained in the total road costs.



ANNEX 1
Table 8
- 93 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Breakdown of Costs of Consulting Services
Local
Expatriates            consultants
Foreign      Local      Total       Local
Item                               currency   currency    cost        currency
-------------- US$/man-month -------------
Billing Rate
Basic salary                       2,000          -       2,200         400
Social benefits                      600          -         600         100
Home office overhead               1,760          -       1,760         320
Overseas allowance /a                550          -         550          80
Net fee                              330          -         330          60
Subtotal                5,500          -       5,500         960
Reimbursable Expenses
Mobilization and travel-
associated expenses
International travel               450          -         450
Mobilization and positioning       250          -         250           -
Subsistence allowance               50          -          50          15
Miscellaneous expenses             100          -         100          15
Subtotal                  850          -         850          30
Duty station expenses
Local duty travel                    -        135         135          25
Per diem                             -        220         220          30
Field office overhead                -        355         355          35
Housing and utilities                -      1,065       1,065          55
Transport /b                         -        575         575          66
Subtotal                    -      2,350       2,350         210
Total                   6,350      2,350       8,700/c    1,200/d
/a  Field allowance for local consultants.
/b  Includes driver, fuel and lubricants, and depreciation of vehicles.
/c  May vary between US$8,000 and US$10,000/man-month depending upon the
nationality of expatriate.
/d  Applies to engineers and surveyors; total cost for draftsmen and
technicians is about US$400/man-month.



ANNEX 1
Table 9
94                                  Page 1 of 4
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Agricultural Supporting Services - Equipment List
Item                                               Quantity   Unit cost             Total cost
(Rp '000)   (Rp million)  (US$ '000)
Plant Protection Brigade
100 sq m building                                   1         50/sq m           5.0           8.0
100 sq m staff house                                2         70/sq m          14.0          22.4
70 sq m staff house                                 2         70/sq m           9.8          15.7
54 sq m staff house                                 1         70/sq m           3.8           6.1
Mist blowers                                       25        230                5.75           9.2
Midget dusters                                     50         15                0.75           1.2
Four wheel drive pick-up                            1      7,300                7.3           11.7
Motor cycle                                         1        600                0.6            1.0
Furniture                                         L.S.         -                2.0            3.2
Insecticide (initial stock)                         5 ton      -                9.3          14.9
Spare parts and supplies (initial stock)          L.S.         -                1.4           2.2
Hand sprayers                                   1,200         60               72.0         115.2
Total Plant Protection Brigade                                              131.7        210.8
Seed Farm - Preparation and Equipment for One Farm
Land preparation                                   30 ha      50/ha             1.5            2.4
500 sq m drying floor                               1         20/sq m          10.0          16.0
50 sq m laboratory                                  1         70/sq m           3.5           5.6
150 sq m seed storage                               1         50/sq m           7.5          12.0
50 sq m fertilizer storage                          1         50/sq m           2.5           4.0
40 sq m garage                                      1         50/sq m           2.0           3.2
100 sq m meeting room                               1         50/sq m           7.0          11.2
100 sq m staff house                                1         70/sq m           7.0          11.2
70 sq m staff house                                 2         70/sq m           9.8          15.7
54 sq m staff house                                 6         70/sq m          22.7          36.3
75 sq m processing room and workshop                1         70/sq m           5.3           8.5
75 sq m office                                      1         70/sq m           5.3           8.5
20 sq m generator building                          1         50/ sq m          1.0            1.6
Potable water installation                        L.S.         -                5.0            8.0
Electric wiring installation                      L.S.         -                5.0            8.0
Road construction and fencing                     L.S.         -                5.0            8.0
Subtotal Buildings                                                         100.1          160.2



ANNEX 1
Table 9
Page 2 of 4
Item                                               Quantity   Unit cost              Total cost
(Rp '000)    (Rp million)   (US$ '000)
Machinery
75 hp tractor                                          1         7,500             7.5           12.0
Offset disc harrows                                    1         4,500             4.5            7.2
Trailer                                                1           600             0.6            1.0
Seed combine                                           1         3,450             3.45           5.5
Knapsack sprayers                                      5            75             0.38           0.6
Power sprayer                                          1           450             0.45           0.7
1.5 ton capacity pick-up                               1         9,000             9.0          14.4
Four wheel drive jeep                                  1         4,700             4.7            7.5
Motor cycle                                            1           600             0.6            1.0
10 KVA diesel generator                                1         4,500             4.5           7.2
Moisture testers                                       2           110             0.22           0.4
Scales                                                 1           750             0.75           1.2
Scales                                                 1           450             0.45          0.7
Germinator                                             2           600             1.2            1.9
Rain gauge                                             1            75             0. 08          0.1
30 ton capacity silos                                  4           375             1.5            2.4
Hoes and miscellaneous equipment                    L.S.             -             1.3            2.0
Furniture                                           L.S.             -            12.35          19.8
Fertilizer and pesticide for 5 years                L.S.             -             1.8            2.9
Subtotal Machinery                                                         61.83          98.9
One seed Cleaning Unit
Thresher                                            3            980             2.9           4.6
Cleaner                                             2            750             1.5           2.4
Grader                                               3           750             2.3           3.6
Drier                                                3           600             1.8           2.9
Scales 1 ton                                         1           375             0.38          0.6
Scales 50 kg                                        2            150             0.3           0.5
Bagging machine                                      3           150             0.45          0.7
Plastic bag sealer                                   3            45             0.14          0.2
Silo                                               10            110             1.1           1.8
Wheel barrow                                         5            75             0.38          0.6
Conveyor                                             1             -             7.5          12.0
Moisture tester                                      2           300             0.6            1.0
Wiring                                            L.S.             -             0.05          0.1
Subtotal Seed Cleaning Unit                                                  19.4           31.0
Total Per Seed Farm                                                          181.33         290.1



ANNEX 1
-96 -                                Table 9
Page 3 of 4
Item                                              Quantity   Unit cost             Total cost
(Rp '000)   (Rp million)  (US$ '000)
Village Cooperative
50 sq m warehouse (kiosk) fertilizers                1        50/sq m           2.5          4.0
100 sq m warehouse grain                              1        50/sq m           5.0          8.0
15 sq m office space                                  1        50/sq m           0.75         1.2
30 sq m rice mill shelter                             1         50/sq m          1.5          2.4
500 sq m concrete drying floor                        1        20/sq m          10.0         16.0
Rice mill installed (engine, husker, polisher)   1              4,500            4.5           7.2
Miscellaneous (scales, moisture meter)                -           L.S.           1.0           1.6
Total per Village Cooperative                                               25.25        40.4
Cattle Distribution
Reception, Distribution Center
Pasture establishment                            200 ha      65/ha
Buuldings                                        L.S.         -                56.25       90.0
Farm roads and fencing                           L.S.          -               75.31      120.5
5 ton truck and cattle crate                       2        13,400            26.8         42.9
2 ton truck                                        1         9,000             9.0         14.4
125 cc motor cycle                                 3           600             1.8          2.9
4 x 4 jeep                                         1         4,700             4.7          7.5
75 h.p. tractor                                    1         7,500             7.5         12.0
Offset disc barrows                                 1        4,500             4.5          7.2
Offset disc barrows                                 1        3,500             3.5          5.6
5 ton Trailer                                      1           600             0.6          1.0
Rotary slasher                                      1           900            0.9          1.4
4,000 1 portable tank                              1         1,500             1.5          2.4
Portable water pump                                1           200             0.2          0.3
Piston water pump                                  1           850             0.85         1.4
Pipes and fittings                               L.S.             -            3.0          4.8
Tools                                            L.S.             -            1.5          2.4
40 KVA generator                                   1              -            9.06        14.5
Electrical wiring                                L.S.             -            3.1          5.0
Veterinary laboratory equipment                  L.S.             -            4.1          6.6
Hand sprayers                                     10             60            0.6          1.0
Office equipment                                 L.S.             -            3.75         6.0
Miscellaneous                                    L.S.             -            0.63         1.0
Cattle                                        10,000         291/head    2,910.0        4,656.0
Subtotal                                                               3,129.15    5,006.8



ANNEX 1
Table 9
Page 4 of 4
Item                                             Quantity   Unit cost             Total cost
(Rp '000)   (Rp million)  (US$ '000)
One Bull Unit
Pasture establishment                              1.5 ha   65/ha             0.1          0.2
Fencing                                         500 m       35/100 m          0.18        0.3
Water                                           L.S.             -            0.13         0.2
Buildings                                       L.S.            -            0.31         0.5
Total per Bull Unit                                                         0.72          1.2
RECs
Buildings
130 sq m building                               5         70/sq m         45.5         73.0
Site development                                5      2,000/site         10.3         16.0
70 sq m house                                   4         70/sq m         19.6         31.0
46 sq m house                                  12         70/sq m         38.6         62.0
36 sq m house                                  81         70/sq m        204.1        327.0
Subtotal                                                                  318.1        509.0
Machinery, Equipment
4 x 4 jeeps                                     4      4,700              18.8         30.0
125 cc motorcycle                              81        600              48.6         78.0
Pamphlets and other                           L.S.         -              62.5        100.0
Subtotal                                                                  129.9        208.0
Total RECs                                                                478.0        766.0



ANNEX 1
Table 10
- 98 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Health Equipment List
Unit           Total cost
Item                                 Quantity    Cost/Rp         Rp           $
Subhealth Centers
Motorbikes                              39     600,000      23,400,000   37,440
Furniture                               39     500,000      19,500,000   31,200
Standard medical equipment              39     550,000      21,450,000   34,320
Drugs (initial stock)                   39     300,000      11,700,000   18,720
Vaccines                              L.S.                  33,750,000   54,000
Subtotal                                                109,800,000  175,680
Kabupaten Health Coordinators
Vehicles, 4 x 4                          2   4,700,000       9,400,000   15,040
Office supplies (initial stock)      L.S.                    6,000,000    9,600
Subtotal                                                 15,400,000   24,640
Malaria Control
Pesticide (DDT 75% W.P.)          140,000          800/a  112,000,000  179,200
Sprayers and spare parts               200      43,000       8,600,000   13,760
Scales                                  24       8,000         192,000      307
Drugs                                 L.S.                   3,945,000    6,312
Laboratory supplies                   L.S.                   9,325,910   14,921
Vehicles, 4 x 4                          2   4,700,000       9,400,000   15,040
Microscopes and accessories              3   1,000,000       3,000,000    4,800
Subtotal                                               146,462,910  234,340
Total Health Equipment Cost                            271,662,910  434,660
/a Per spraying per dwelling.



ANNEX 1
Table 11
- 99 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Road Maintenance Equipment List
Unit
cost            Total cost
Item                          Quantity       Rp'000       Rp mln       US$'0
110 hp grader                    5           37,500       187.5           300
6-ton dump truck                20           12,500       250.0           400
8-ton road roller               10           15,000       150.0           240
6,000 1 water tanker             5           13,100        65.5            105
Pickup mobile workshop           5            4,400        22.0             35
1.5 cu m shovel loader           5           33,100       165.5           265
Low loader                        1          34,500        34.5             55
Total                                                875.0         1,400



ANNEX 1
Table 12
- 100 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
DGA Equipment List
Unit
cost            Total cost
Item                         Quantity       Rp'000       Rp mln       US$'000
4 x 4 jeep                      12            5,000       60.0            96
Electronic distance
measurer                       8            7,000       56.0            90
T.2 theodite                    20            4,000       80.0           128
T.0 theodite                    60            2,500      150.0           240
Field equipment                 80               75        6.0            10
Total                                               352.0           564



ANNEX 2
Table 1
- 101 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs in Future with Project
Wet season
Interplanted Crops               Dry season
Inputs/ha                         R+C+Cas /a       R+C /b       Soybean      Cowpea
Cultivation - (% by animal) /c           20             20           20          20
- (animal days)              5             5             4           4
Seed - (kg) Mono-crop                     -              -           30          20
Intercrop - rice            40            40             -           -
- corn           10            10            -            -
- cassava   2,000(cutting)   -               -            -
Fertilizer
(kg) Urea                       100            100            -           -
TSP                        100            80            30          20
Agrochemicals -
(kg) Seed treatment /d             1              1          0.5         0.5
(1)  Diazinon                      2              2          1.0         0.5
(gm) Zinc phosphide              500            500            -            -
Other rodenticide           500           500             -           -
Harvesting costs
(%) of crop yield/ha)             /e             /e            1            1
Interest /f
(%/month)                          2              2            2            2
/a Intercropped upland rice, corn and cassava.
/b Intercropped upland rice and corn.
/c Operating cost is estimated at Rp. 1,000/animal day, 24 days to prepare
land for wet season crops; 20 days for dry season crops.
/d Systemic pesticide.
/e Rice 3% of crop yield; corn and cassava 2%.
/f Interest is charged on cost of fertilizers and pesticides for five months.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
- 102 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Crop Production Costs: Future with Project at Full Development /a
Wet season
Interplanted Crops               Dry season
Inputs/ha                    R+C+Cas         R+C         Soybean /b   Cowpea /c
Cash Inputs (Rp '000/ha) /e
Cultivation                 5.0  (5.0)   5.0  (5.0)    4.0  (4.0)   4.0  (4.0)
Seed                        9.5  (6.6)   7.5  (4.6)    7.4  (4.9)   2.0  (2.0)
Fertilizer                 31.8 (18.8)  28.8 (16.9)    4.5  (2.8)   3.0  (1.9)
Agrochemicals              15.0  (6.4)  15.0  (6.4)    6.2  (2.3)   4.1  (1.5)
Harvesting                 10.5  (5.9)   8.6  (5.1)    1.7  (1.1)   0.6  (0.6)
Others                      3.2  (2.3)   3.1  (2.2)    1.2  (0.4)   1.3  (0.7)
Interest                      0  (3.0)      0  (2.8)       0   0.5        0  (0.3)
Total Cash Inputs        75.0 (48.0)  68.0 (43.0)   25.0 (16.0)  15.0 (11.0)
Labor Inputs (man-day/ha)
Land preparation                55             55            40            40
Planting                        50            40             20            20
Crop management                 75            75             35            30
Harvesting                      70             50            35            30
Total Labor Inputs           250           220           130            120
/a  Economic costs for use in the economic analysis, and based on world market
prices for rice, corn, soybeans, fertilizer and pesticide. Figures in
parentheses are financial costs for use in farm budgets. See Chapter 6,
Table 6.2 for individual prices used. All prices are at constant
mid-1979 levels.
/b  R+C+Cas = Rice, corn and cassava interplanted.
R+C = Rioce and corn interplanted.
/c Soybean production represents a composite group of high value leguminous
cash crops (soybeans, groundnuts, mungbean).
/d Cowpea production represents a composite group of lower value legumiuous
cash crops (cowpea, ricebean).
/e See Table 1 for assumptions of physical input quantities.



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Monthly Crop Labor Requirements: Future With Project
(Man-day/ha)
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec   Total
Wet Season Planting
Intercropped - R + C + Cas /a        27   24   20   19    -   10   10   26   30   30   27   27    250
Intercropped - R + C /b              27   24   20   19    -    -    -   26   30   30   23   21    220
Dry Season Planting
Soybean                               -    8   20   32   40   30    -    -    -    -    -    -    130
Cowpea                                -    -   20   20   35   30   15    -    -    -    -    -    120
/a R + C + Cas: Rice, corn and cassava interplanted.
/b R + C: Rice and corn interplanted.
rD31



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Monthly Farm Labor Requirements for 1.0 ha Food Crops /a
Area    Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec
(ha)    ----------------------- (Man-day/ha) ---------------------
Future With the Project -
Upland Food Crops
Wet Season Planting                                                                                                   C
R + C + Cas /b                   0.4      11   10    8    8    -    4    4   10   12   12   11   11
R + C /c                         0.6      16   14   12   11    -    -    -   16   18   18   14   13
Dry Season Planting
Soybean                          0.5       -    4   10   16   20   15    -    -    -    -    -    -
Cowpeas                          0.1       -    -    2    2    4    3    2    -    -    -    -    -
Total Farm Labor Requirement                  27  28   32   37   24   22    6   26   30   30   25   24
/a  Based on Table 3.
/b  Intercropped rice, corn and cassava.
/c  Intercropped rice and corn.
9F
(D X4



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Crop Budgets /a: Future with Project at Full Development
Wet Season                       Dry Season
Interplanted Crops
R + C + Cas /b    R + C /c             Soybean   Cowpea
Yield (ton/ha)                                                  -               -               0.7        0.6
Rice                                                        1.7            1.7                  -           -
Corn                                                        0.8            0.8                  -          -
Cassava                                                    12.0              -                  -          -
Cl
Farm-gate Price (Rp'000/ton)                                    -              -                160        100
Rice                                                        100            100                  -          -
Corn                                                         55             55                  -          -
Cassava                                                       8              -                  -          -
Gross value of production (Rp'000/ha)                         310            214                112         60
Production costs, excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)                  48             43                 16         11
Net value of production, excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)          262             171                96         49
Labor requirements (man-day/ha)                               250            220                130        120
/a Based on financial prices and costs as shown in Table 6.2 and Annex 2, Table 2.
/b Intercropped rice, corn and cassava.
/c Intercropped rice and corn.
| X | 



-106-                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 2
- 106  -                                                         Table 6
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Production and Net Returns from 0.2 ha Settler Garden /a
At full garden
Unit and           Unit                                 Year                                  development
Crop               No.  yield range           price    1      2      3     4      5     6      7     8      9    10       Year 16
(Rp)                                     (Rp ' 000) -- - - - - - -----------
Vegetables
Chili             -    10-20 (kg)           300    3.0   6.0    /b
Spinach           -      5-10 (kg)           30    0.2   0.3
String bean       -    10-30 (kg)            130    1.3   3.9
Eggplant          -      5-10 (kg)           100    0.5   1.0
Cabbage           -    15-30 (kg)             25    0.4   0.8
Pumpkin           -    20-40 (kg)             50    1.0   2.0
Miscellaneous    -    20-40 (kg)             150    3.0   6.0
Subtotal                                       9.4  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0            20.0
Fruit Trees
Jack fruit        4    2-5 (fruits)         300       -      -     -      -     -   2.4   2.9   3.4   3.6   3.9           6.0
Banana           15    1-2 (bunches)        250       -   3.8   5.6   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5             7.5
Petai             4   5-10 (bundles)         100      -      -     -      -   2.0   2.7   3.4   3.7   4.0   4.0           4.0
Papaya            5      20 (fruits)         40       -   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0             4.0
Pineapple        50       1 (fruit)           50      -   0.5   1.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5             2.5
Subtotal                                         -   8.3  11.1  14.0  16.0  19.1  20.3  21.1  21.6  21.9            24.0
Cash Tree Crops
Coconut          15    8-60 (nuts)                    -      -     -      -     -   2.7  11.7  17.5  23.5  29.3          45.0
Clove             4    0.15-4.25 (dry kg)             -      -     -      -   0.7   1.6   2.8   5.6   7.1   8.5          40.0
Coffee           30    0.2-0.6 (dry kg)               -      -     -      -     -   2.4   4.1   5.6   5.1   7.7          14.4
Subtotal                                         -     -      -     -   0.7   6.7  18.6  28.7  35.7  45.5           99.4
Total Value of Production                             9.4  28.3  31.1  34.0  36.7  45.8  58.9  69.8  77.3  87.4           143.4
Production Costs, Excluding Labor /c                    -   4.2   6.3   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4   8.4            13.4
Net Value of Production, Excluding Labor              9.4  24.1  24.8  25.6  28.3  37.4  50.5  61.4  68.9  79.0           130.0
/a  Based on financial prices and costs for farm budget analysis.
/b  Assumed the same from year 3 onwards.
/c  Mainly fertilizer and pesticides.



ANNEX 2
Table 7
- 107 -
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION II
Farm Budgets for 1.25 ha Food Cropping and Garden
At full
Year                 agricultural /a
Unit           1      2       3      4       5      development
Yields                         (ton/ha)
Paddy                                        0.6    0.9    1.2    1.5    1.7            1.7
Corn                                         0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8            0.8
Cassava                                      8.0    9.5   10.0   11.0   12.0           12.0
Soybean                                      0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8            0.7
Cowpea                                       0.4    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6            0.6
Harvested Area                 (ha)
Wet season -  rice                           1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            1.0
-  corn                          1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            1.0
Dry season -  cassava                        0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4            0.4
soybean                       0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5            0.5
cowpea                        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1            0.1
Total harvested area                    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0            2.5
Cropping intensity      (%)             183    200    200    200    200            200
Crop Production                (kg)
Paddy                                        600    900  1,200  1,500  1,700          1,700
Corn                                         400    500    600    700    800            800
Cassava                                    3,200  3,600  4,000  4,400  4,800          4,800
Soybean                                      200    250    300    300    350            350
Cowpea                                        40     40      50     50      60           60
Farm Income                    (Rp'000)
Gross value of production /b                 116    153    191    220    251            314
Production costs, excluding labor /b          12     39      47     50      50           54
Net value garden production /c                 9     24      25     26      28          130
Net value of production                      113    138    169    196    229            390
Taxes /d                                       0      0       0      0       0           18
Net crop income                              113    138    169    196    229            372
GOI assistance to settlers /e                170      0       0      0       0            0
Off-farm income                                0     30      30     25      20           20
Total family income                    283    168    199    221    249            392
Total labor requirements
for food cropping                    254    309    309    309    309            309
/a In year 16 of settlement.
/b Based on Table 5.
/c Based on Table 6.
/d Land tax (IPEDA) at Rp 9,000/ha of food crop land.
/e GOI assistance is given over first two years.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
- 108 -
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
Schedule of Early Events
Activity                                                               Target Date
1. All agencies appoint project and site managers and
JMT appoint the project and regional project
coordinators                                                   June 30, 1979
2. DGFCA prepare proposals for training PPLs in upland
cropping techniques, and DGC proposals for training            6 months of
cooperative managers                                           loan signing
3.   DGT prepare proposals for monitoring and evaluating           6 months of
its entire transmigration program and also                    loan signing
Thansmigration II.
4.   Enployment of consultants:
DGH                                                        August 31, 1979
DGT                                                        October 31, 1979
JMT, DGFCA, DCLS and DGC                                   December 31, 1979
5.  First two contracts for land clearing and
road construction
(a)  Issue bid documents                                       September 1979
(b)  Award contracts                                           December 1979
6.  Last three contracts for land clearing and
road construction
(a)  Issue bid documents                                       May 1980
(b)  Award contracts                                           August 1980
7. First contracts for construction of settlers
housing and community facilities
(a)  Issue bid docunents                                       September 1979
(b)  Award contracts                                           January 1980
8. First contracts for construction of agricultural
support services infrastructure
(a)  Issue bid documents                                       December 1979
(b)  Award contracts                                           April 1980
9.  Contract for procurement of rock phosphate
(a)  Issue bid documents                                       June 1979
(b)  Award contract                                            November 1979



ANNEX 3
- 109 -                             Page 2
Activity                                                               Target Date
10. First contract for procurement of fertilizer
and pesticides                                                 January 1980
11.  Arrange for supply of seedlings                                 June 1979
12. Arrange for supply of initial seed packages
for first transmigrants                                        June 1979



ANTEX 4
Page 1
- 110 -
INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF TRANSMIGRATION II PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to Transmigration
A.1   IBRD Report No. 1503-IND, Indonesia:  Identification of
Transnigration Projects II, III and IV (4 vols.), 1977.
A.2   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Tndonesia:  Proposals for
Transnigration Support Services, 1978.
A.3.  P.A. International tManagement Consultants Ltd., Consultancy
Services for Transmigration and land Settlement Expansion, 1977.
A.4.  J.M. Harjono, Transmigration in Indonesia, 1977.
A.5.  G.J. Davis, Beyond Subsistence:  A Report on the Agricultural
Economics of Way Abung and Baturaja (Draft, 1978).
A.6.  G.J. Davis, Moving with the Flow:  The Case for Spontaneous
Migration in the Indonesian Transmigration Program
(Draft, 1978).
B. Reports and Studies Dealing with the Project (including Area Studies)
B.1.  GOI, a ansmigration II (2 vols.), 1978.
B.2.  ODM:  Site Investigations along the Trans-Sumatra Highway.
Phase II Evaluation of the Settlement Sites;
Alai Hilir (1977)
Kumang Kuning (1977)
Kubang Ujo (1978)
B.3.  IPB:  Project Preparation of Rimbo Bujang, Alai Hilir and Singkut
Transmigration Project (2 vols.), 1978.
B.4.  Robert R. Nathan Ass.:  Sumatra Regional Planning Study Part B
(i)  Progress Reports (5 vols.), 1975-76
(ii) Sectoral Annexes (6 vols.), 1976
B.5.  University of Bonn, Sumatra Regional Planning Study.
(i) Regional Development in Central and Southern Sumatra (2 vols.),
1974
(ii) Land Use Statistics, Jambi Province, 1974;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
- 111 -
(iii) Agricultural Production System, Jambi Province, 1974.
B.6.  FAO Forestry Report on Commercial Species in Project Area.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1.  Transmigration II:  A Comparative Analysis of Alternative Cropping
Strategies for Land Development, 1978.
C.2.  Transmigration II:  Health Component, 1979.
C.3.  Transmigration II:  Nutrition Component, 1978.






IBRD  13914R
rO PA KA N8A RV         0Q                                   TNi se ha beanprepard by the      t Aseh                                 MAY 1B71
102  00'                                Wold Bankks staff Osi-ely for
I                                                                        the onvenience ofh reaes of     \ 7 <iAAYIi5 t
the epor to arhih it is attahed.7
The dettottttin- coed ad th.                             AAySIA   Sckch
bo=dr,es shO. *o th,s map
)                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~do -t iotply, no the par 0f the e.      Gal KOh-0
Z7                                                                                           WtN- d,s efihate, A                       Uorypor
O                                  I    A                               ju~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1d9ntet on the legal steo of  1'
- Qy =wy .,  -y .d\   ri                                         NG A       ORE
-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 00   A    U                                                          --p -   5f0-h b..d.. .c^X 
)   S/AT   - KM                                                            4 Jaftbi                        T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..ft.
5000k  Darak ~  ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ 00
00    SunIA..                                                                                         Na...on
ExDsoing Setleen Are
W          E                                                                                                                  1. Not Su  tr
_              Proposed Settlement Areas                                                                                                     A e S   I
PotentiAl Extension Area 
A00,  *          Project Field Headquarters_                                                         s                                  J30
3    _00roposPr                  Nucleus Estate                             N3-'t00~'
-7Provincial Boundaries                                                                                         Tr         A
o,            25            5,0             75            100z>                                                 
KILOMETERS (  
MILESoTebingting
1020oo                                                         103B0                TOP EMBANG



