CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 919 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Transmigration II Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOYMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 1, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 919 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) th'e Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter pro-
vided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank has
agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to ninety million dollars ($90,000,000) (herein-
after called the Loan);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in
this Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided
for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established with
funds contributed by the Member States of the European Economic
Community (hereinafter called the Administrator) to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of certain parts of
the Project and by agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Administrator (hereinafter called the Special
Action Credit Agreement) the Administrator has agreed to provide
such assistance (hereinafter called the Special Action Credit);
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions ad in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Alai Hilir Settlement Area" means an area of about
112,000 ha bordering on the northeastern bank of the Batang Hari
River in the Borrower's Province of Jambi;
(b) "Basic Agrarian Law" means Law No. 5/1960 of the
Borrower (Undang-Undang Pokok Agraria), as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c) "DGA" means the Directorate General of Agrarian Affairs
within the Borrower's Ministry of Home Affairs;
(d) "DGC" means the Directorate General of Cooperatives
within the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives;
(e) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(f) "DGH" means the Directorate General of Highways within
the Borrower's Ministry of Pubiic Works;
(g) "DGLS" means the Directorate General of Livestock
Services of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(h) "DGT" means the Directorate General of Transmigration
within the Borrower's Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration;
(i) "Existing Settlement Area" means the Singkut Settlement
Area;


﻿-3-
(j) "Governing Regulation" means the Presidential Decree No.
26/1978;
(k) "Hak Milik" means the right of ownership in respect of
land, as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;
(1) "Hak Pakai" means the right of use in respect of land
as provided under the Basic Agrarian Law;
(m)  "Hitam Ulu Settlement Area" means an area of about
82,000 ha bordering on the northeastern side of the Trans-Sumatra
Highway near the towns of Bangko and Pamenang in the Borrower's
Province of Jambi;
(n) "Kuamang Kuning Settlement Area" means an area of
about 130,000 ha bordering on the Trans-Sumatra Highway and
the Batang Tcbo River and located south of Muara Tebo in the
Borrower's Province of Jambi;
(o) "Kubang Ujo Settlement Area" means an area of about
40,500 ha bordering on the Trans-Sumatra Highway and the Batang
Tembesi river north of Sarolangun in the Borrower's Province
of Jambi;
(p) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from. time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(q) "New Settlement Areas" means Alai Hilir Settlement Area,
Hitam Ulu Settlement Area, Kuamang Kuning Settlement Area and
Kubang Ujo Settlement Area collectively;
(r) "Participating Farmer" means a farmer and his family
resettled in the New Settlement Areas or previously settled in the
Existing Settlement Area under the Transmigration Piigram, as the
context may require;
(s) "REC" means a Rural Extension Center, Balai Penyuluhan
Pertanian, of the Borrower, established and operating in accor-
dance with Joint Decree of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture
and Minister of Home Affairs, Nos. 233/Kpts/Hm/4/1976 and 76/1976,
respectively;


﻿-4-
(t) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(u) "Settlement Areas" means the Existing Settlement Area
and the New Settlement Areas collectively;
(v) "Singkut Settlement Area" means an area of about
48,000 ha located across the Trans-Sumatra Highway between the
town of Sarolangun and the Jambi-South Sumatra provincial border
in the Borrower's Province of Jambi; and
(w) "Transmigration Program" means the Borrower's ongoing
program for resettling families from the islands of Java, Bali and
Lombok to, mainly, the islands of Sumatra, Kalimantan, Sulawesi
and Irian Jaya.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to sixty-seven million dollars ($67,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1989, and ending June 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
June 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural,
economic, engineering, environmental and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ, as set forth below,
consultants/specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion:
(a) by August 31, 1979, to assist DGH in, inter alia,
reviewing construction plans, planning and supervising the imple-
mentation of soil erosion works, implementing training programs,
supervising land clearing and road construction, and preparing
designs of future settlement sites;
(b) by October 31, 1979, to assist DGT in, inter alia,
advising on systems of transportation and supervising the con-
struction of community facilities, public buildings, cooperative
infrastructure, settler housing and water supply systems;


﻿-6-
(c) by December 31, 1979, to assist JMT in, inter alia,
setting up and operating the Ofi-ices of Project Coordinator and
Regional Project Coordinator, establishing and implementing
procedures for monitoring and evaluating preparation and implemen-
tation of the Transmigration Program including the Project.
(d) by December 31, 1979, to assist DGFCA, DGLS and DGC in,
inter alia, implementing training programs for agronomists,
managers of village cooperatives and agricultural and livestock
extension workers, assessing future staffing requirements, plan-
ning and implementing each agency's program, undertaking resource
surveys for planning future settlements under the Transmigration           -
Program, and assisting in supervising the construction of facili-
ties needed for the agricultural supporting services.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Assuciation at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its


﻿-7-
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under this Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the hospitals
and health centers referred to in Part A.4 (b) of the Project are
built and staffed and that the sub-health centers are adequately
operational before the Participating Farmers arrive in the New
Settlement Areas,
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that Partici-
pating Farmers in the New Settlement Areas are supplied with
the agricultural inputs referred to in Part A.11 of the
Project.
(b) In the event of crop failure or other circumstances
beyond the control of the Participating Farmers during the first
year of settlement, the Borrower shall distribute rice and other
essential commodities, referred to in Part A.12 of the Project,
for the second year of settlement.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
prior to the arrival of the Participating Farmers in the Settle-
ment Area, the Borrower shall ensure that an REC for that Area has
been established, equipped and adequately staffed.


﻿-8-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall before June 30, 1982,
improve the following roads to a standard to permit the effective
and timely implementation of the Project:
(a) the road running south from Muara Bungo through Bangko
to Sarolangun and the Singkut Settlement Area;
(b) the road running southeast from Muara Bungo to the port
of Jambi; and
(c) the connecting road from Sarolangun to the Muara
Bungo-Jambi road.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause each agency partici-
pating in the Project to submit to the Association by June 30,
1980, for review and comment a detailed plan of operation indi-
cating how it will handle its responsibilities and duties under
the Project.
Section 3.11. In order to ensure an orderly and timely
development of food and tree crops, the Borrower shall:
(a) minimize the division of the 2 ha per family provided
for the house lot and food cropping areas;
(b) submit to the Association for review and comment by
December 31, 1980, a plan for developing 2.25 ha per family,
which plan shall discuss, inter alia, provisions for food crops,
tree crops, agricultural and other development, the impact on
the environment, prospects for timber sales and utilization
of settlers' labor in land clearing; and
(c) thereafter carry out the plan in accordance with its
terms.
Section 3.12. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1979, appoint the following qualified and experienced staff
after affording the Association an opportunity to comment on the
qualifications and experience of the Project Coordinator:
(i) a Project Coordinator in Jakarta to coordinate
the activities of the Borrower's agencies involved
with the Project, that is, inter alia, DGH, DGT,
DGFCA, DGLS and DGC;


﻿-9-
(ii) a Regional Project Coordinator at the field project
headquarters to coordinate the activities of the
regional implementing agencies; and
(iii) for each of DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC a Site
Manager at each Settlement Area to be responsible
for the day-to-day operations at such Settlement
Area; and
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1979, desig-
nate for each of DGH, DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC a Liaison Officer
in Jakarta and at field project headquarters.
Section 3.13. In order to ensure sound management of cooper-
atives in the Settlement Areas, the Borrower shall appoint, or
shall cause to be appointed, for each village a qualified person
to assist the cooperatives in their development and operations
for a period of up to four years.
Section 3.14. The Borrower undertakes that all agencies
involved with Project implementation including, inter alia, DGH,
DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC shall be adequately staffed to carry out
their responsibilities under the Project.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall ensure that each settler in
a New Settlement Area receives a certificate evidencing: (a) Hak
Pakai (i) to his house lot (0.25 ha) and 1.75 ha of other land
within one year after such settler has.arrived, and (ii) to
the remaining 1.50 ha of land within two years after such settler
has arrived; and (b) Hak Milik to all land within 5 years after
arrival on site.
Sect.on 3.16. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit referred to in Part B.1 of the Project to
carry out, as required, studies relating to monitoring and evalu-
ation, in consultation with the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall submit by September 30, 1979, to the
Association for review and approval, the terms of reference for
the studies referred to in Part B.4 of the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall submit by December 31, 1979, to the
Association for review and approval, the terms of reference for
the studies referred to in Part B.5 of the Project.


﻿- 10 -
(d) The Borrower shall submit to the Association for review
and approval all work programs, to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or Loan, prepared to carry out the work referred to
in Part B.3 of the Project.
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall permit Participating Farmers
and land clearing contractors to market timber from the areas
designated for clearing within the Settlement Areas regardless
of the diameter of the timber, but otherwise in accordance with
applicable regulations of the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Category (3) of the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure.
(b) Without limitation on subsection (a) above, the Borrower
shall (i) cause each project implementing agency that is, DGH,
DGT, DGFCA, DGLS and DGC, to maintain separate accounts in respect
of the Project and to audit such accounts within such agency as
appropriate; (ii) cause such accounts to be collected and sent
annually to the Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.12
(a); (iii) cause such accounts to be audited for each fiscal
year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; and to be furnished to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of the accounts for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of this
Agreement as to whether  he proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from


﻿- 11 -
the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iv) to cause to be furnished the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02.    The Borrower undertakes that the roads
constructed or improved under the Project shall be adequately
maintained and that all necessary repairs thereof shall be made,
all in accordance with appropriate highway engineering practices,
and that the funds, equipment, workshop facilities and other
resources required for the purpose shall be provided promptly as
needed.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Governing Regulation or any provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended, varied or waived, so
as to affect adversely the carrying out of the Project or the
performance by the Borrower of any other of its obligations under
this Agreement; and
(b) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or credit made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing therefor;
or


﻿- 12 -
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement have been fulfilled, save only the effectiveness of
this Agreement; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, save only
the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 13 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the agreements referred
to in Section 6.01 (a) and (b) have each been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower, and each is legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 4, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.14 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DITJMON JKT 46415
JAKARTA                          DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-14-
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washiigton, D.C.                  248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Is/ D. Ashari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                  81,000,000        80%
(2) Equipment, goods,            11,300,000
cattle and vehicles:
(a) imported                                  100% of foreign
directly                                 expenditures
(b) imported equip-                           65%
ment and imported
goods procured
locally
(c) equipment and                             95% of local
goods locally                            expenditures
manufactured                             (ex-factory)
(d) locally                                   40% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
vehicles
(e) cattle procured                           40% of local
locally                                  expenditures
(3) Relocation of,               16,000,000        60%
and subsistence
allowances for,
Participating
Farmers


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Consultants' ser-            23,100,000        100%
vices including
start-up vehicles,
mapping, research
and training
(5) Agrochemicals                 7,400,000
(a) imported                                  100% of foreign
directly                                 expenditures
(b) locally                                   50% of local
procured                                 expenditures
(6) Unallocated                  18,200,000
TOTAL         157,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases, the
Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase


﻿- 17 -
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
tem as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank or the Association shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's ongoing Transmigration
Program and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Resettlement along the Trans-Sumatra Highway of about 30,000
families in the Alai Hilir Settlement Area, Kuamang Kuning Settle-
ment Area, the Kubang Ujo Settlement Area and the Hitam Ulu
Settlement Area, and upgrading of conditions and services for
about 4,000 families in the Singkut Settlement Area. In order to
accomplish the resettlement and upgrading, the following will be
provided:
1.   Clearing of about 37,500 ha of forested land for new
families and about 7,500 ha for roads and public
facilities.
2.   Construction of about 680 km of access and link roads
and about 1,500 km of village roads at the New Settle-
ment Areas, and construction of about 100 km of village
roads and upgrading of about 30 km of access and about
120 km of village roads at the Singkut Settlement Area.
3.   Provision of adequate water supply by the construction
of about 6,800 shallow wells and about 200 deep wells
for water supply at the New Settlement Areas, and about
750 shallow wells and 100 deep wells at the Singkut
Settlement Area.
4.   Construction of (a) about 30,000 houses with sanitary
facilities for the new families; and (b) community
facilities for each village in the New Settlement Areas
including, inter alia, schools, places of worship,
village halls, offices, stores, markets, banks, post
offices and health care facilities, including referral
hospitals at Muara Bungo and at Bangko and a health
center for every 8,000 to 10,000 families and a sub-
health center for about every 1,000 families.
5.   Construction and upgrading of offices and related
facilities for project personnel at field project
headquarters and at each Settlement Area.


﻿- 19 -
6.   Construction of a 30 m x 1,200 m airstrip at Sarolangun,
upgrading the airstrip at Rimbo Bujang to 30 m x 1,200
m, and provision of air communications facilities at
each site.
7.   Construction of offices, warehouses, REC's and related
facilities for agricultural supporting services.
8.   Construction of a centrally located cattle reception and
distribution center; provision of about 8,750 head of
cattle, including about 8,330 cows and 85 bulls to be
imported, of which about 7,900 head would be distributed
to Participating Farmers in the New Settlement Areas and
about 850 head to the Participating Farmers in the
Singkut Settlement Area; and provision of livestock
extension services.
9.   Construction in about 75 villages in the New Settle-
ment Areas of warehouses and related facilities for
farmers cooperatives, and construction and upgrading of
farmer cooperative facilities in each village in the
Singkut Settlement Area.
10.   Distribution to each Participating Farmer in a New
Settlement Area upon arrival at the Area of an initial
package of grain, vegetable seeds and perennial
seedlings.
11.   Distribution to each Participating Farmer for three
years of agrochemicals to support food cropping on about
37,500 ha of land in the New Settlement Areas and about
5,000 ha in the Existing Settlement Area.
12.   Distribution of rice, other essential commodities,
implements and tools to Participating Farmers in New
Settlement Areas during the first year of settlement.
13.   Mobilization and transportation of settlers to the
Settlement Areas.
14.   Support for agrarian activities, including, inter alia,
surveying site boundaries, laying out farm parcels, and
issuing certificates of Hak Pakai and Hak Milik.


﻿- 20 -
Part B:
1.   Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to coordinate the
implementation of its Transmigration Program by, inter
alia, establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
within the Office of the Junior Minister for Transmi-
gration.
2.   Strengthening the Borrower's Project implementation
capacities by providing training for the personnel of
DGA, DGFCA, DGLS, DGC and DGT including, inter alia,
training in cost accounting and financial management,
planning and design and construction supervision.
3.   Identification, survey, mappiag, planning and detailed
design for future settlement areas under the Borrower's
Transmigration Program, with the assistance of con-
sultants.
4.   Agricultural studies at the Settlement Areas and other
possible transmigration settlement areas.
5.   Studies by DGT related to the Transmigration Program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods, including with-
out limitation, agrochemicals; civil works and services for
construction of roads and land clearing shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA   Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail aid containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Bidders for land clearing and road construction shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 22 -
5.   Bid invitations shall, wherever feasible, be grouped together
in order to attract international competition.
6.   Contracts for construction of roads and land clearing of
Settlement Areas shall be divided into five contracts, each for
a period of about three and one-half years and each covering
about 9,000 ha.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Bidders for all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost more than $100,000 equivalent shall be prequalified in accor-
dance with the Borrower's normal procedures.
2.   Contracts for construction of farmer housing, water
supply, agricultural infrastructure and community facilities may
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
under the Borrower's procurement procedures, and contracts for
works shall be grouped, wherever feasible, into packages of at
least $100,000 equivalent.
3.   Items of equipment, spare parts and supplies estimated
to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each may be purchased on
the basis of the regular procedures of the Borrower, provided that
the aggregate amount of such items shall not exceed $2,000,000
equivalent.
4.   Contracts for mapping may be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally under the Borrower's
procurement procedures.
5.   Contracts for up to fifteen vehicles necessary for
start-up use by consultants may be procured under the respective
consultant's contracts on the basis of at least three price
quotations.
6.   (a) Cattle for the Project to be procured locally
shall be procured in accordance with purchasing guidelines accept-
able to the Bank.
(b) Cattle for the Project to be procured from outside
Indonesia shall be procured on the basis of at least three price
quotations from suppliers of livestock from member countries of
the Bank (which for this purpose includes Switzerland) free from
foot-and-mouth disease.


﻿- 23 -
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(a) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associ-
ation that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Indonesia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(b) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Indonesia.
(c) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 24 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost more
than $100,000 equivalent, contractors shall be required to pre-
qualify as provided in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for
qualification applying for such preference shall be asked to
provide, as part of the data for qualification, such information,
including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the
Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 25 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part D above and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Associa-
tion for its comments before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions
to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost more than
$100,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders,
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 26 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


