Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10658
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2040-PH)
MAY 15, 1992
dxs(s
d;a ~o *,t
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution ani may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASSP     =    Agricultural Support Services Project
BAR           Bureau of Agricultural Research
DA       -    Department of Agriculture
FNP            Food and Nutrition Plar
FSSRI    -    Farming Systems and Soil Resources Institute
IPB      -    Institute of Plant Breeding at UPLB
ISNAR    -    International Service for National Agricultural
Research
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture (later changed to DA)
NEP      =    National Extension Project
PCARR    =    Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources
Research (later renamed PCAARD)
PCARRD  =    Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources
Research and Development
RIAR           Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Station
SCUs     -    State Colleges and Universities
TA            Technology Adaptation
TG             Technology Generation
TV       =    Technology Verification
UPLB           Un'.versity of the Philippines at Los Banos
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Pesos per US$)
Year                                          Exchange Rate
1981 (Appraisal)                                   7.50
1982                                               8.99
1983                                              12.37
1984                                              18.37
1985                                              19.28
1986                                              21.40
1987                                              20.63
1988                                              21.27
1989                                              21.90
1990 (Completion)                                 27.06
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)



FOR OFCML USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oice of Di,ectorCGe al
Op.tati.m Evakiatkm
May 15, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on PHILIPPINES - Agricultural
SupDort Services Proiect (Loan 2040-PH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report on the Philippines: Agricultural Support
Services Project (Loan 2040-PH)" prepared by the East Asia and
Pacific Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by
the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfofmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PRWET COMPLETIOW RE T             FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PHILIZZUIUf
AGRICTWTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2040-PE)
TABLB OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .................................. 
Basic Data Shoot                                                        Ii
lvaluataon Suh  ry  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             v
OVERVIEW
A.    Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
B.   Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
C.   Project Implementation  ................. .                          3
D.    Project Reultsand Impact  ............... .                         4
E.   Project Sustainability         ..               .    ...             6
Fo   Bank Performance  . . ................ . . ..                        7
C.   Borrower Performance           ...                 -                 9
B.   Consultilu Servs        ce...                                        9
1.   Issues                                                               9
Annexe
1. Project Implementation   ............... .                      13
2. Bank Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . .    16
3. Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . ..   . . . . . . . .       17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I* Introduction  . .         . . . *    .                             19
II. Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal                  21
III. Project Restructuring.   *  .......  .. ........ **..              24
IV. Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
V. Financial Perform.nce    *.......  ...0 ..o   &           .        48
VI. Institutional Performance and Development . . . . . . . . .        62
VII. Economic Re-evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        68
VIII. Conclusions and Recommendations . . . . . .  .  .  .   . . .  . .  69
Tableo in Text
1.  Change. in ASSP Structure  .          .. .. .   . .                  29
2.  Overall Accomplishment of ASSP By Major Category and
Subcomponent and Implementing Agency/Office (1981-90) . .        33
3.   Procurment Timetable  ... .... .... ....                            44
4.   Flow of Activities for Civ.l Workes Project.o       . .   .         47
S.  Projections and Actual Expenditures Per Component  . . . . .         54
rThis document has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pame Po.
6.  Projections and Actual Expenditures Per Category . . . . . .    56
7.  Loan Allocation and Availments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    58
8.  Actual vs. Estimated IBRD Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . .    61
9.  Estimated DA Training Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . .    64
10. Distribution of Slots (Trained Manpower)   . . . . . . . . .    64
11. Revised Targets vs. Actual Accomplisbients (Training)  . . .    65
12. Total Local and Foreign Consultants Hired  . . . . . . . . .    67
Fitures in Text
1.  Average Exchange Rate  . .................................      49
2.  RIARs IVs Savings Generated Due to Chan,e in Exchange Rate      51
3.  Total Project Cost - Per Category  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    52
4.  Total Project Cost - Per Major Component . . . . . . . . . .    52
5.  Total Project Cost - Per Source of Financing . . . . . . . .    53
6.  Process Flow Summary - Loan Availment Out of Special Account    60
Map:
IBRD 23717



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2040-LM    .
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Agricultural Support
Services Project in the Philippines, for which Loan No. 2340-PH in the amount of
US$45.0 million was approved on July 14, 1981. The loan closed on December 31,
1990, two years after tle original closing date of December 31, 1988. There were
three loan cancellaticns of US$lB.O million on October 24, 1985, U$8.0 million
on December 29, 1987, and US$1.4 million on September 3, 1990.   The last
disbursement was on May 7, 1991.   An undisbursed balance of US$698,769.43
remaining after the last disbursement was canceled. The final loan amount was
US$19.9 million.
The PCR was prepared by the Department of Agriculture (DA), the lead
implementing agency for the project. The Preface, Basic Data Sheet, Evaluation
Summary and Overview were prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region. The Overview is based, inter
alia, on the PCR; the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3378-PH) dated June 23, 1981;
the Loan Agreement dated August 25, 1981; the Bank's Supervision Reports and
project files; discusslnns with the Borrower's project staff and World Bank staff
associated with the project; a draft Project Brief dated January 23, 1992 on a
follow-on project called Agricultural Research, Training and Extension Project,
prepared by the PAO/CP identification mission of September/October 1991; and a
three-volume Evaluation Report on the project prepared by the Development Academy
of the Philippines in December 1988.
The East Asia and Pacific Regional Office wishes to express its
appreciation to the DA for having prepared a comprehensive PCR.   Since the
Borrower has prepared a detailed, frank and objective report, the PCR was not
returned for comments.



- iii -
PRkOJECT COHPLIZTION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2040-PB)
BASIC DATA SHEET
tEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or            Actual As 2 of
expectation     current estimate    appraisal estimate
Projact costs (Us$ million)                        77.1              40.6                52.7
Loan/Credit mount (US$ million)                    45.0              19.9                44.2
Date board approval                            06/16/81          07/14/81                 -
Date effectiveness                             10/31/81          11/10/81
Date physical components completed             12/31/87          12/31/90                 -
Proportion then completed (I)                     100.0              90.0                90.0
Closing date                                   12/31/88          12/31/9Y..
Economic rate of return (2)                           -
Financial rate of return (Z)                          -
Institutional performsnce                             -           Average
Agronomic performnce                                  -
Number of direct beneficiarie                         --
SW DATA
Speciali-
Date     No. of     Man-days      zations      Performance              Typo of
Mission             (no/yr)   persons    in field   reprisentedla    ratlng,L   Trendle    proble_s/d
Reconnaispance (CP) 03/79         2           10           n.a.
Identific. (CP)     07/79         5           75      b,-.g.a,a
Preparation (CP)    01/80         5          140      b.b,a,c.d
Appraisal           04/80         5          140      a,a,b,c,g
Post Appraisal      10/80         4           60        a,a.b.h
Subtotal                              42"
Supervision 1       03/82         2           12            a,d              2        2         F.M
Supervision 2       09/82         1            7               a             2        3         F,M
Supervision 3       09/83         2           17            *,e              3        1         F,M
Supervision 4       03/84         1            6               a             3        3       P,M,0
Supervision St     10/84         3           30    a*f.b (cp)            n.r.    n.r.         n.r.
Supervision 6       03/85         1            6               a             2        1         F,O
Supervision 7       09/85         1            6               a       2/2/2/2/e      -           -
Supervision 8       06/86         2           12             a.b       3/2/2/2        -           -
Supervision 9       03/87         1            6               a       3/2/2/2        -           -
Supervision 10      08/87         1            7               a       3/2/2/3        -           -
Supervision 11      11/87         1           21               a       2/2/2/2 -      -
Supervlsion 12      02/88         1            5               a          n.r.        -           -
Supervision 13      08/88         1           11               a       2/2/2/2        -           -
Supervision 14      02/89         1            2               a       2/2/2/2        -           -
Supervision 15      07/89         1            3               a     2/3/2/2/3A       -           -
Supervision 16      04/90         1            2               a     2/3/2/2/2L&      -           -
PCR                 10/91         1            2               a             -        -           -
Subtotal
TotL                                5



- iv -
CNJIATIVR DIS3URSXKNIS
FY82   FY83   FY84   FYP5   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Apprais6l estimate (US$ mln)    O.t0   3.40  11.50  22.60  33.30  42.10  45.00           -       -      -
Actual (US$ mln)                 0.06   0.16   0.90   2.83   5.62   7.30   9.36  17.18  18.67  19.90
Actual as Z of estin'Ate            10      5      8      13      17     17      21     38      4:     44
Date of final disbursement  05/07/91
Principal repaid to
(mo/day/yr) (US$ mla)                        US$7.77 million as of February 29, 1992
OTMH PROJECT DATA
Total Time (staffweaka) Recorded by Fiscal Year/Activity
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  Total
LENP     10.2  69.4   -      -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -    79.6
IN'      -    44.5  76.7   -      -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -   121.2
LENN      -     -      2.8   0.7   -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     3.5
SPN       -     -      -     8.7   6.3  15.8  24.2  14.0   9.0  11.4   5.5   3.0   0.1   -    98.0
PCR       -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -     -     -      7.0   7.0
Total    10.2 113.9  79.5   9.4   6.3  15.8  24.2  14.0   9.0  11.4   5.5   3.0   0.1   7.0 309.3
Borrower                                      Government of the Philippines
Executing Agency                              Ministry of Agriculture, later Department of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Botrower                       Calendar Year
Name of Currency (abbreviation)               Peso (P)
Appraisal year average                      1981       US$1.00 - P  7.50
Intervening years average                             US$1.00 - P 18.03
Completion year average                     1990       US$1.00 - P 27.06
Follow-on project:                            None
/a  a - agriculturist; b - economist; c - soils and laboratory specialist; d - institutions and training
specialist; e - architect; f - extension specialist; g - veterinary/livestock specialist; h a nutrition
Fpecialist.
L   I - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - moderate problems; and 3 - major problems
/c  I - improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - det'riorating
/d  F - financial; M - managerial; T -  technical; P - political; and 0 - other
Le  From late 1985 the ratings were for available funds/project management/development Impact/overall
status.
If  Redesign mission.
Lg  Ratings were for overall status/project development objectives/compliance with legal covenants/project
management performance/availability of funds.
n.a. not available
n.r. not rated (no Form 590 was produced)
(CP) - PAO Cooperative Program.



-v -
PROJECT COFLETITo RzPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOA 2040-PO)
EVALUATION SUMNARY
Progect Q!i1.ctlves and De*crfttion
1.        The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) aimed at enhancing the
agricultural research, regulatory and planning capability in the Philippines,
principally that of the Ministry of Agriculture  (MOA), later renamed the
Department of Agriculture (DA). The project supported the national Food and
Nutrition Plan (PNP) of December 1980, which, inter alia, aimed to increase and
diversify production of food and other agricultural commodities and thus made new
demands on the country's agricultural services, including planning and research.
The project complemented the National Extension Pro4ect or NEP (Loan 1626-PH,
signed on December 21, 1978), which was designed to steengthen MOA's agricultural
extension service.
2.        Specifically,  thei project,  over a  six-year disbursement  period
beginning in FY82, was to (a) strengthen the national agricultural research
capability by providing BOA with funds, to be channelled through the Philippine
Council for Agriculture and Resources Research and Development (PCARRD), which
was responsible for coordinating agricultural research in the country, in support
of farm technology generation (TG)I and directly supporting the Institute of
Plant Breeding (IPF) at the University of the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB) and
the farm systems research program being developed within UPLB's Department of
Agronomy; (b) strengthen the applied agricultural research and experimental
capability of BOA by providing it with a technology verification (TV) fund; (c)
strengthen the new Regional Offices oL the BOA by upgrading nine Regional
Integrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARs) on which appropriate small-farm
technology relating to cropd and livestock was to be tested before being released
for farmer use through the extension service; (d) strengthen two BOA staff
Bureaus responsible for regulatory matters affecting crops and livestock; (e)
strengthen MOA Central Office by improving project planning, preparation,
implimentation, management, and monitoring capability specifically by funding
*.aff training, and special studies on food, nutrition, and the rural economy;
and (f) provide for a second national nutrition survey to be conducted by the
Food and Nutrition Research Institute (MI).  Te achieve the above objectives,
the project was to fund civil works, vehicles and equipment, training,
consultants, and incremental salaries and operating and maintenance costs
(including inpute and chemicals).



- vi -
3.        The MOA had the ovarall responuibillity for project implementation. To
Implement its own components, a Project Management Office (PMO) was to be
established within the Ministry, responsible to a Project Management Committee
headed by the Mir,ister of Agricalture.   UPLB and FNRI were responsible for
implementing their components.
IDlementation 3xDerience
4.        Project implementation was adversely affected by soma deficiencies in
project design, local funding problems from the very early stages, lack of
experience of MOA staff in implementing projects of this magnitude a-d complexity
(number of subcomponents increased from the original 24 to 35 after the second
restructuring in 1987), unfamiliarity of the project staff with Bank procedures,
changing government policies and time-consuming rules and regulations on
procurement and budget releases, insufficient staff expertise ilt preparing tender
documents and technical specifications, delays and deficiencies in construction
due to fundin6 -ird contractor capability problems, eaveral changes in MOA/DL top
management (particularly after the new Government came to power in 1986) with
attendant changes in development approach and management style, change of Project
Manager, and several reorganizations of the DA.  Project implementation was
delayed from the outset due to the non-inclusion of the project in the 1982
government budget. The slow reorganization of the MOA, starting in 1980, also
affected ASSP implementation.  The MOA was to finalize by January 31, 1982 a
staffing plan showing duti.. ! and deployment of personnel in the Ctntral Office,
the Bureaus and the Regional Offices. This was done only in 1985 but the new
government in 1986 introduced further changes. In the meantime, there was job
insecurity at all levels of the MQA and insufficient support to Regional Offices.
As a result of the early implementation problems, the project underwent
restructuring in 1984185 and 1987 and project completion was delayed by three
years to December 1990. The 1984/85 restructuring added an extension component
(to continue the extension delivery system of NEP, completed in 1984, based on
a modified T&V methodology), the construction of a central soils laboratory, and
the use of the Special Account facility to speed up disbursement of loan
proceeds.    The  1987 restructuring added small components  for two RIARs
substations, sugar research and develooment, ramie research and development,
cropwatch, rubber development, tribal agriculture, post-harvest research and
development, additional funds for project preparation, and support to Foreign-
Assisted Project Office. At completion, the project cost was estimated at P 835
million, a 44 percent increase over the appraisal estimate of P 578 million.
However, due to a steep devaluat'on of the peso from P 7.50 - US$1.00 at
appraisal in 1981 to P 27.06 in i990, the project cost in US dollar terns was
only US$40.6 million (53 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$ 77.1 million),
and the final Bank loan disbursement was US$19.9 million, compared to the
original loan amount of US$45.0 million.
5.        The 1987 reorganization of the DA particularly affected the research
subcomponents relating to TG, TV and technology adaptation (TA). Until 1986, TG
funds under the project were warranted to DA (except funds for IPB, small-farm
systems, and applied communication, which were directly warranted to the relevant
institutions) and then ?assed on to PCARRD for transfer to institutions with



- vii
approved TO programa.   In 1987,  .ne DA'o Agricultiural Research Office was
upgraded to a staff Bureau of Agricultural Research (BAR), which wvnted to exert
greater influence on -he diroction and scope of TO research and to administer the
TG funds itself.   The disagreement persisted and PCARRD withdrew from its
responsibility of overseeing TG research under the project on July 1, 1988. As
a result, there were few achievements in TO research under the project after 1987
(except for the insulated IPR and small-farm systems research). The problem was
subsequently realized by the DA. In June 1990, the BAR signed with PCARRD a
Memorandum of Agreement, which gives authority to PCARRD for the review of and
budgetary recommendations for all TO research, whilu BAR can aliocate funds from
its own approved budget to its prioi .y TA end TV activities. The arrangement
appears reasonable and has worked so far. Earl4er, in October '988, the BAR kad
done a creditable job of formulating a National Agricultural R--v'earch and
Extension Agenda (HAREA) for the medium term (i288-92) after extensive
interagency consultations. The NAREA sets priorities for research and extension.
6.        The 1987 reorganization also resulted in the removal of all core staff
of researchers from RIMs to the provincial offices and halting of the very
active Provincial Technology Verification Teams (PTmV) program.   The PTVT
consisted of extension workers trained and guided in conducting on-farm trials
for verification of technologies generated by TG and TA activities. After 1987,
the whole RIARs program virtually collapsed and very few on-farm trials were
uonducted.  Once again the DA realized the problem and plans were drawn up in
1991 for 13 RIARs (now named Regional Integrated Agriculture.1 Research Centers
or RIARCs) to become the DA's regional facilities for research end development,
administered directly by the BAR.
7.        Despite the earlier implementation problems, the three-year delay, end
setbacks under the 1987 reorganization of the DA, the project at completion had
largely achieved the appraisal physical targets for infrastructure, vehicles and
equipment, training, and consultancies end had funded the incremental operating
costs.
Results
8.        Overall, the project was marginally successful at completion and had
a partial institutional impact. Had the setbacks to the rese.tch component not
occurred in 1987-90, the project results and impact would have been more
significant. The quantitative accomplishments of the project are significant in
terms oE infrastructure facilIties established, vehicles and equipment procured,
trainin-/workshops conducteC plant and livestock regulatory services and soils
laborat,wry services performed, extension-related instructional materials
producei', TG, TA and TV-related studies and trials undertaken, regional
agricultiral data collection and delivery systems operationalized, projects
prepared,  end national nu.rition  surveys conducted.   In totality,  these
accomplisements were in line with the objectives of the project. For a project
of this nature, which deals with institutional capability for research end
technology development, provision of regulatory services, and project planning
and preparation, quantitattve measurements of impact are extremely difficult end
the judgement has to be largely subjective.



- vii -
9.        At project completion in 1990, the research subcomponents relating to
plant breeding, small-farm systems research, and applied communications were
succeseftul. Two national nutrition surveys were successfully conducted. The
cc.aponents relating to plant and regulatory services and project planning,
preparation and management were also largely suc^essful.   The subcomponents
implemented by UPLB (plant breeding and small-farm systems research) achieved
particularly significant results. The strengthening of the IPB was successful
in increasing considerably the production of improved seeds and quality was
obviously reliable since sales increased significantly and the operation was
financially viable at the end of the project.   IPB now has one of the best
agricultural research facilities in the Philippines. The expansion of small-farm
systems research was also visibly successful' A new Farming Systems and Soil
Resources Institute (FSSRI) was created under the project in 1982. In 1986, the
FSSRI was designated by PCARRD as the Nationa7 Center for farming systems
research and extension.  The Institute, which had a community-based, demend-
driven approach, was able to establish its credibility on the basis of its
accomplishments by the end of the project. However, the research subcomponents
relating to TG and TA/TV largely failed after 1987, for reasons described in
paras. v and vi. The subcomponent for an extension delivery system, added after
the 1984/85 project restructuring, was also largely unsuccessful, as no serious
attempt wae made to evolve a modified T&V or other suitable extension methodology
for nationwide implementation, though the ASSP tatiined extenrion staff and
contact farmers and made extension services more accessible vo farmers by
augmenting the operating budget of the DA's field units.
Sustainabilitv
10.       Overal.l, the sustainability of the project is uncertain.  All staff
positions established for project implementation were contractual and co-terminal
with the project, so continuity is now primarily in the hands of DA's regular
staff.   The facilities created and regulatory services strengthened by the
project can be utilized only if adequate oporating and maintenance funds are
available, which is not the case so far. The TA and TV capability strengthened
under the project has been largely nonfun^tional since 1988 and, despite the DA's
recent decision to reactivate the RIARCs, its sustainability is uncertain after
tl  implementation in January 1992 of the Local Government Code, which gives the
provincial and municipal authorities considerable discretion in determining the
levels and types of services to be provided to farmers.   The two clearly
sustainable components of the project are the IPB and FSSRI comporints.  To
sustain the accomplishments of a project like ASSP, which can have a significant
institutional impact only in the long-term, it would be desirable to develop a
comprehensive follow-on operation which fully takes into account the strengths
and weaknesses of ASSP.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.       For institution-building projects like ASSP, a clear analysis of design
issues needs to be done at appraisal:  the project design focussed more on
institutional structure and provision of facilities rather than institutional
processes of identifying needs as perceived by farmers, setting priorities,



- ix -
rese,arch/extension linkages, coordination among agencies, and decision-making,
firnanc2tl management and procurement in MOA.  The project design did not include
specific actions for improvement and monitorable indicators of progress in these
intangibles. The implementation capacity of the Borrower was also not analyzed
carefully: the project vas too complex and ambitious in terms of the time frame,
territorial  coverage  and  range  of  components.    Moreover,  the  budgetary
implications of numerous activities in far flung areas were not analyzed. In
particular, since the RIARs model had not been sufficiently tested, a more
gradual phasing of '.plementation should have been considered.  The complex and
time-consuming nature of the processes of reorganization and decentralization was
also not adequately analyzed: the project designers overestimated the commitment
of DA senior management to these processes (Overview, para. 23, 24 and 27, and
PCR, paras. 4.6, 4.8, 4.10, 4.13, 8.2, 8.3 and 8.10).
12.       The design of training components in institution-building projects like
ASSP should be based on a staff/manpower development plan. This was not done for
ASSP and 4isufficient attention was paid to the policies and administrative
measures which limited promotion or reassignment to permit use of acquired skills
(Overview, para. 25, and PCR, para. 6.16).
13.       To ensure smooth implementation, it is necessary to train project staff
in government and Bank procedures for procurement, disbursement, accounting,
budgeting and budget releases (Overview, para. 26, and PCR, paras. 4.1, 4.6, 4.8,
4.10, 4.13, 6.20 and 8.5).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2040-PH)
OVERVIEW
1.        This overview utilizes information from documents (listed in the
Preface) other than the PCR and supplements parts of the PCR relating to project
implementation, project results and impact, sustainability, and Bank and Borrower
performance. In particular, the overview attempts to analyze the issues relating
to the design, implementation, results and sustainability of the research
component of the project in much greater detail than the PCR.
A. Backaround
2.        In 1980/81 when the project was appraised, the incidence of poverty in
the Philippines was about 40-45 percent, despite satisfactory economic growth
during the 1970s. Income distribution was highly skewed and regional disparities
pronounced, with the incidence of poverty reaching 60-70 percent in the least
developed regions. Large numbers of people, especially in the rural areas which
accounted for 80 percent of the poor, suffered from malnutrition and lacked basic
facilities. Real incomes were under heavy downward pressures due to increasingly
unfavorable man/land ratios, expansion of cultivation into marginal lands,
limited employment opportunities in the industrial sector, and a sharp
deterioration in the external terms of trade.
3.        Government's strategy in the 1970. had focussed on self sufficiency in
rice and corn production principally through credit, irrigation and improved
inputs. The strategy did achieve some measure of success. The country became
a net exporter of rice and agricultural production had an annual growth of 5.3
percent over the decade. Rural development programs were also initiated but the
overriding problems of poverty and regional disparities remained.
4.        Government then decided to expand its approach to an integrated
agricultural strategy. A Food and Nutrition Plan (FNP) was prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with technical assistance from the Bank. The FNP
was aimed at increased and diversified food production and improvements in land
and labor productivity.   The strategy called for substantial investments in
various activities, including agricultural research, as means of removing the
technical, economic, and social constraints on production and productivity.
5.        Institutional arrangements in the agricultural sector were diverse and
complex  with  corresponding  problems  of  coordination  and  overlapping
responsibilities.   The MOA was responsible for crop and livestock related
research, planning, regulation and promotion. The National Irrigation Authority
(NIA), an agency of the Ministry of Public Works, was responsible for all



-2-
national irrigation programs.   The Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR) was
responsible for fisheries, forestry, land classification, and some soil
conservation activities. There were also several other autonomous and semi-
autonomous agencies and crop specific institutions.
6.        Agricultural research was conducted by several agencies and coordinated
by the Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research (PCARR), later
renamed the Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research and
Development (PCARRD), which allocated all research funds, including foreign aid,
to the agencies. Foremost among the national institutions was the University of
the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB) with reputable programs in the Institute of
Plant Breading (IPB) and in the Department of Agronomy.   Regional research
programs were also carried out by the State Colleges and Universities (SCUs).
B. Project Obiectives and DescriRtion
7.        Proiect Obiectives.   The project's broad objective was to improve
support services in the agricultural sector in order to raise productivity and
improve nutrition. Specific project objectives included: (i) improvement and
expansion of agricultural research and regulatory services through the
strengthening of MOA's network of agencies and svpport to two other associated
organizations; (ii) strengthening of the regional structure of the MOA especially
in research testing capability; and (iii) strengthening of planning and
management capacity within HOA. The project complemented the National Extension
Project or NEP (Loan 1626-PH, signed on December 21, 1978), which was designed
to strengthen MOA's agricultural extension service.
8.        Project Components.  The original main project components weres
(a) Strengthening of Agricultural Research through: (i) a technology
generation fund provided to MOA, but to be channelled through
PCARRD, to support basic research at the national centers; (ii)
support for technology adaptation and verification through
applied research by MOA on its own stations and in farmers'
fields; (iii) development of Regional Integrated Agricultural
Research Stations (RlARs) to support small-farm system research
in nine of the twelve administrative regions; (iv) development of
the applied communications facilities of PCARRD to improve the
flow of technical information from the research centers to
extension and other users; (v) expansion of capacity and
activities at the IPB, especially in improved seed production;
and (vi) expansion of small-farm systems research at UPLB;
(b) Strengthening of Plant Regulatory Services through support to the
Bureau of Plant Industry of MOA for: (i) expansion of analytical
capacity in the central laboratory; (ii) development of plant
certification capacity; and (iii) improvement of plant quarantine
facilities$



a                - 3-
(c) Strengthening of Livestock Regulatory Services through support to
the Bureau of Animal Industry cf MOA fort (i) expansion of
laboratory facilities for feed analysis; (ii) completion of
facilities for livestock quarantine; (iii) transfer of livestock
field services to the regions; (iv) improvement of livestock
disease diagnostic capacity at the central and regional levels;
and (v) upgrading of facilities for vaccine production;
(d) Strengthening of Agricultural Planning and Management Capacity in
MOA through support for: (i) expansion of project preparation
services; (ii) streamlining and development of central and
regional data and management information systems; (iii) a
national nutrition survey; (iv) establishment of implementation
arrangements for the project; and (v) improved transportation.
9.        Restructuring.  The project was restructured in 1984/85, components
added for extension activities (to continue the extension delivery system of the
NEP, completed in 1984, based on a modified T&V methodology) and construction of
a central Soils Laboratory and it was agreed to cancel $15.0 million from the
original loan amount of $45.0 million because of devaluation of the peso and
delays in construction and procurement. A subsequent restructuring in late 1987
led to another reduction of US$8.0 million in the loan amount but added nine new
components including tribal agriculture, and research on sugar, ramie and rubber.
The components and achievements are summarized at Annex 1 and detailed in Table
2 of the PCR. The final Bank loan amount disbursed was US$19.9 million (Annex
2).
C. Project Implementation
10.       The PCR provides adequate details on project implementation, which was
adversely affected by some deficiencies in project design, funding problems from
the very early stages, unfamiliarity of the project staff with Bank procedures,
changing government policies and time-consuming rules and regulations governing
procurement and budget releases, project complexity with 35 components to be
implemented after the second restructuring in 1987, lack of staff expertise in
preparing tender documents and technical specifications, several changes in DA
top management with attendant changes in development approach and management
style, and several reorganizations of the DA. The impact of the last factor,
particularly the 1987 reorganization of the DA, on the project was very
significant which, though discussed in the PCR, deserves some elaboration.
11.       The 1987 reorganization of the DA (under Executive Order No. 116 of
January 1987) had important consequences for the technology generation (TG) as
well as technology adaptation (TA) and technology verification (TV) components.
The Agricultural Research Office (ARO) of the DA was upgraded and expanded to a
staff Bureau of Agricultural Research (BAR) with a new Director and mostly new
staff.   The BAR was mandated to coordinate, integrate, plan, monitor, and
evaluate the research programs of the DA and its attached agencies. It was also
mandated to source and allocate funds for the DA's research programs.



-4-
12.       Until 1986, TG funds under the project were warranted to DA (except
funds for IPB, small-farm systems, and applied communication, which were directly
warranted to the relevant institutions) and then passed or to PCARRD for transfer
to institutions with approved TG programs. These annual TG approvals for funding
were made on the basis of periodic evaluations and reviews of ongoing TG
research. With a new DA managemert in place in 1986, a disagreement developed
between DA and PCARRD with DA wishing to exert greater influence cn the direction
and scope of TG research since it felt that PCARRD had not done an adequate job
in setting research priorities and in focussing the research on farmer needs.
DA's ARO was clearly not staffed to handle more than its originally assigned
coordinating role for TA at regional and provincial research centers/stations and
TV through on-farm trials. With the 1987 upgrading of the ARO into BAR, TG funds
were no longer transferred to SCUs and single commodity institutions, since the
DA wanted to have TG funds administered by the BAR.
13.       Bank missions were not successful in obtaining DA approval to follow
direct warranting procedures through PCARRD. PCARRD withdrew on July 1, 1988
from its responsibility of overseeing TG research under the project.   This
resulted in few achievements in TG research under the project since 1987.
However, the DA subsequently realized the problem and, in June 1990, BAR signed
with PCARRD a memorandum of agreement, which allocates responsibility to PCARRD
for the review of and budgetary recommendations for all TG research, while BAR
can allocate funds in its internal budget for its own priority TA and TV
activities.
14.       The 1987 reorganization also resulted in the removal of all core staff
of researchers from RIARs to the provincial offices and halting of the very
active Provincial Technology Verification Teams (PTVT) program. The PTVT was an
innovaAion of the RIARs system. It facilitated the involvement of extension
workers in the much-needed on-farm trials for verification and packaging of
production technologies in specific agro-climatic zones in the country. One
PTVT, composed of 2 and 3 members, had been established in each of the 78
provinces of the country. The PTVT, whose members were selected from among the
existing DA extension workers in the area, were mainly responsible for technology
verification and promotion in each of the identified outreach sites. These PTVT
members were trained in technology verification procedures and were closely
supervised by a regional technical team under the RIARs Manager, as well as the
scientists and technical personnel of the Agricultural Research Office (now the
Bureau of Agricultural Research) of the department. After 1987, the whole RIARs
program virtually collapsed and very few on-farm trials were conducted. Once
again the BAR realized the problem and plans were drawn up in 1991 for 13 RIARs
(now named Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Centers or RIARCs) to become
DA's regional facilities for research and development, administered directly by
BAR. RIARC's staffing is planned at 50, while Regional Outreach Stations (ROS),
a maximum of six per region, will have 20 staff each.
D. Proiect Results and Impact
15.       Overall, the project up.s marginally successful at completion. Had the
setbacks to the research component not occurred in 1987-90 (paras. 12-14), the



-5-
project results and impact would have been more significant. For a project of
this nature, which deals with institutional capability for research and
technology development, provision of regulatory services, and project planning
and preparation, quantitative measurements of impact are extremely difficult and
the judgement has to be largely subjective. The quantitative accomplishments of
the project (detailed in Table 2 of the PCR) are significant in terms of
infrastructure facilities established, vehicles and equipment procured,
training/workshops conducted, plant and livestock regulatory services and soils
laboratory  se-vices  performed,  extension-related  instructional  materials
produced, TG, TA and TV-related studies and trials undertaken, regional
agricultural data collection and delivery systems operationalized, projects
prepared, and national nutrition surveys conducted.  A significant achievement
of ASSP as an institutional development project was in the area of manpower
development. Through ASSP, about 300 DA personnel were sent to various degree
courses. This has increased the DA's potential for carrying out its research,
management, and regulatory functions more effectively.   Furthermore, ASSP's
support for additional manpower and operating costs enabled the DA to increase
its activities in the areas of data and agribusiness development project was in
the area of manpower development. With the creation of the Agribusiness group,
the National Nutrition Committee, the Foreign Assisted Projects Office, and the
Regional Agriculture and Fisheries Councils, the planning, project preparation,
and policy development capabilities of the DA were enhanced. In totality, the
above accomplishments were in line with the objectives of the project, which had
been laid down in the SAR as strengthening of the agricultural research
capability in the Philippines; strengthening of the capability of the MOA (now
DA) in plant and livestock regulatory services, and project planning,
preparation, implementation and monitoring; and carrying out of a second national
nutrition survey.
16.       At project completion in 1990, the research subcomponents relating to
plant breeding, small-farm systems research, and applied communications were
successful. Two national nutrition surveys were successfully conducted. The
components relating to plant and regulatory services and project planning,
preparation and management were also largely successful.   The subcomponents
implemented by UPLB (plant breeding and small-farm systems research) achieved
particularly significant results. The strengthening of the IPB was successful
in increasing considerably the production of improved seeds and quality was
obviously reliable since sales increased significa. ".y and the operation was
financially viable at the end of the project. Statioi. development at the IPB,
with an excellent seed storage facility, screen houses, roads, some irrigation,
and lots of equipment, have made this one of the best agricultural research
facilities in the Philippines. IPB also got many Ph.D. scholarships under the
project and has built up considerable staff capability. The expansion of small-
farm systems research was also visibly successful.  A new Farming Systems and
Soil Resources Institute (FSSRI) was created under the project in 1982.  The
Institute  was  able  to  establish  its  credibility  on  the  basis  of  its
accomplishments by the end of the project. A major factor in the succes@ of the
Institute was its flexibility in carving out its role as it evolved.  The
Institute focuses not only on -3search but also on adoption by farmers and was
able to establish a research and development process which involves the small



-6-
farmere and takes into consideration their conditions and aspirations. A major
achievement of the FSSRI was the refinement of the Rapid Rural Appraisal
technique as a practical mechanism for research-extension integration at the farm
level. Another factor in the success of the Institute was the effort put into
building close linkages with the various agencies in the sector: DA and its
regional offices, SCUs, and other research agencies.  These linkages are of
various forms such as close contact and exchange of information, collaborative
research, joint symposiums, and training of staff.
17.       While the project's contribution to the expansion of basic research
capability in plant breeding and small-farm systems is visible, the research
subcomponents relating to TG and TA/TV largely failed after 1987 (paras. 12-14).
The upgrading of potential capability for TA and TV at the regional and farm
levels is yet to show credible results. Translating this potential into reality
depends on the provision of sustained support to the RIARs (now RIARCs) and
proper research prioritization and policy articulation (see paras. 38-41). The
subcomponent for an extension delivery system, added after the 1984/85 project
restructuring, was also largely unsuccessful, as no serious attempt was made to
evolve a modified T&V or other suitable extension methodology for nationwide
implementation, though the ASSP trained extension staff and contact farmers in
13 "model" provinces and made extension service more accessible to farmers by
augmenting the operating budget of the DA's field units.
E. Prolect Sustainabilitv
18.       Overall, the sustainability of the project is uncertain.  All staff
positions established for project implementation were contractual and co-terminal
with the project.  Few staff positions have been regularized.  The facilities
created and regulatory services strengthened by the project can be utilized only
if adequate operating and maintenance funds are available, which is not the case
so far. The TA and TV capability strengthened under the project has been largely
non-functional since 1988 and, despite the DA's recent decision to reactivate the
RlARCs, its eustainability is uncertain after the implementation in January 1992
of the Local Government Code.
19.       The Local Government Code places agricultural extension and most
regulatory functions under the management of the Provincial and Municipal
authorities. The Local Government Units (LGUs) will have considerable discretion
in determining the levels and types of services which they provide to farmers.
The DA has still to decide how to redefine its role in the light of the Code and
what adjustments in institutional arrangements and staffing are required.
Although the Code calls for the closure of Regional Offices, the DA sees these
as being the principal units through which to provide technical (and possibly
funding) support to the Provinces and will argue before the "oversight
commission" for their retention. The future role of Regional Offices (or Field
Stations as DA is proposing they be called) has still to be defined but is likely
to include at least research, subject matter specialist support for extension%
planning assistance and program monitoring.



-7-
20.       The implementation of the Local Government Code,  the underlying
principles of which coincide with the DA's policies as set out in the
Agricultural Development Plan, will make the agricultural services more
accountable to farmers and more respionsive to local needs. In the short term,
however, the introduction of the Code is having negative effects on the
performance  of  the  DA  at  regional  and  provincial  levels.    There  are
understandable apprehensions amongst DA staff about their career prospects, the
possible "de-professionalization" of the service and, above all, the danger of
excessive politicization. There is also a danger that the reallocation of staff
and equipment between regional and provincial levels, which has already started
to take place, could lead to problems; for instance, if regional slots for
researchers are to be filled on grounds of seniority rather than expertise, the
prospects for improving DA's research capability would be bleak.
21.       The two clearly sustainable components of the project are the IPB and
FSSRI components.   As discussed above  (para.  16), the IPB component was
financially viable and is expected to be sustained. Breeder seed produced by the
IPB is purchased by a network of outgrowers involving both the private sector and
the Bureau of Plant Industry of the DA. The system appears to function to the
satisfaction of all parties and no major threat to its sustainability is
foreseen.
22.       The FSSRI, even though a new institute set up under the project,
appears soundly established and sustainable.   The factors in its success,
flexibility and close linkages (para. 16), also augur well for its
sustainability. It has demonstrated the capacity to adapt to external conditions
and perceived needs and should be able to continue to do so, given its location
within the institutional framework of UPLB.   Its close linkages with other
agencies ensures a demand for its services in training and for its collaboration
in research and symposiums.
F. Bank Performance
23.       In retrospect, the Bank should have analyzed the project design more
carefully. At the identification and preparation stages, several issues had been
raised by FAO/CP and by Bank reviewers. Among these issues were the differences
in opinion and resistance of some of the senior staff of the MOA to its
reorganization (which was one of the covenants under the NEP) and lack of
progress on reorganization; institutional arrangements in the agricultural
sector, particularly lack of agreement between MOA and other agencies; limited
capacity of the MOA for project implementation, as evidenced by the problems of
NEP implementation; and high expenditure levels of ASSP compared to the funding
capability of the government. The opposition of some of the powerful Directors
of MOA's Bureaus to the project's objective of strengthening MOA's regional
services was particularly noteworthy. In a situation such as this, it may have
been useful to employ experienced Institutional Specialists to carry out
stakeholder and institutional risk analyses and develop measures for influencing
opponents and reducing risks. However, these issues were not adequately taken
into account in the designing of ASP and the project was clearly too complex and
ambitious in terms of the timeframe, territorial coverage, range of components,



and local funding capability. These factors caused delays in implementation and
necessitated project restructuring. However, each restructuring added components
for which the priority in the overall strategy was not always clear.
24.       The reviewers within the Bank also raised the issue that the Staff
Appraieal Report (SAR) did not present a convincing case of why the particular
series of interventions were necessary and how they were linkcd to specific
problems and constraints which were to be resolved. The project design focused
more on institutional structure and provision of facilities rather than
institutional processes of identifying needs as perceived by farmers, setting
priorities, research/extension linkages, coordination among agencies, and
decision-making, financial management and procurement in MOA. The project design
did not include specific actions for improvement and monitorable indicators of
progress in these intangibles. This created Droblems during implementation and
difficulties ir assessing project impact.
25.       The training component was also inadequately designed.  It was not
based on a staff/manpower development plan for the MOA/DA.   Insufficient
attention was paid to the policies and administrative measures which limited
promotion or reassignment to permit use of acquired skills. As a result, the
expectations of the trained staff were not met and a large number of them left
the MOA/DA upon completion of their studies or did not return. The Central
Training Unit limited its role to administering the training funds. In 1985, the
consultants from the International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR) observed that in the absence of a needs assessment and a master plan, the
training programs being pursued were more the choice of individual students
rather than what the DA required.
26.       The Bank can also be criticized for NOA's unfamiliarity with Bank
procedures for procurement and loan withdrawal which were cited as problems in
the NEP and continued on under the ASSP. It is not clear whether training in
these procedures was provided to MOA staff. Moreover, given the magnitude of
procurement under the project, a review of Government procurement procedures
should have been carried out in order to fit Bank procedures as smoothly as
possible or provide sufficient lead time. The supervision reports describe the
effects of bureaucratic bottlenecks on the project but not the effects of the
project (given its size and complexity) on the administrative capacity of the
MOA/DA and its activities outside the project with respect to processing, funding
etc.
27.       Given  thu  delays  experienced  in  the  regionalization  of  MOA's
activities, known weaknesses in research coordination, and the fact that the
RIARs model had not been sufficiently tested, the Bank should have considered the
implementation of the RIARs on a pilot scale before full-scale implementation or,
alternatively, according to some prioritization of implementation.



_9-
G. Borrower Performance
28.       While it is recognized that the project design was too complex for the
implementation capacity of the MOA/DA, borrower performance in certain areas also
contributed to the problems of the project (Annex 3 shows the status of covenants
under the Loan Agreement). There appears to have been a lack of consensus cn the
part of Government about the project. With respect to MOA, the preparation and
appraisal teams both reported lack of agreement and even opposition from some
departmental heads to decentralization and strengthening of MOA's regional
services. It was only in 1987 (under the General Memorandum Order No. 2, Series
of 1987) that the DA instituted a program of decentralization giving its 12
regional offices a measure of autonomy in carrying out rural development
activities in their respective regions.
29.       The project's implementation was affected from the very beginning by
inadequate levels of funding--no provision was made in the budget for
effectiveness as agreed.   Throughout the history of the project there were
recurring problems of funding, release of funds and bureaucratic bottlenecks and
slow action in addressing these problems.
30.       The project's impact was considerably reduced due to the disagreement
between the DA and PCARRD in 1987-90 (para. 12) and halting of the RIARs program
after 1987 (para. 14).
H. Consultina Services
31.       There was one major international consulting contract and it was
carried out by the International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR) which performed satisfactorily in carrying out a review of some of the
major issues in the organization and coordination of agricultural research. An
expatriate  communications  specialist  also  performed  satisfactorily.    The
Development Academy of the Philippines (DAP) tid an excellent overall review of
the project in December 1988. The DAP was commissioned by the DA to evaluate
ASSP as a part of preparation of a Phase ;, proposal.
I. Issues!/
32.       The implementation of the ASSP has brought to the fore some issues
which have to be faced in designing any follow-on project or other interventions
to improve the research and extension system in the Philippines.
33.       Organization and Management of AMricultural Research.   The PCARRD
network provides the institutional structure for basic agricultural research.
It has a proven track record of competence in agricultural research and has been
considered to be quite capable in the performance of its function. The BAR is
responsible for the research activities of the DA. Being new, the BAR still has
1/ This section draws heavily on the three-volume Evaluation Report on the project by the
Development Academy of the Philippines in December 1988.



- 10 -
to build up its capability in applied agricultural research and match the stature
of PCARRD as a research institution.
34.       The delineation of roles and respensibilities  among the various
institutions engaged in agricultural research deserves priority attention. There
is no institutional conflict in k-aving PCARPD specialize in basic research geared
toward technology generation while BAR specializes in applied research geared
toward technology adaptation and verification. Nonutheless, the two functions,
and consequently, the two institutions, have to be closely coordinated. PCARRD
could provide basic research inputs to BAR and enrich the technology arsenal of
the DA.   BAR, on the other hand, could guide PCARRD toward becoming more
responsive to the technology needs of farmers. In fact, BAR could serve as an
effective link between the scientists of PCARRD and the extension workers of DA.
As an institution, BAR could be an important source of ideas and policies on
agricultural priorities. It is in a suitable position to define both national
and regional priorities in agriculture and to direct research efforts to support
these priorities.
35.       PCARRD. on the other hand, is well suited for its role as coordinator
of basic research activities because it is an institution linked with the science
community. Both PCARRD and BAR are, therefore, key institutions in the field of
agricultural research and should be supported as such. After the June 1990
Memorandum of Agreement between the BAR and PCARRD, the two instit.itions are
complementary rather than adversary and a more conducive climate for agricultural
research could be expected.
36.       The other institution whose role needs to be clarified is the project-
created RIARs. As an institution, RIARs provide an effective and efficient
mechanism  for  integrated  and  applied  agricultural  research.    RIARs  are
particularly suited for technology adaptation and verification work involving
small farm systems and have good potential for providing sustained support
services for the small farmer.
37.       The effectiveness of RIARs (or RIARCs after 1991) hinges on the
continued deployment of their multidisciplinary team of trained agricultural
researchers.   The physical facilities of RIARs were designed to support an
integrated rather than a specialized system. The 1987 DA reorganization stripped
RIARs of their coi1 staff of multi-disciplinary agriculture specialists and
placed the institut.Lon's structural identity in a limbo. What is clear is that
without their core staff, RIARs or RIARCs would be unable to maximally function
as an integrated research station and their facilities would be grossly
underutilized.
38.       Svstem of Prioritization in Agricultural Research.   As a support
service to agricultural development, research priorities should be defined by
national  policies  concerning  agriculture.    Agricultural  commodities  and
supportive factors of national significance should be identified.   Critical
technology gaps obstructing the full and maximum development of these
commodities/factors should be the basis for defining research priorities.  The
ASSP was originally tied to the Food and Nutrition Plan formulated in the late



- 11 -
1970s. This Plan attempted to bring about food sufficiency to small farmers in
order to protect their children from malnutrition. The idea then was to use
technology to help make the small farmer produce enough food for home consumption
and at the same time earn some income to provide for the family's other basic
needs. The project was supposed to set up a broad range of services to support
the small farmer in his efforts towards food self-reliance. Food commodities and
feed crops were highlighted because of the nutritional objectives. These could
have been a good starting point for determining research priorities.
39.       The original concerns of ASSP may have been overlooked as the project
went through several revisions and restructuring to reflect changing priorities
of the new DA management. In the absence of explicit directions form the DA,
PCARRD, together with its inter-agency partners which include DA representatives,
undertook the task of defining research priorities.   This was a case where
research priorities were defined by researchers rather than by prospective
technology users.
40.       With the creation of BAR, an institutional mechanism for correccing the
situation has been put in place. Through the efforts of the BAR, a National
Agriculture Research and Extension Agenda (NAREA) for the medium-term (1988-92)
was formulated.   The NAREA sets priorities  in agricultural research and
extension. Its main objective is to focus research and extension programs to
where they are mostly needed in order to maximize the use of scarce resources as
well as to answer farmers' problems and concerns. As a strategy, the NAREA ranks
R&D priorities by development zone which is a major shift from the traditional
manner of determining priorities by sector or by commodity.
41.       Through the ASSP, a sound framework for undertaking a holistic research
approach geared towards farm systems technology rather than just the usual
varietal types of studies was established.   To be truly useful, however,
technology packages should cover the whole range of production, processing,
packaging, marketing and post-harvest management concerns. The RIARs network was
structurally designed to achieve this integration and RIARs could be fully
activated to enable them to perform this vital function. However, it has to be
realized that the DA, which assumed a lead responsibility for TA and TV research
work after the creation of BAR, is having some difficulty in fulfilling this
mandate as it is unable to attract and retain an adequate cadre of qualified,
experienced staff in the absence of an attractive career path for scientific and
technical staff. Such a scheme has been proposed but it may take time to clear
all the bureaucratic obstacles to its implementation, and still more time before
capable researchers are attracted by it. However, there could be other limiting
factors even if a career stream for scientific and technical staff could be
introduced in BAR. The DA has to decide whether to continue to try to build up
its own research team or whether to concentrate its efforts on developing a
stronger research management capacity and mobilize the SCUs, NGOs and private
sector (very much as the Agricultural Training Institute has done for the
delivery of its training programs) to carry out research in the TA and TV fields
on its behalf. In this case, BAR would take the lead in updating the NAREA and
giving it more specificity, refine research methodologies, commission and monitor
research projects, equip and maintain selected research sites (e.g., RIARCs and



-12 -
ROS) for use by contracted parties and package findings for use in extension and
training. These are areas in which BAR has already demonstrated its capacity.
Moreover incremental staff requirements would be relatively small, reducing
direct costs and administrative overheads and freeing resources to fund priority
projects.
42.       Linkages Between Technololv Generation. Verificati*n and Extension.
There was a logical web under ASSP that linked technology generation to
verification and extension work. Basic research undertaken by scientists in the
PCARRD network served as the take-off point of generating useful technology
packages. These were then adapted and verified in the RIARs stations through
field trials under varying soil and socio-cultural conditions.  Adapted and
verified technology packages were then transmitted to farmer end-users through
PTVT extension services. The flow could also go the other way, i.e., farmers
expressed their needs through the PTVT, and these needs could be communicated
through the research/technology channels for purposes of incorporating into a
regional or national research agenda.   Researchers could then respond by
developing appropriate technology packages which were filtered down to the farmer
end-user through the RTARs and PTVTs.
43.       The ASSP experience, however, did not provide convincing evidence of
this linkage. The mechanisms for transmitting technologies generated to RIARs
for verification and adaptation were weak. What could probably pass as a linking
mechanism was the annual regional reviews conducted by PCARRD to inform the RIARs
and DA staff of the status of technology generation work. In 1986, PCARRD also
produced a list of technologies recommended for verification by the DA and RIARs.
However, there is no definitive evidence to show that technologies generated and
recommended by PCARRD for verification were the same ones that RIARs adapted for
verification trials and passed on to the PTVTs for extension to farmers. What
seemed to be evident was that PCARRD developed its own priorities for TG and each
RIARs also went through its own priority-setting process for determining the
TA/TV work to be pursued.
44.       As regards the link between TV/TA and extension, it could be surmised
that since the PTVTs were attached to the RIARs, the mechanisms for such linkages
were in place. It was noted, however, that PTVTs seemed to be operating on an
ad-hoc arrangement involving part time seconded personnel. The continuity of
such an arrangement after ASSP support for honoraria and maintenance and
operating expenditures was phased out was questionable and these doubts were
later confirmed.
45.       Also, it was observed that despite their attendance i- a number of
short-term courses, the PTVT8 seemed poorly trained for the integrated research
cum extension role in which they were cast. The fact that those PTVTs, being
part-time, were probably overloaded with other work, explained their inability
to master and internalize their new role a8 integrated workers. Problems of
mobility also hampered extension effectiveness since the motorcycle loan
arrangements proved to be beyon4 the affordability level of many PTVTs.



- 13 -
nweA It  PROJECT IMPLE1ENTATION
Plan                                              Achlevmerts
Agriouilural Resroh
Teohnoloav Gaenration rTGl.  Funds to provide PCARRD-    A number of good reoarch program were oarred out
approved reearh for food and feed crops, mail frm  ystems  but coverage of to targetd crops wa  e  than
Inclusive of backyard livestok,                          expoted. This oomponent ceased In 198 when BAR
attempted to tako oontrol of the funds but ran Into
prooedural constraints
TJchnoloav Verifioation 1V.  Funds to provide for tesding  Numerous rearch trials were orried out but impat not
technology paokages on-stion and onrrfm through DA's ARO  apparent and activitles have virtuly cased sinoe 1968
(now Bl.                                                 due to lack of funding and roesignment of staf back to
their pr-project acvities.
Estbishment RiMS vstdem. Upgrade and operate exing DA    12 Regional ations ware constructed, and 72 provinocI
resroh statlons to fulsoae Regional Integraed Agriouitural  stions were upgraded. Equipment and vehleWs were
Resrch Stadions (AR) with sb and utility development,    also provided.
procurement of buildings, mchinery, equipment, supplies, eto.
Insitut for Plant Breedina IIPBi.  Experimenta farm and  Now roads and bridges made previously inaooessible
laboratory development with bulidings, greenhouses, roads,    lands available for reserch work. Support was also
equipment, tc.                                           provided to IPB's seed program which has been
successful.
Small Farrn Sstems Edablishment of new Farming System and  The Institut s well established and has done good work
Soil Resource Institu (FSSRI with support for xpoeimenta    in developing a methodology for farming sytems
supplies, lal;atory and field sttion equlpment, and Incrementa  research whloh Is colely linked to farmer. Close
operating osbt.                                          collaboration was edablished with the RIARS, but In iater
years there were serious fnding constraints for the
RIAR.
Agricultural Extension                                     Pilote were carried out but there was not much follow
Introduotion of method of exension oountywide on tho basis of    through because of lak of Interest In the DA.
a model In Region 3 and In pilot provinoes.
Completion of DA radlo oommunication network.            All equipment procurement and indsalation almost
completed, although now outdated.
Preparfilor/mutpiioation of visual aid and publications.  An Audiovieual Building was oompleted and extension
training material produoed.
M    nt aulatorv Sevies
Commodilv Anais. Procurement of laboratory, equipment,    Building completed and oocupled, most equipment
hiring staff and provbion of Incremental operating costs.  procured.  Central Commodity Analysis Laboratory
oompleted.
Piant Ceitification. Evaluation and regitation of plant materials,    Thre buildings in Regions 4,7 and 11 completed (P 2.5
oeablishment of foundation groves, regitrtion of nureryman.    million)  Procurement  of  equipment
Renovaton of offie  and screen hous, procurement of      completed.    Citrus  program  completed.
equipment, incremental operating costs.                  Rubber and cocoa programs In Findanao.
Plant Quarantin.   Provide  infrastructure  and          Completed   10  facilities.        Equpoment
equipment in  12 major ports and a post-entry            procured.  Post-entry screen houses have
facility near Manila.                                    been completed in Los BDeoe



- 14 -
Pla                                            Achievements
Livestock ReulatcTv Servlices
Food Anale.  Construction of 7 regional labs,          Program  revised  and  6  regional  and  I
equipment for the central lab and 11 regional          Central   laboratories   were   renovated.
labs, additional staff and technical assistance.       Equipment was  procured  and  staff  were
trained. Consultancy completed.
Livestock  OuarantIne.   Completion  of Alabang        Facility completed  but delayed and under
facility-waste treatment plant access  roads,          utilization. Alabang facilities need to be
fencing.                                               relocated.
Livegtock Field Services.   Livestock dispersal        Component  not   implemented  under  the
facilities, trucks and equipment.                      Project.
Livestock  Diease  Dalsnosis.    Upgrading  and        Completed Central lab (P 2.4 million) and
equipping of Central Laboratory at Dili an and        rehabilitated  11  regional  labs  (P 1 *33
establishing and equipping 7 regional labs,            million). Equipment procured.
Vaccine Production.   Modification to existing         Facilities completed . equipment procured,
facilities, procurement of equipment, technical        consultancy completed. Production improved
assistance.                                            considerably  but  long  term  viability
constrained by public sector ownership.
Vaccine Ouallty Control.  Renovation of existing       Construction  and  renovations  completed.
anlmal  housing  at  DIliman  and  construction,       Equipment procured.   ALqbang facilities
equipping animal breeding facility at Alabang.         have to be relocated.
Soils Laboratory, Strengthening                           New building constructed under Japanese
Aid.
Agricultural PlanAlnn
Project Preparation Service.  Continued support        Support provided after DA reorganization,
(incremental  salaries,  technical  assistance,        for project preparation under the Assistant
incremental operating costs) for the Agricultural      Secretary  for  Foreign-Assisted  Project
Project Preparation Unit.                              Office (PAPO).
Data "Vol    nt.   Support for the Bureau of            10 Regional data collection and delivery
Agricultural Econmics  (special studies,  data         systems  operationalized;  an  MIS  was
processing, equipment and incremental operating        developed. Equipment and 152 vehicles were
costs).                                                provided.
Lational Nutrition Survey  foflow up and support       Second and third national surveys were
to nutrition planning.                                 funded. Pilot programs were implemented to
test new approaches to addressing nutrition
problems. Staff were trained and vehicles
and equipment provided.



- 15 -
Plan                                            Achievements
Proiect Manatement
Establishment   and   maintenance   of   Project       Project Management Office was effectively
Management Office with accounting, construction,        established.  Project Director changed in
procurement,  monitoring  and  training  units.        February 1986 and August 1988. Procurement
Support for Food and Nutrition and Agrobusiness        and construction handled slowly, mainly due
studies and pilot schemes.                             to late budget releases and Insufficient
qualified staff.
Establish 442 incremental staff positions.                All positions were contractual and were co-
terminal with the project. Few were given
permanency.
Staff training - Overseas 26 PhD                          Staff trainingt  Overseas  27 PhD (and 1
tert'mated)
45 MSc                                                     32 Mac /a
239 nondegree                                              115 nondegree La
Local    60 usc                                             Local  60 MSe
708 nondegree                                              125 nondegree La
New Comnonents
Tribal agriculture.  Four regions in Luzon and          Implemented  as  envisaged.  Farmer  were
whole lindanao. Training APTq and tribal leaders        trained  and  seed  and  seedlings  were
In    micro-watershed    management,    sloping        distributed and other assistance provided.
agricultural  land  technologies,  etc.    Free
distribution of tree crop seedlings. Assistance
in land tenure problems.
Rubber.    Training  Mindanao  APTS  In  basic         Staff and farzers were tralned, trials and
production    and    processing    technologies.       demonstrations were conducted.
Establishment   of   budwood   nurseries   and
demonstration plots.
Ramis.   Research  program  and procurement of         Research  and  development  studies  were
decorticators.                                         carried out.
Sugar.   Research program  and procurement of          Research on improved yield conducted; sugar
equipment.                                             technicians trained; equipment procured.
Crop watch. Establishing and testing methodology       Pllot system wa etplemented In Region 2.
for more accurate projections of regional food         Workshops were  conducted  and  computers
supplies In pilot areas (Region 2).                    procured.
Post harvest Research and Develoament                  Extension  materials  were  produced  and
launching program for the Corn Sheller
were conducted.
La Other funding was availble.



- 16 -
Annex 2: BANK LOAN DI?SURSEMENTS
(In US$ thousands)
Original
Loan
Category                    Agreement      Revised /a    Revised /b    Final /
Civil works                      14,000       9,500        6,700          6,200
Equipment, materials,
chemicals and vehicles         15,000      13,000       11,400         11,222
Consultant services and
overseas training              10,000       6,500        3,600          2,470
Unallocated                       6,000       1,000          300              -
Special Account                                                             9 Id
Total                 45.000      30.000        22.000        19.901 /e
ia October 24, 1985; $15.0 million cancelled.
iD December 29, 1987; $8.0 million cancelled.
/c September 3, 1990; $1.4 millior cancelled.
/t Represents currency exchange rate fluctuation for transactions made under the
Special Account.
Ie $699,000 cancelled after the last disbursement on May 7, 1991.



_ 17 -
Annex 3:  STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement
Reference                Covenants                        Deadline                       Status
3.01        MOA to make arrangements with MOB for    Loan effectivenese   No funds were made available and start-up
proJect start-up funds.                                      was delayed
3.07 (a)    Establish a Project Management Offlce    Prenegotlatlons      Complied wih.
wih a Project Monioring Unit and appoint
a Project Manager.
3.07(b)    Appointment of a Project Management   Loan effectiveness       Was complied with.
5.01 (b)    Committee.
3.1 O(b)    Designation of Implementation         Loan effectiveness      Was complied with at the time but durdng
5.01(o)     responsibility for the Food and Nutrition                    Implementation placed under PMD.
and Agribusiness components to the
Planning and Programming Division ofthe
Planning Service.
3.07(a)     Estbishment of a Training Unit        Loan effectiveness      Was complied with.
5.01 (a)
3.09(a)     Unkage  of the  Agriculture  Project   Loan effectiveness.    Was complied.
3.1 1 (e)    Preparation  Unit with  the  Project
5.01 (d)    Development and Evaluaton Diviaion of
5.01(e)    the Planning Service and appointment of
a common Director.
3.06        MOA finalize a stafng plan            January 31,1982         ProposalsubmilttedApril15,1981.Finalized
In 1985 but change of Govt In 1986 led to
further changes.
3.08(a)     MOA appoint a Pesearoh Coordinating    January 31,1982        Complied wih.
Committee.
3.08(b)     MOA appoint 12 Regional Research    January 31,1982           Complied wih.
Commttees
3.08(c)     MOA establish 12 regional agribusiness    December 31, 1983   MOA lited Special Orderto create counolis
councis                                                       whIch were established In January 1984.
3.08(d)     Establishment of a small Farm System    July 31,1982          Complied with.
ResFrch Committeo comprbing MOA and
UPLB.



- 18 -
Loan
Agreement
Referenoe                Covenants                       Deadline                      Status
3.08(e)    MOA designate an expanded Philippines   July 31, 1982         Partly complied with.  BPI requested
Seed  Board  to  inolude the  Plant                          Parliament to amend the Seed Act to
Certifioation -Aervlce.                                     Include plant materials certification under
the proposed Seed and Plant Board. As an
Interim measure, BPI has established a unit
to certfy vegetative planting material.
3.09(b)     MOA transfer the survey function of the    January 31, 1982  Complied with.
Special Studles Divislon of the Planning
Service to the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics.
3.10(a)    MOA designate 12 Regional Integrated    January 31, 1982      Complied with.
Agricultural Research Stations (RIARS)
3.11(a)    Appoint and retain a Project Manager.  January 31, 1982       Complied with.
3.11(b)    MOAReglonalDireotor appoint12RLARS    January 31, 1982        Complied with.
Managers
3.11(c)    MOA appoint three Senior Research    January 31, 1982         Complied with.
Coordinatorm
3.12       Satsfactoly arrangements for research In   July 31, 182       Complied with. An Institute (FSSRi) was
email farm systems.                                          established.
3.13       Consuit with the Bank In the event of                         No prior consultation.
major organization changes in MOA.
3.04(c)    Maintenance of system  to record and                          Systems were established and maintained.
monitor progress of the proJect.
3.04(c'     Preparation of a Project Completion                          An evaluation report was commissioned by
Roport.                                                      MAF and submirted to the Bank In 1989
and a PCR In August 1991.
3.14       Submisson by FNR of the Naional   January 31,1982
Nutrition Survey propoa to the Bank for
comment.
3.15       The Project Manager submit to the Bank    October 31,         Complied wih, 1981 to 1987.
research programs funded by the project    annually
4.03       MOA  submit project accounts and    June 30                   Complied with, 1982 to 1989.
auditors' reporte to Bank each year.



- 19 -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2040-PH)
I. Introduction
The Agriculture Sector and the Role of ASSP
1.1      Agriculture dominates the Philippine economy. At the time the project
was being conceptualized, over 30 million people, or 70 percent of the
population, lived in rural areas. Agriculture accounted for 30 percent of the
Gross National Product (GNP), employed over half the nation's labor force, and
contributed about 60 percent of foreign exchange earnings. About 70 percent of
the nine million hectares of land under cultivation was used for growing cereals,
of which rice and corn predominated. Approximately 1.2 million hectares were
irrigated, primarily for rice production.
1.2       Although agriculture's share of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) had been
declining by comparison with other sectors, there was a steady rise in food
production averaging 5.3 percent per annum during the 1970-79 period, when rice
production expanded at 4.7 percent per annum and legumes and fruits at 8.2
percent and 6.8 percent, respectively. This was facilitated by strong government
initiatives including substantial investments in irrigation infrastructure, high-
yielding varieties and technical packages coupled with extension and farm credit.
1,3       There had been substantial growth in the commercial production of hogs
(5.7 percent per annum) and poultry (6.1 percent per annum) during the said
period, but the growth for cattle (2.3 percent per annum) and water buffalo (1.8
percent per annum) did not match the increase in human population which was
growing at about 2.5 percent annually. The national demand for livestock protein
was expected to increase by about 40 percent for beef, pork, and poultry.
1.4       Despite favorable developments in production and farm prices, as many
as 40 percent of rural families were believed to earn incomes below the level
required to provide adequate nutrition and essential goods for minimal standards
of living.   According to the first national nutrition survey, the average
Filipino diet provided only 89 percent adequacy in food energy. More than 30
percent of urban and rural households, compri.inig six members on average, were
found to consume diets with less than 80 percont of energy adequacy.
1.5       The Philippines had 2.35 million f'Arm units, 85 percent of which were
smaller than 5 ha. The national average frarm size was 3.6 ha. Even marginal
land, particularly in the low areas, had already been brought under cultivation



- 20 -
because of population pressure. Since new land availability was limited, most
increases in production had to come from eetablished areas by increasing
productivity.
1.6       The Agricultural Support Services Project  (ASSP) was designed to
address some of the above problems of the agricultural sector. Overall goal was
to increase the production of crops other than rice, particularly food crops,
with emphasis on developing small-farming systems to improve land productivity,
thereby improving farm incomes and diets, and alleviating rural poverty.
National Plans and Priorities that Influenced ASSP
1.7       The ASSP was a complex project, in the sense that it had varied
components covering institutional and staff development, construction and
infrastructure development, and the provision of equipment and other capital
items. Likewise, it provided funding to DA and its various staff bureaus, as
well  as  other  agricultural  institutions,  i.e.,  PCARRD,  IPB,  UPLB.    Its
conceptualization was influenced by the following:
1.8       1978-1982  Philippine DeveloDment Plan.    The promotion of rural
productive employment and the enhancement of the farm household income were the
ultimate objectives of the agriculture sector as declared in the Five-Year
Philippine Development Plan for 1978-1982. For the sector, the vision included
the improvement of the country's internal capability to produce its basic food
and raw material requirements and the maintenance of a stable food supply,
particularly of food grains. Likewise, structural improvements in agricultural
production and marketing were to be implemented in a more integrated manner.
1.9       Food and Nutrition Plan.   In 1981, the government led by the then
Ministry of Agriculture (MA)1' came out with the National Food and Nutrition
Plan (FNP).  It had the following objectives:  (i) to increase and diversify
production in the agriculture sector in order to raise farm incomes, increase
opportunity for farm and rural employment thereby increasing the agriculture
sector's contribution to the domestic and export economy; (ii) to improve the
quality of the diet of all Filipinos; and (iii) to assure a basic minimum diet
for all those who were undernourished.
The Executina Agencies
1.10      Towards achieving the above-mentioned objectives, several agencies were
mandated to promote agricultural development with corresponding regulatory
functions.   Of these, the DA with over 20,000 staff distributed among five
technical bureaus and eleven attached agencies played the most important role.
The DA's presence in the regions extended to the municipal and barangay levels.
LI In 1981, the agency'. name was changed to Department of Agriculture. From hereon, regardless
of time reference, we will refer to the agriculture agency as the Department of Agriculture or
DA.



- 21 -
1.11      While the DA had the capacity to promote agricultural development
(together with the exercise of its regulatory function). it was observed that it
could further amplify its capability by: (i) procuring better facilities and
equipment; (ii) enhancing its system for research, statistics generation and
planning; and (iii) substantially investing in its staff training as a
prerequisite for optimizing the use of its improved facilities. Thus, a project
aiming to enhance agricultural research, regulatory services, and planning
capability of the DA was conceptualized in the later part of 1979.
II. Proiect Identification. PreRaration and Appraisal
Oriatn
2.1       The National Extension Project (NEP) initiated in 1979 partially
satisfied the challenge of upgrading the Department of Agriculture's extension
service.   In order to maximize gains from the improved extension system,
investments had to be placed in services that would generate new and more
effective production technologies.   To ease technical, social and economic
constraints on improved production and productivity, research was given top
priority.
2.2       In turn,  investments  in regulatory services,  particularly those
concerned with making available the supply of superior planting materials and
livestock as well as their prci:-iition from pests and diseases, were deemed
necessary to facilitate adopt%.L cf these new technologies.
2.3       Finally. the need for iolicies and programs that are fine-tuned with
economic realities could only be met by an institution with a reliable data base
and skills in planning, policy formulation and project preparation. Given the
above needs and considerations, the ASSP was conceptualized.
2.4       Agencies Involved in Proiect Preparation.  The project paper was
prepared jointly by the (then) Agricultural Projects Preparation Unit (APPU) of
the Department, and a mission of the PAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (CP),
with extensive assistance from the staff of agencies expected to participate in
project implementation such as Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI). Bureau of Animal
Industry (RAI), Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx) - now Agricultural
Training Institute (ATT) , Bureau of Soils (BS), Bureau of Agricultural Economics
(BAlcon) - now Bureau of Agricultural Statistices (SAS), Philippine Council for
Agricultural Resources Research and Development (PCARRD), and the University of
the Philippines at Los Banos (UPLB).
2.5       Effect of the NEP Loan Arreement.  Under Presidential Decree No. 1579
of June 1978, the Department was mandated to conduct a reorganization, that is,
to establish regional offices and to limit *.he functions of the bureaus to that
of staff agencies, i.e., providing advice and assistance to the Office of the
Secretary, developing plans and programs, formulating operating policies and



- 22 -
standards, and providing technical supervision to the regional offices.  Before
PD 1579, the bureaus had their own regional offices.  The staff of the new
Regional Office of the Department were from the old bureau regional offices.  In
the NEP Loan Agreement, the Government committed itself to implement the
reorganization by January 31. 1980.
2.6       While the general structure of the Regional Offices (RO) was agreed
upon during the NEP appraisal, more detailed structure and staffing of the ROs
and organizational changes necessary for the bureaus to fulfill their staff
functions had not been completed at the time of the preparation of the
Agricultural Support Services Project  (ASSP).   As a result,  a number of
assumptions were made by the project preparation team on the future organization
and staffing of the DA. which had to be modified once the Reorganization
Committee'e report was completed.
2.7       Strengths and Weaknesses of Prolect Desian.   Two of the major
strengths of ASSP's project design were the integration of field services and the
delegation of authority from the Central Office to the Regional Offices in the
delivery of the Department's basic services. These were realized through the
inclusion of various agricultural components that augmented the Department's/
Bureau's regular budget for operations.
2.8       On the other hand, the weaknesses of the project's design were as
follows: (a) no provision was made for a pre-implementation phase, particularly
for the infrastructure and procurement components, for the establishment of the
PRO and for the development of DA capability to handle the implementation of a
huge project; (b) the limited experience of DA staff in managing implementation
of a project of this magnitude was not taken into account; (c) the Philippine
G3vernment's ability to provide enough funds at the right time for the enormous
project cost was not considered; (d) the project's approval and effectivity date
did not coincide with the Philippine budget preparation timetable; and (e) no
provision for project phase out to insure sustainability after termination was
made.
Oblectives and Components
2.9       Obiectives. The project was originally planned to be implemented over
a period of six years beginning fourth quarter of 1981 with the following
objectives:
(a)  to strengthen the agricultural research capabilities of the DA. the
Institute of Plant Breeding (IPB) and the Department of Agronomy of
UPLB. as well as to provide research funds for technology generation
to the Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research and
Development (PCARRD);
(b) to strengthen the applied agricultural research and experimental
capabilities of the Department;



- 23 -
(c)  to strengthen the new regional offices of the DA by upgrading nine
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research System (RIARS) Stations;
(d)  to strengthen the DA staff in all regions and bureaus, who are
responsible for regulatory matters affecting crops and livestock;
(e) to strengthen DA Central Office capabilities in planning, project
preparation, implementation, management and monitoring; and
(f) to provide support to the Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI)
for the conduct of a second national nutrition survey.
2.10      Components.  To achieve the above-mentioned objectives, the following
project components and subcomponents (24) were identified:
(a) Research and Field Trials: (i) Upgrading and operationalization of
research facilities in nine locations to serve as RIARS; (ii) funding
of research projects aimed at resolving problems confronting FNU
priority commodities; (iii) setting up and implementation of a
nationwide cropping systems trials program; (iv) development and
provision of equipment and facilities for the Institute of Plant
Breeding to expand its breeding and foundation seed production
programs; and (v) establishment and operationalization of the
Agricultural Research Office within the DA.
(b) Reaulatorv Services and Input SuDply: Development and provision of
equipment and facilities, funding support for operatiox; and manpower
training for the following DA operations:
- Plant Quarantine;
- Plant certification and production of disease-free planting
material;
- Seed certification and storage;
- Pesticide residue analysis, commodity classification and
grading;
- Feeds analysis;
- Soils analysis;
- Livestock quarantine;
- Livestock disease diagnosis;
- Veterinary assistance and livestock dispersal;
- Livestock vaccine quality control; and
- Livestock vaccine production (in collaboration with private
sector).
(c)  Statistics. Plannint and Management of the Project:  (i) Strengthening
of the capacity of the Bureau of Agricultural Statistics (BAS') to
collect, analyze and interpret agricultural sector statistics;
(ii) consolidation and expansion of the Department of Agriculture's
planning capabilities; and (iii) establishment and activation of a
Project Management Office.



- 24 -
(d) Training: Establishment of a Central Training Unit in the Department
of Agriculture.
Project Cost
2.11      The total cost of the project was estimated at US$77.0 million and
US$45.0 million or 58 percent of the cost would be financed with a loan from the
World Bank.
III. Proiect Restructuring
1984 Restructurina
3.1       In October 1984. the Government of the Philippines (GOP) and the World
Bank (WB) agreed to restructure the ASSP due to a number of reasons presented in
detail in para. 4.2. With the submission of the approved DA staffing plan to the
WB, the restructuring of ASSP was approved in December 1985. The original total
project cost of US$77.0 million was reduced to US$52.0 million with the loan
amount pruned to US$30.0 million.
3.2       Revised Components.   Despite this restructuring,  the underlying
concept and objectives of the ASSP were still accepted as valid.   However,
components had to be revised to attune the project to the prevailing situation
and adopt the changed government strategies.   The revised components are
described below:
(a) Aaricultural Sarvices Delivery System
(i)  Implementation of the Extension Delivers Systems (EDS).  The EDS
would provide for the nationwide implementation of the modified
Training and Visit (T&V) system as the extension methodology.
Twelve provinces would be selected (one for each region) for a
province-wide implementation of the system to serve as model EDS
areas,   involving   about   3,000   Agricultural   Production
Technologists (APTs) , 300 Municipal Agricultural Officers (MA0o)
and 15 Subject Matter Specialists (SMS). The previous livestock
field services subcomponent was fully integrated into the EDS.
(ii)  Communication Equipment.   Included in this revision was the
purchase and installation of radio transmitting and receiving
equipment for inter-office communications. This component was
taken over by ASSP after the termination of NEP in 1985.
(iii)  ADolied Communication.  This component was to provide support to
the information dissemination activities of the 7A by designing
appropriate communication strategies to promote the diffusion and
utilization of identified packages of technology, and t-



- 25 -
developing and producing instructional materials consistent with
these  strategies.    The project  revision now  included  the
following:
-  The  communication  strategies  which  would  utilize  the
communication resources of regional offices and their
extension workers and information officers;
-  Provision of funds for the construction of the audio-visual
building at ATI and its incremental operating costs; and
-  The preparation of visual aids and publication of prototypes
to be done in cooperation with PCARRD.
(b)  Anglied Research and DeveloDment
(i) IARS and Technologv Verification. Consistent with the original
aim of the ASSP to strengthen the research and experimental
capabilities of the DA, each region was to be provided with a
well-equipped research station for technology verification to be
carried out by DA staff for technologies suitable for local
application. The RIARS was envisioned to provide the core staff
for managing the Department's on-farm verification trials
program. All DA research stations within a region were to act as
satellites of the RIARS station.
(ii) Technoloav Generation and Small Farm Systems. Funding sulpport tc
the PCARRD to initiate research with associated institutions
directly related to the implementation of the DA's priority
programs was continued. The Farming Systems and Soils Resourcss
Institute (FSSRI) would also continue to be supported by the
project in order to expand its role in identifying potential
improvements in farming systems and in assisting in the planning,
design and evaluation of on-farm trials conducted by RIARS-based
staff.
(iii)  Plant Breedint.  The revision included measures to upgrade the
facilities of the Institute of Plant Breeding at UPLB through
construction of facilities and provision of equipment.
(c)  Auxiliary Services
In pursuit of the original objective of upgrading the DA capacity both
at national and regional levtels in carrying out its regulatory
functions, and in order to enhance laboratory services supportive of
research  and  field  operations,  the  project  intensified  the
implementation of the sub-components for plant and livestock
regulatory services with the addition of the construction of a central
soils laboratory and the provision of equipment and funding of
incremental operating costs. The project aimed to expand the capacity
of the Bureau of Soils in completing land evaluation studies for all



- 26 -
priority development sites listed by NEDA.   It also assisted the
Bureau in identifying the magnitude of soil erosion problems and
possible remedial measures and in preparing a National Soil
Conservation Program.
(d)  Manaaemrent Svstems
This component aimed at strengthenin3 the DA's capability to plan the
program for the agricultural sector and manage the programs and
projects for which it was responsible through the following support
measures;
(i)  Data Development.  Under the project, the BAS would continue to
implement the Regional Agricultural Data Delivery System (RADDS)
and the DA Integrated Management Information System (DAIMIS)
throughout the country. The RADDS/DAIMIS, as originally planned.
aimed at generating data and information on agriculture at the
municipal, provincial and regional levels, particularly on the
following: (a) socioeconomic status of population; (b) nutrition
profile and the conduct of the third National Nutrition Survey;
(c) area and production for palay and corn; (d) livestock and
poultry estimates; and (e) estimates for other crops. Additional
equipment were provided to the BAS to facilitate fast processing
of survey returns for the RADDS/DAIMIS.
(ii)  Proiect Preparation.  Through this subcomponent, the DA received
some assistance in the formulation of agricultural projects which
could qualify for foreign assistance.
(iii)  Project ImDlementation.   The Project Management Office (PMO)
retained the responsibility for coordinating and monitoring
support to the various components including the Agricultural
Research Office (ARO). The PMO also retained its functions of
budgeting and documenting the DA-implemented components and
liaising with the Committee on Bids and Specifications (CBS) for
procurement. Under the direct supervision of the PNO were the
training, food and nutrition, agribusiness, consultancy and
transportation components.   Through the Food and Nutrition
component, studies and workshops to implement the Food and
Nutrition Plan were continued. particularly those that aimed at
determining the measures to enhance the nutrition of families in
depressed areas.   Consultancy services were also provided to
regional offices to improve their planning capabilities.  The
agribusiness component provided support to the regional
agribusiness councils which were tasked with the responsibility
of   identifying   agribusiness   opportunities,   encouraging
investments, and facilitating an exchange of information between
producers and markets. Lastly, a training fund continued to be
provided for degree and non-degree programs, particularly those



- 27 -
which had a direct bearing on the serviceos assisted by the
project.
1987 RestructurinR
3.3       In 1987 anotbhr restructuring was implemented in response to the new
thrusts and needs in the development of the agricultural sector, which included
decentralization of planning, training, project identification and packaging; the
need to strengthen the capabilities of field personnel through grassroots level
projects and activities; the need to address the actual requirements of each
Regional Office to have better control of field situations and problems; and the
need to provide necessary support to field personnel to handle farmers' request
for assistance for financing high-impact micro-projects.
3.4       New/Additional  ComDonents.    The  above  conditions  led  to  the
identification of ASSP's new components for implementation beginning 1988:
(a) Proiect PreDaration Fund. The 12 regions were provided funds as well
as   technical   and   administrative   support   for   institutional
strengthening in the planning, implementation and packaging of
projects.   Basically,  the project initiated the decentralization
process by giving the region the capability to work with minimum
supervision from the Central Office.
(b)  Tribal Agricultural SuiRort Services Program.  This component was
implemented in eight regions.  It was characterized by grassroots
micro projects for tribal farmers in the upland, a new frontier for
DA. This component addressed the request of Tribal Upland Farmers
and, at the same time, served as a hands-on training for DA field
personnel.
(c)  Philivoine Rubber Development Project.   This component aimed at
augmenting and sustaining the income of rubber farmers, especially the
smallholders, by providing both DA frontline staff and rubber farmers
with additional technical capability for rubber development by
establishing clonal trials and pilot dtmonetration farms as show-
windows for new rubber technologies.
(d) Crogwatch Proiect. This project was implemented on a pilot scale in
Region 2 with the aim of operationalizing a simulation model for
palay/rice and corn in the area.
(e)  Sugar ComDonent.  ihis component supplemented the budget of the Sugar
Regulatory Administration (SRA) in implementing its Agricultural
Research  and  Development  Projects.       Major  activities  werf
(i) research in agronomy, plant protection. sugarcane breeding and
genetics, soils, and plant nutrition; (ii) field demonstration and
various extension activities in TG; (iii) training and personnel
development; and (iv) repair and maintenance of vehicles, research
facilities and laboratory equipment.



- 28 -
(f) National Post-Harvest Institute for Research and Extension (NAPHIRE).
This  component  had  three major  subcomponents  namely:    (i) the
integration of post-harvest technology with agricultural extension
services aimed at creating awareness of post production problems.
issues, innovations and technologies among agricultural extension
workers. Three batches of training/orientation courses were provided
to 74 municipalities in 13 provinces in Regions 1. 2 and 3; (il) the
Mass Media Reproduction Project was concerned with the preparation of
print and video information materials regarding NAPHIRE mature
technologies; and (iii) the adoption and utilization of the NAPHIRE
improved corn sheller in Region 2 aimed to increase the corn farmers'
income through an effective and efficient corn shelling operation in
Cagayan Valley as the pilot site.
(g) Ramie Research and DeveloRment Proiect. This project was identified
to support the Fiber Industry Development Authority (FIDA) ramie
research and development activities. There were four sub-components.
namely:  (i) crop research; (ii) fiber technology and utilization;
(iii) planning and statistics; and (iv) marketing.
(h)  Regional Intetrated Aaricultural Research Slstem (RIARS) Sub-stations.
The establishment of two RIARS sub-stations, one in Kia.gan. Ifugao
and another in Puerto Princesa, Palawan was made part of the revised
ASSP. The construction of the Kiangan RIARS had to be shelved on
account of the 1990 earthquake which devastated Northern Luzon.
Access to the site remains difficult and would render any construction
activities impossible.
(i)  Support to Foreian-Assisted Proiects Office (FAPO).   Support was
extended to FAPO for coordinating all foreign-assisted projets of the
DA and conducting feasibility studies.



- 29 _
trab I t 1 CHAMNOS IN ASSP STRUCTUtE
Project Preparation Report      Staff Appraisal Report          Aide *oioire on ASSP            Aid* Memoirs After VD           Aid, Memoir. After WO
Feb. 1990. PC * Uat70.04 N      tSAR) - June 1981               Restructuring - Nov. 1984,     Reviow - June 1906.             Review - Nov-ec. 1987.
PC * Us77.06 N                  PC - USS2.0 N                  PC - USU52.0 N                  PC - USJ44.0 M and after
cancellatIon ini Sept.
1900, PC - U5842.6M
I. RESEARCH * FIELD TRIALS       .  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH       I.    AO. SSWEICES               .    AO. SRICES                 I.    AO. SERVICES
1. RIARS (Regions)              1. Tech. Oenration                 O&frELY SYSTE                   OELrVERY SYSTSl                 OLIVERY SYSTEMS
2. Tech. Generatlon                 (PCARRD)                   1. Zapl*sentaolon of            1. tmplementation of             1. Iple.ontation of
(PCARtD)                    2. Tech. verification              EDS                             EDS                             EOS
3. Reeearch-eateneion               (ARC)                      -  Rural Extension              -  Rural Extension               -  Rural Extension
Linkage CARO)                8. RIARS (Regiona)                Center. (REC)                   Center. RIEC)                   Centere (REC)
4. Plant Breeding               4. Applied                     -  Livestock Field              -  Livestock Field               -  Liveetock Field
(MPe)                           CoNeunicatlon                  Services (BA)                  Services (BA!)                  Service. (BAX)
(PCARRD)                   2. CommunicatIon                -  Crop Erten-ion               2. ComunicatIon
S. Plant Breedine                 Equipment (At?)                 (ATI!  R-g.$)                   Equipment (ATI)
(IPB, UPtLB)               3. Applied                      -  Pilot Village                3. AppiIed Com_nunico-
6. Small Fare.                    Comunication                    Development (ATt.               tion (ATI 4 PCARRD)
System  (FSSRIX                (PCAFR)                         Region 6)
UPLB)                                                      2. Communication
Equipment (ATI)
S. Applied Communica-
tion (PCARRD)
I. SOIL SLRVEY AND              U. REauLATORr SERVICES          I. ARIC. RESEARCH               II. ARIC. RESEARCH              t. ARIC. RESEARCH
CLASSIFICATION              Plant Regulatory Services           a oEVULePmwt                    a oeVOPm rT                      a OEVOPmeht
1. Soil Survey and              1. Commodity Analysis           1. RIARS and Technol-           1. RIARS and Technol-            1. RLARS and Technol-
Land Evaluation                 (BPI)                           ogy Verification                ogy Verification                 ogy Verification
(as)                        2. Plant Certification              (Region)                        (Region)                         (Reglon)
2. National Soil                    (BPI)                       2. R-ch. Ceneration A           2. Tech. CGneration *           2. Tech. Generation
Conservation                 3. Plant Quarantine                Small Farm Sy-tem.              Smll Form Systems                (BAR)
Program  (OS)                   (BPI)                           (PCARRD/FSSRI)                   (PCARRD/FSSRI)              3. Small Fare Systems
Livestock Regulatory Serv.         3. Plant Breeding               3. Plant Breeding                   (FSSRI)
1. Foed Analysis (BA!)             (IPB. UPLS)                     (IPB. UPL)                   4. Plant Breeding
2. Liv-a ock                                                                                        (IPB. UPLB)
Quarantine (BA!)
3. Livetock Field
Service. (BAI)
4. Dioss.- Diagnomi-
(BAX)
S. Vaccine Production
(BAI)
6. Vaccine Quslity
Control (BA!)
tIT. REOULATORY SERVICES        III. AGRIClLTURAL               1I. AUXILIARY SERVrCES         II!. AUXILIARY SRVICES           I. AUXILIARY SERVICES
a INPUT SUPPLY                  PLAM4INO                      1. Commodity Analysis           1. Commodity Analysis           1. Commodity Analysis
1. Plant Quarantine             1. Project Preperation             (BPI)                            (BPI)                           (BPI)
(aPt)                           Servic  (APPU)              2. Plant Certification           2. Plant CerCtification         2. Plant Certificatiob
2. Plant Certification          2. Date development                 (BPI)                           (BPI)                           (BPI)
(BPI)                           (BAScon)                     3. Plant Quarantine            3S  Plant Quarantine             S. Plant Quarantine
S. Seed Production A            3. National Nutrition               (BPI)                           (UPI)                           (BPI)
Certification (BPI)             Survoy (FNRI)                4. Feed Analysis (BA!)          4. Foed Analymie (BA!)          4. Feed Analysis (BA!)
4. UP! Central                                                  S. Livestock                    S. LiveatocR                    S. Liveotock
Laboratory (BPI)                                                Quarantine (BA!)                Quarantine (BA!)                 Quarantine (BAI)
S. bS Laboratory                                                S. Dimasa. Diagnosis            6. Diaoame Diagnosis             S. Dioeaee Diagnosis
Service. (US)                                                   (BAI)                           (BAI)                            (BA!)
6. bA! Central Feed                                             7. Vaccine Production           7. Vaccine Production            7. Vaccine Production
Lab. (BA!)                                                      (BA!)                           (BA!)                            (BA!)
7. Integrated Regional                                          8. Vaccine Quality              8. Vaccina Quality               8. Vaccine Quality
Lab. (REa)                                                      Control (BAI)                   Control (BAI)                   Control (BAI)
S. Vat. Diagnoetic                                              9. So;1- Lab. Service.           9. Soile Lab. Service.          9. Soil- Lab. Services
Lab. (BAI)                                                       (OS)                            (US)                            (BEAN)
O. Livetock Field
Service. (BA!)
10.  Vaccine Quality
Control (bA!)
1.  Animal Vaccine
Production (bAI)



- 30 -
Project Preparation Report       Staff Appraloal Report           Aide iesore on AS5P               Aide Mewoirs After dO            Aide Meolre After WS
Feb. 1990. PC - US870.04 M       (OAR)   June 1981,               Restructuring - Nov. 1984,        Review - June 198',              Review - Nov-Oec. 1987.
PC a Ui77.0ii t      i           PC - USU52.0 M                   PC a iAJt2.0 N                    PC * iJS144.0 M and after
cancel lation in Sept.
1990, PC * iW142.6 M
IV. STATtSTtCS. MANNINO A        IV.  1L,1ATSlN                    IV. iNAGEMENT SBtVICS             V. MAtVAC4Ei  SEVICES           IV. MANACM5tV SERVICES
PWCJECT MANAOET                 1. Administration                 1. Dsat. iev.                       Dost Dev. A                   1. Data Dev. A
1. Agricultural                      (Pi4)                            Computer Services                Coeputer Services                 Computer Services
Stetistics (SAEon)            2. Traneportetion                    (Acon)                           (OA6con)                          (SAlEon)
2. Aericultural                      (PHt)                        2. Restructured Plan-             2. Project Preparation           2. ProJect Prepeartion
Planning tIntitute            8. Reearch (ARC)                     ning Service                     Service (APPU)                   Service (SCC)
3. Project NanaeeAAnt            4. Ped and Nutrition                 (Planning Service)            8. Project 2aplewente-           8. ProJect Implementa-
(Planning Service)           -  Policy Analysie A                 tion                              tion
S. Agribueinee                      Formulation                       - Administration                 - Adainistration
(Planning Service)           -  Plane A Proorfm                     (PMO)                            (PMO)
6. Training (PM0)                   Formulation                       - Training (PM4)                 - Iraining (PMO)
-  iod A Nutrition                  - Raoaerch (ARO)                  - Research (ARO)
-  Project Prepare-                  - Pood A Nutrition               - Feed A Nutrition
tion. Monitoring A                 (P1M)                             (PM)
Evaluation                       - Agribusiness                   - Agribusinses
-  Agribusinese Dev.                   (P14O)                           (PMO)
3. Pield Operations                  - Transportation                 - Transportstion
service (ARO)                      (P14O)                           (P14)
4. Foreign Assiated                  - Coneultancy Serv.              - Conaultency Serv.
Projects Unit                4. National Nutrition             4. National Nutrition
-  Project Preperation              Survey (NRt)                      Survey (FNRI)
(APPU)
- Project IplaeInta-
tion (PO)
- Ad-inietration
_ Training
- Transportation
Conultency Serv.
V.    TRAfrNDIC                                                                                                                      V.    Ni! COPNEIrS
1. RIARS Sub-Station
(Palawan a Ifugao)
(Region)
2. Cropoatch (PO)
8. Tribal Agriculture
($CO)
4. Rubber D0.. Project
(SCO)
5. Project Preparation
(Regional
ceontifiestion (REG
a POW)
6. Foreign A"ieted
Projects Office
(FAPO/IADCCO)
7. Sugar Reaearch A
Dev. (SRA)
S. Ramie Research A
Dev. (PtIA)
9. Poet-harvest
Re"aerch A Dov.
CNAPF2RE)i



- 31 -
IV. Im)Lementation
Start-up
4.1       Like most foreign-assisted projects, the ASSP faced a number of
difficulties during its start-up. Aside from the usual delays and the limited
provision of funding during the initial stages of the project, the difficulties
encountered could be attributed to the unfamiliarity of most project staff and
DA personnel with the systems and procedures governing foreign-assisted projects.
However, as the Project Management staff gained more experience and expertise.
and as appropriate project management and financial systems and procedures were
set-up, these problems of implementation were reduced. The problems includeds
(a) Limited Funding. At its inception, the ASSP was faced with limited
and delayed funding. The loan agreement was signed at a time when the
budget for the succeeding year (1982) had already been approved and
thus the project had to depend on the limited lump sum appropriation
for foreign assisted projects.
(b) World Bank Procedures. Project start-up was considerably slowed down
by the unfamiliarity of project staff with World Bank procedures. The
staff had to resort to informal consultation with other ongoing World
Bank projects of other agencies.
(c)  judaet  and Personnel.   DA contractual staff involved in other
activities were utilized in the implementation of the start-up
activities of the project while waiting for the a. coval by DBE of the
budget and personnel positions for ASSP.
(d) Monitoring. The design and installation of the monitoring system was
contracted out by the DA and was implemented only in the third year
of the project.
Revisions
4.2       First Restructuring.  In October 1984. the Government and World Bank
agreed to restructure the project for the following reasons:
(a) Currency Devaluation. Foremost among the reasons was the progressive
devaluation of the peso (from P 7.50 - $1.00 at the time of appraisal
to P 20.00 - $1.00 in October 1984) which bloated in peso terms the
budget of various components.
(b) Disbursement Delavy. Disbursements of project funds were delayed from
the project start due to non-inclusion of the project budget in the
1982 General Appropriations Act and insufficient fund In the lump sum
appropriation for foreign assisted projects.



- 32 -
(c)  Organizational Uncertainties.  Delays in finalizing the DA staffing
plan contributed to job insecurity and morale problems among DA staff
especially in the regional offices. thus affecting project outputs.
(d)  Comoletion of the National Extension Proiect (NEP).  Following the
June 30, 1985 loan closing date of NEP, the restructured ASSP
incorporated extension related components to complete the remaining
important programs initiated by REP. Among these vas the continuation
of the procurement of communications equipment.
(e) Chantes in the Macroeconomic Environment. The project was formulated
and appraised during a relatively blissful economic situation. This
situation had somehow deteriorated necessitating a reassessment of the
relevance of the goal and components of ASSP.
4.3       Taking into account the Government's call to reduce loan amounts of
foreign-assisted projects, whenever possible, to a level which can be supported
by the necessary counterpart funding, the project cost was scaled down from the
original amount of US$77.0 million to $52.0 million. Of this new amount, $30.0
million constituted the loan while $22.0 million represented the GOP counterpart
(para. 3.1).
4.4       Second Restructuring.  Because of the operational issues associated
with the change in administration in 1986 and further devaluation of the peso,
an additional $8.0 million was canceled from the revised loan amount of $30.0
million. Despite reduction in loan amount, new components were added to the
project (para. 3.4 and Table 1). This second restructuring increased the number
of ASSP components from the original 24 to 35. Since it became clear that all
civil works could not be completed and all equipment could not be procured and
delivered by the original loan closing date of December 31. 1988, the closing
date was extended for a total of two years to December 31, 1990 with final
disbursement allowed up to April 30. 1991.
Overall Accomnlishments and Problems Encountered
4.5       Overall Accomnlisbments.  Presented  in Table 2 are the overall
accomplishments of ASSP classified according to its six major categories and its
35 subcomponents. The accomplishments are classified into the number of studies/
research endeavors conducted, extension materials produced and distributed,
facilities constructed/renovated, staff trained, equipment/vehicles procured and
the services provided. Table 2 also indicates the implementing agency/office and
the start of implementation per subcomponent.



_ 33 -
Table 2: OVERALL ACCONFLISHMENT OF ASSP BY MAJOR CATEGORY AN SICOWONENT AND IPLEENTING AGENCY/OFFICE
(1981-1990)
Period of
Components            Inplementing    Implemntatlon                        Accomplishennt
Agency          (Year)
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
DELIVERY SYSTEM (ASOS)
1. Inplementatlon of          Agricultural       1985-1988               21  TraIning/orkshops conducted/coordinated
Extension Delivery System    Trainig                                 33  Regional Extenslon Centers (RECs) established
(IEDS)                    institute (ATI)                            25  Equlpment requisitioned and recelved
1 Vehicle requlsitloned and received
2. Llvestock Field Services   Bureau of Animal   1981-1988           48,070  Heads of cattle and carabao artificlally bred
(LFS)                     indstry (BAI)                         393,024  Heads of swine artificlally bred
94,184 Doses of bull semen produced
27 Trainlig sessions conducted
30,028  Heads of cattle and carabao dispersed
20,628,944  Heads of animals vaccinated (Cattle, carabao, swine
and poultry)
134 Vehicles requlsitloned and received
221   Equlpment requlsitlond and received
3. Comnnicatlon Equlpment     ATI                1985-1988              301  Telsomuicatlon equipment requlsitloned and received
4. Applied Counuication       Phil. Comzil on    1981-1988                1  Audio vsual studlo constructed at ATI. Instructional
(AC)                      Agricultural                                    materlals on corn diseases and rat control produced
Resources                                  66  Other extension related Instructlonal materials
Research and                                   produced. Book entitled lliting Broadcast Materials'
Development                                    produced. Tape exchnged between farmcaster and
(PCARRD) and                                   ASSP-AC RROP-ASSP-AC techno transfer Implemented In
ATI                                            Reglon VI.
12  Regions trained on Applied Commuiicatlon
71 Equlpment requisitioned and recelved
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT (ARD)
5. Reglonal Integrated        Regional Offices    1981-1988              12  RIARS Stations constructed at ore per region
Agricultural Research                                                72  Agromet Statios completed at 1 per province
Statlon (RIARS)/                                                     78  Outreach sites of 1 PTVT created
Technology Verification                                            1,537  Adaptation of tectmobgles
1,245  Verification of tedhlogblss
232  Trials on Integrated crop-anlAalflshery prodctlon
developed
217 Barangay plot productlen prWoams developed
730  Equipment requlsitned and roeived
24 Vehicles requisitioned and reoeved



_ 34
Period of
Components            Implementing    Implementation                        Accomplishment
Agency          (Year)
6. Techriology Generation     PCARRD             1981-1988               334  Studles supported
(TG)                                                                 102  Equipment requisitloned and received
7. Small Farms Systems        Farming Systems    1981-1988                58  Studies on Farming Systems (FS) completed
(SFS)                     and Soil                                    34  Tralning and workshops on FS coordinated
Resources
Institute                                       Documented/published:
(FSSRI) - WLPB                                  6 Monographs
2 Sourcebooks
Newsletters
FS Dlgest
Slides
Developed the Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) as a
methodology of assessing potentials of farming
communltles
Established llinkage with RIARS to facilitate
development and testing of tecivologies with the
PTVTs
institutlonalized Its operations of research teams to
address 4 agro-ecological zones of the country
Supported the program on agrotechnology transfer and
the writing of the book - 'introduction to the
Elements for Agrotechtology Transfer"
447 Laboratory equilpment requisitioned and received
6 Vehicles requisitlioned and received
8. Plant Breeding (PB)         Institute of      1981-1988                16  Full Ph.D. scholarships granted
Plant Breeding
(IPB)                                       1  National Seed Foundation (NSF) building constructed
1 Cold Storage facillcy for NSF constructed
Constructed the following civil works:
- Water system for Irrlgation and human consumption
- Roads and sites development
- Screen cages and screenhouses
- Fuel station and canteen
- Storage facilities for chemicals and fertilizers
- Outside power distribution system
Natlonal Crop Production Program supported
510 Equipment requisitloned and recelved
18 Vehicles requisitioned and received



- 35 -
Period of
Components            Impleumnting    Iuuuntation                          Accompilshment
Agn             (Year)
Ill. AUXILIARY SEVICES (AS)
9. Coinodlty Analysis (CA)    Bureau of Plant    1981-1988           23,209  Physical, chemical and microblological analyses of
Industry (BPI)                                 agricultural plants and by-products urdertaken
1 Comuodity Analysis Administrative and Laboratory
Building constructed
1 Vehicle requisitloned and received
46 Laboratory equlpment procured
10. Piant Certification (PC)  Bureau of Plant    1981-1988            3,154  Candidate parent trees surveyed and evalated
dhstry (BPI)                          112,589  Rootstock seedlgs for asexai production produced
and maintained
98,960 Ouallty plant materials generated
13,000   ndicator plants reared and malntained
24  Fouidatlon nurseries and groves established and
malntaned
24  Nursery nspection services conwcxted
16 Staff from varlous reglons provided on-the-Job
trainig at LPLB
3 Plant Material CertIfication StatIons constructed In
Ulpa City-Batangas, Bago Oshiro-avao and Ubay-Bohol
69  Equiment reqJisitloned and received
8 Vehicies requisitloned and received
11. Plant Qarantine (PO)      Bureau of Plant    1981-1988               52  Plant Oiarantine Off lcer trained
hlstry (BPI)                               7  Regional PO Stations constructed
I  Regional PO Statlon LWaded
1  Central Post-entry Ouarantine Statlon at Economic
Garden, Los Banos, Lagw,a constructed
117  hpwted plants and plant prodckte monitored and
hspected
186 GermPlasm exchange wlth IRRI, [PB, LFPLB, CARGILL,
PIONEER and SAN MIGUEL monitored
12 Regional PO statIons' activitles monitored, 431,258
pos. of plants and 239,050,115,636 kgs. of plant
prodcts subjeoted to treatment and patholgical
studles
39,469 Phytosanltary certificates issued
234  EqulPment repiisitioned and received
6  Vehicles requlstltoned and received
12. Foed Analysis (FA)        Bau of Anial    1981-1988                   7  Reglonal Feed Laboratories renovated
kWstry (BAI)                                1  Central Feed Laboratory renovated
Staff traned h Feed Analysis
195 Various scientific and offIce equlPment reqilsitloned
and received



- 36 -
Perlod of
Components            iIilementing    Implementatlon                         AccomPlishment
.gency          (Year)
13. Livestock Quarantine       Bureau of Animal   1981-1988                30  Local In-house tralning conducted
(L)                       Industry (BAI)                               1  Central Vet. Regulatory Service Office constructed
11  Reglonal Quarantine Offices constructed/renovated
37,939 Heads of animals quarantined
15,468  export shlppig permits Issued
6,233 Import shipping permits Issued
20,230 shipping permits Issv.d for local shipments
28,627 samples used for Serological Test Survey
69,569   Prophylaxis and treat    conducted
170 Equlpment requisitionra aid received
5  Vehicles requisitloned and received
14. Livestock Disease          Bureau of Animal   1981-1988                11  Regional Livestock Olseass Dlagrostic Center
Olagiosis (LO)            Industry (BAI)                                    constructed/renovated
1 Central Diagnostic Veterlnary Laboratory at Quezon
City renovated
9  Vehicles requisitloned and received
529  Varlous office and scientific equlpment requisitloned
ard received
15. Vaccine Productlon (VP)    Bureau of Animal   1981-1988              300%  Increase in the productlon of Hemorrhagic Septicemia,
hdustry (BAI)                                    New Castle Disease and Hog Cholera vaccines
1  Vaccine productlon laboratory building constructed
311   Mew laboratory facilities, office and scientific
equipment requisitloned and received
1 Vehicle requlsItioned and recelved
16. Vaccine Quality Control    Bureau of Animal   1981-1988                 1  Vaccie Quallty Control building renovated
(VOC)                      Industry (BAI)                                1  Animal house constructed
500  Batches of vaccine produced per year
147  Various sclentific and office equlpment requisitioned
and received
1  Vehict rqulsitloned and received
17. Soils Laboratory Services    Bureau of Soils  1985-1988               478  Soil and water samples determined for trace elements
(SLS)                      and Water                                  286  Water samples analyzed for irrigatlon suitability
menagement                               2,754   Soil samples analyzed for physical and chemical
(85M)                                            chracteristics
1,839  Packets of soil produced
878 Samples of fertilizer, plant tissues and soil analyzed
for nitrogen, phosphorous and potasslum content
8,000  Soll Test Kits refilled with chemicals
7 Regional Land Resources Benchnark data developed
(for Reglons 1, 2, 6, 7, 10, 11 and 13)
8 Equlpment requlsitloned and recelved
1 Vehicle requisitloned and received



_ 37 -
Period of
comPonents             leplementing    Imleamntation                         Accompllslwent
Agncy           (Year)
IV. MAXAGEJENT SYSTEMS (MS)
18. Data Development (WD)      Bureau of          1981-1988                10  Regions operatlonalized the Regional Agricultural Data
Agricultural                                     Collection and Delivery Systems (RADDS).
Statistics                                       Management Information System (MIS) developed
(BAS)                                            Data collectlon and statistical analysis methodology
upgraded
464 Various equlPment requisitioned and received
152  Vehicles reouisitioned and reeeived
16 Units of computers requlsltloned and received
19. Project Preparation and    Dept. of           1981-1988                22  Projects prepared:
Moitoring (PPM)            Agriculture,                                      4 ProJects being Implemented (CECAP, HADP, PUSP,
SPelalSP)
Concers Office                                   1 Project uider pre-lIplementation (SPIADP)
(DA-SCO)                                         3 Projects for Implementation In 1991
14 Projects at various stages of project development
4 Equilpment reqjlsitloned and recelved
I Vehicle requisitloned and received
20. Project Management         DA-ASSP            1381-1988                  1  Monitorlng & Evaluation System estabilshed
Off ice (PMO)                                                            1  DA StaffIng pattern (first version) prepared
Quarterly and Annual, Physlcal and Financlal Reports
made
169  Infrastructure projects facilitated and coordinated
5,258 Equlpment procured
21. Central Training Unit      DA-ASSP            1981-1988              3,258  DA staff provided training:
(CMU)
DEGREE COWRSES:            NON-DEGRE COlRSES:
3 Ph.D.                  132 Forelgn
15 Ph.D.                  261 Local
20 M.S.                 2,538 In-house
52 M.S. local
239 Diploma
1 Polley foriulated (Rules & Ra;ations Governing ASSP
Scholarship/Tralning Grants)
Created a natlonal farm statlon organizatlon
"DA-Farm Station Managers/Smperintendents
Assoclatlon of the Phils." (DA-FSAAP)
32  Equlpment requisitloned and received
1 Vehicle reqalsitioned and received



- 38 -
Perlod of
Coponents             Pmplemitdig       Im fetatlon                        Accompllshnent
Agency          (Year)
22. Agricultural Research     ARO                1981-1988               18  Forelgn assisted research projects coordinated and
Office (ARO)                                                              monitored
22 Ouarterly dialogues conducted
9 Seml-annual dlalogues wndcrKted
62 Reglonal research reviews conducted
7 DA-IRRI semi-amual conference onwdted
1  National research symroslu conducted
538  Persomel attended local no-degree tralning
113 In-house training coadcted
49 Equlpment requlsitloned and recelved
1 Vehicle requisitloned and recelved
23. Food and Nutritlon (FN)   DA-ASSP            1981-1988                3  Natlonal level training conrkicted on Integrated
Nutritlon Consideratlons In Agriculture and Rural
Development Plans/Projects (IW.ARDP)
11  Reglonal echo tralning conducted on INCARDP
12 Pilot projects Initiated to test new approaches In
addressing malnutrition problems
15 EqulPment requlsitloned and recelved
24. Agribusiness              DA-ASSP            1981-1988               12  Regional Agribusiness Councils established.
Created an Agribusiness Project Management
Organization (APMO)
1 Natlonal APMO convention cndicted
8  Equlpmnt requlsitloned and recelved
1 Vehicle requisitioned and recelved
25. Consultancy               DA-ASSP            1981-1988               15  Local cnsultants hired
3 Forelgn consultants hired
26. National Nutritilon Survey    Food and       1981-1988                2  National Nutritlon Survey conducted
(NNS)                     Nutrion                                    110  EqulPment requlsitioned and received
Research                                    2  Vehicles requisitioned and recelved
Instlue (FNRI)
V. NEW COMPONENTS
27. RIARS Sub-station         Reglonal OffIce    1988                     1  Substatlon constructed In Palawan
28. Sugar Research and        Sugar              1988                         War technicians trained.
Develoment (SRD)          Regulatory                                      Research on improved yield of sugar conducted.
Admininstration                                Local and forelgn training for persomel conducted.
(SRA)                                          Sugar training manuals prepared.
Hlgh yieldng varlety planting materials distrbuted
1 Equlpment requlsitloned and received



- 39 _
Perlod of
Ca ponents                             Perlino of bpl  wtatlcn             Accomplishment
Agency          (Year)
29. Forelgn Assisted Project    DA-FAPO          1988                     5  FeasibIlity studles contracted out.
Offie (FAPO)                                                              Coordinated all foreigt-assisted projects of the DA
30. Ramie Research and        Fber ndstry        1988                         Research and development studies conducted regardin
Deveopment (RRD)          Development                                     ramie instry and techiology with the following
Authority (FIDA)                               percentage of accoMrllshent:
32% - Crop research
25% - Fiber Technology Utilization
50% - Plarnilng and Statistics
50% - Marketing
2 Equlpmcnt requlsitloned and received
31. Post-Harvest Research     National Post-     1988                     3  Batches of seminars/echo sminars for MAos
and Developent (PHPD)     Harvest                                         conucted.
Institute for                              3  TechnIcal bulletins ptilished
Research and                                1  Video tape of the new moproved com sheller produce
Bxtesion                                8,500  Copies of Information materials prodUed and
(NAPHIRE)                                      distributed
5  Lauichig programs on the use of Com Sheller
conrcted
32. Cropwatch                 DA-ASSP            1988                     1  Pilot cropwatch system hrpivented In Region 11
23  Seminars/workshops for biplementors condckted
5 Set of coaPuter requlsitlbred and recelved
33. Project Deveopment and    DA-SCO             1988                    12  Regional plamn  utits assisted on project
Evaluation (POE)          DA-Planning Unlt                                davelopment
Farmers and techniclans trained on various upland
tedYilogies
34. Tribal Agriculture (TA)   DA-SCO             1988-1989               58  Sltes In 8 Reglons (I. 11, Ill, IV, V. X, Xl and XII)
idlntifled for assistanc
370  TrIbal farmers trained on upland technology
530 Tribal farmers trained on Cooperatives and proJect
development
31,000  Pleces of finWrlns dispersed
1,265  Kgs. of various seeds distributed
28,679  Plocss of varlous seedlins distributed
50 Meters of Irrlgation canal rehabilttated
7  Tribal assoclatlons with 345 total mcibership organized
I  Equrment requisitioned and rsceIved



- 40 -
Perlod of
Coaonents      lmplmntig  Impmntatlon                  Accoapileunt
Agency     (Year)
35. Rubber Development (RD)  DA-SCO  1988-1989       72 Aricultural Fleld Techiclarm trained on nuber
produotion and teokgy
8 DA staff attnde the Rbber Salhoklers trainig
cose in Thaland
2.178 RUtkbr farme trained on varbis aspects of nl*er
productlon
17 Pilot   tration held at farers field
5 Cionl adaptation trials conducted at DA fbeid statlons
17,000 Budwood stus/sdlhgs gnerated In 33 A rmirseris
1 Feashiilty Study an NatLral Rtber Testha ad
Crtifiation Laboratory completed
Phllippie memerW  of the hntematl RLer
Reerch Development Board (ROB) acared
1 EquPmnt reilsitKa and recived
4.6       Tasues and Problems.   The difficulties encountered during project
Implementation were:
(a)  Delays in the yreyaration of financial reports. Particularly at the
field level. This had adversely affected the disbursements of loan
proceeds and, consequently, the level of funding available to the
project. Lack of incentives to administrative personnel preparing the
financial reports was the main cause for their delayed submission.
(b)  Comnlexitv of the nroiect.  The multi-disciplinary, multi-functional
and multi-component nature of the project rendered coordination,
monitoring, decision-making and overall management control of project
activities very tedious and difficult.
(c) DA Reoraanization. The organizational uncertainty, brought about by
the  Department's  prolonged  move  to  reorganize,  delayed  the
finalization of required staffing plan. This in part explained the
apparent lackluster comitment of the central office to support the
work of the regional offices. This was compounded by the lack of
continuity in the management of thae project as a result of frequent
changes in leadership of the Department.



- 41 -
(d)  Centralized DA Administrstive Set-up.  While ASSP's delegation of
authority had been clearly defined, regular DA delegation of
authority, particularly to the regional officials, was sufficiently
clarified only on January 15, 1990 through Memorandum Order No. 4.
Processing of disbursements became less time consuming with the
issuance of this order.
(e)  Central Committee on Bids and Awards (CCBA). Because of the peculiar
and massive procurement and construction requirements of ASSP, a
separate Committee on Bids and Specifications (CBS) was created in
1983. Several months after the February 1986 revolution, a CCBA was
established absorbing the functions of the CBS.   The Committee,
however, had inadequate information on accounting and autlting
requirements for bidding. It was only in November 1987 wlhen these
requirements were clarified. Soon after this clarification, ASSP was
able to bid out ard award 2,427 equipment and 169 civil works
projects.
(f) Government Policies and Procedures. As prescribed by certain laws and
regulations, goverDnent policies and procedures were too tedious to
follow by projects like ASSP with definite time frame and objectives
to meet.  Frequent revisions and modifications prescribed by the
government resulted in further difficulties in accomplishing project
activities.
ImPlementati3n Schedule
4*7       The ASSP was originally scheduled to be implemented over a six-year
period ending December 31, 1987 with December 31, 1988 as the loan closing date.
However, performance was rather low in the civil works and equipment procurement
components because of the delay in the release of the initial funding and
administrative constraints encountered which were beyond the control of the
management of the project.   The DA reorganization and the change in the
management after the revolution were major reasons resulting in project delays.
In recognition of these valid reasons, the following extensions were requested
and approvedt
Extension                         Closing                   Grace Period
First                          June 30, 1989                December 31, 1989
Second                         June 30, 1990                October 31, 1990
Third (Final)                  December 31, 1990            April 30, 1991
Implemnatation experiences and the changing bureaucratic and economic envirorment
also indicated that the project not only needed extension but also reassessment
of relevance of activities and attainability of project targets. This led to the
cancellation of a part of the loan and the restructuring of project components
twice.



- 42 -
Procurement
4.8       Procurement Proaress and Problems.  The Procurement Unit of the ASSP
Project Management Office (PHO) was created purposely to upgrade the existing
research, extension and regulatory services facilities of DA through the
provision of necessary equipment and vehicle. About 20 percent or $11.5 million
of the total project cost was allocated for the procurement and acquisition of
equipment, farm machineries and vehicle.. The relatively limited provision for
vehicles, particularly for the agricultural research component, was based on the
assumption that a significant portion of the requirements had been covered by the
National Extension Project (UP), a World Bank project before ASSP.  After
restructuring and project cost revision, funds allocated for the procurement of
equipment were about $10.63 million. Actual procurement fell short of envisioned
procurement particularly during the early years of the project because of the
following reasons: (i) delay in initial release of funds due to non-inclusion
of the project in the 1982 budget appropriation; (ii) delay and limited releases
of funds during the second and third year of project implementation; and
(iii) cancellation of contracts due to unavailability of stocks. Subsequently,
the following problems were encountered:
(a) Late release of funds and delaved approval of equipment list. The
late releases of funds and delayed approval of equipment list
shortened the lead time for bidding and contracting activities. This
resulted in reversions of unobliSated amount to the General Fund.
This difficulty was corrected in 1985 when DBM agreed to obligate the
unutilized amounts in the name of the project.
(b) ChanMe in Management. With the change in DA management after the
February 1986 revolution, a new DA procurement system was adopted
allowing bidding activities to comnence only in November 1986.
(c) Complicated Procurement Process. The long and complicated procurement
process which was the result of merging of the World Bank and GOP
procedures as summarized in Table 3 slowed down the procurement of
equipment.
(d)  U familiaritv with Government and World Bank Procedures.  Lack of
familiarity with government and the World Bank procurement guidelines
and procedures on the part of DA management resulted in numerous
document rectifications and adoption of deficient processes slowing
down the decision-making.
(e)  Eauipment  List and Specifications.    There were  delays  in the
preparation of equipment list and specifications due to:
(i) insufficiett ability of staff implementing different components
to translate their respective requirement into appropriate lists
and specifications of compatible equipment, particularly in the
case of specialized scientific research equipment;



- 43 -
(ii) frequent turn-over of the staff in charge of preparing
specifications;
(iii)  communication and coordination difficulties between the PMO and
the end-users due to complexity of the project having numerous
implementing units operating at the regional and provincial
levels.
(f)  Difficulty of Convening the CCBA.  In the later part of the project,
the bidding and awarding were more difficult because of the difficulty
of convening top level DA officials designated as members of the CCBA.
(g)  Bureaucratic Procedures. Actual deliveries of equipment to end-users
were also affected due to the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures
specified by the goverment in general and the DA in particular. In
1989 a series of issuances from the Department of Finance affected the
release of imported equipment and accessories and spare parts to
operate them were not given custom clearance due to non payment of
taxes and duties. At that time, there had been no clear coordination
between the Bureau of Customs (BOC) and DBM on rules governing
importation of equipment by Foreign-Assisted Projects (FAPs). Funds
to pay for these imports were requested, but approval was deferred
pending finalization of implementing guidelines of Sec. 14 of General
Provisions of R.A. 6831. It was only after October 1990 that the said
implementing guidelines took effect and the withheld equipment were
released.
(h)  Suppliers' Contracts. There were delays in the approval of suppliers'
contracts due to (i) the unfamiliarity of the signatories with the
procurement procedures; and (ii) the need to review every contract/
transaction by numerous DA officials before the approval of the
Secretary.
(i)  Installation of Delivered Equipment.  There was delayed installation
of delivered equipment on account of the inadequacy or absence of
local servicing capability, non-compatibility of the new equipment
with the old units and the lack of funds with the end-users to cover
installation costs.



- 44 -
Table 3:  PROCUREMNT TIMETABLE
Tim-mm~~~~
TINE -PEM4E
Activity                           LCBL          ICBA           ISLI
1. Approval by the DBM of the list        3 months      3 months
of equipment and corresponding
Advice of Allotment
2. Preparation of the list of             2 weeks to   1 to 2          2 weks to
equipment and specifications           I month       months         1 month
3. Preparation of bid documents           2 weeks to   I month
I month      to 1.5
months
Request for Quotation (RFQ)                                         2 weeks
for IS                                                              to I =nth
4. Submission of draft to World           2 weeks to   I to 3          2 weeks
Bank for approval                      I month       months         to I m*th
5. a) Advertisement and issuance of       2 weeks to   I to 3
bid documents to interested         1 month      months
suppliers
b) Issuance of RPQ to 3 to 6                                        1 to 2
interested suppliers                                            weeks
6.  Bidding Period - Preparation          I to 1.5      2 to 3
of bid proposals by suppliers          months       months
7. a) Opening of bids, evalua-            1 to 2        2 to 3
tion of bid proposals              months        months
b) Evaluation of price/                                             2 weeks
technical proposals                                              to I mth
8. a) Award to winning bidders;           1 to 2        1 to 2
preparation of contracts            months       months
b) Award of contracts for IS                                        2 weeks
to 1 mmth
9. Opening of L/C                                       1 to 2         1 to 2
months         months
10. Shipping Period                                      4 to 6         4 to 6
months        months
11. Delivery/Acceptance of                 1 to 2        1 to 2
equipment                              months        months
La  Local Competitive Bidding
b  International Competitive Biddin.
j   Intenmtional Shoppin.



- 45 -
4.9       The difficulties and delays encountered during the period 1982 to 1986
resulted in a large backlog in procurement. Procurement activities had to be
intensified during the last years of implementation. As of December 1990, a
total of 4,957 units of equipment and vehicles were procured and delivered to the
end-users.
Infrastructure
4.10      Proaress and Procedures of Implementation.  Out of the total ASSP
project cost of $42.6 million, the infrastructure projects were allocated
$9.6 million. Of this amount, 85 percent was programmed for the establishment
of facilities that would support the agricultural research component of the
project. About $6.4 million or 67 percent of the total was for the construction
of Regional Integrated Research Systems (RIARS) Stations aimed at supporting DA's
adaptive and on-farm research activities.  Based on the project design, all
Infrastructure projects were programmed for completion during the first three
years of the project implementation. However, majority were started only during
the fourth year of the project implementation because the needed time for the
pre-construction activities was not included in the project design.   Other
activities required from the project's conceptualization to its completion also
delayed the implementation of the civil works (Table 4 - Schedule of Activities).
The World Bank requirement of awarding of contracts through public bidding was
strictly enforced by the project management. There were a few problems like
underpricing and overpricing of bid prices due to erratic construction trends and
peso devaluation, particularly in 1984. All documents prior to tendering were
forwarded to the World Bank for review and were approved. World Bank comments
on the design and conformity with the construction standards were incorporated
in the final design of the civil works.
4.11      Ortanization and Management.  To facilitate the implementation of the
civil works projects, the ASSP had an infrastructure unit which provided services
in civil works planning, awarding of contracts, monitoring and turn-over of
completed facilities to end-users. The PHO hired private engineering firms to
augment its architectural, engineering and construction managemer capability.
In 1983, the Infrastructure Sub-Coimittee (ISC) was created compo.ed of engineers
and architects from National Irrigation Administration (NIA), Bureau of Soils
(BS), Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) and PCARRD as members and chaired by the
Chief of DA Legal Division. There were difficulties in convening the ISC, its
members being occupied with their regular dutica as heads of their respective
offices.  Its task to review the project was   rned over to the PMO.  This
eventually resulted in the dissolution of the committee in 1986.
4.12      From 1983 to 1985, most of the engineering designs were prepared but
there was significantly low level of consultation with the direct end-user. This
had the following results:
(a) change in the location of the Ipil RIARS (R-IX) due to non-conformity
to site conditionsa



- 46 -
(b) relocation of the nine staff cottages of the Dalwangan RIARS (R-X) due
to lack of proper deliberations with the end-userss
Sc) changes in power distribution system due to technical and
administrative policy differences (this was settled but caused delays
in project completion specifically in R-XI RIMS and Central Post
Entry Quarantine in Los Banos); and
(d)  lack of clarity in the various technical specifications, resulting in
change orders.
4.13      Problems Encountered. No infrastructure projects were completed per
original schedule due to the following problems:
(a) insufficient time allotted in the project design for the pre-
construction activities;
(b) delay in the releases of funds from DBM resulting in non-payment of
the contractors' progress billings which affected their cash flows;
(c) reorganization of the DA;
(d) over-centralization of authority for disbursements and bidding; and
(e) economic crisis which resulted in claims for price adjustments by
contractors.
Despite all the above problems, the PM0 with the support from top management was
able to substantially accomplish the program for infrastructure projects.



:  :   ::                                          1311  IEsIE3 IEl I          lItS
:     ..                                            -                                  --- :- -
*~ ~ ~~IIIIII :Esis i:T1u:  2 :3   :  6  :  S: :    :  t  : I    :                                                              ::U   : 11  : U    : I z:  U      is   : s   :
: aICt 1Iuit IuIS       :    1111       :(UlS3:l:2:Xl::4:1:61:a:10: is  :U:,3t:l:li:,s:Is:1:2:as:,,:lo:21:2:2:2,:5:2s:30:3:32:5::3'w34W3i:63vw  5 5 I  1:14546414143:a:S6:SI:S:S3:51:55:5i'57 :U:5:i1:0:6:U:AM
:ki._tl, of U_ Cu.I..taa  :C, OM I to   1._
5ceAltedt . uam cantuzze   c  :             6.                                                                                                                                                                     :
:I.11a  dott "aif *t      :                :    :
t I
:Slbe #ITl. K"wiles of :UO         tut.  to:|                       
aceei"tid tSEW euaIu    :                 :6. -,                                                 _    ___ L_- _ ___  _  _
:azulbot pirititoel AS  cemlXtet   3.5
?muW"IcIuuevwuin           ASS.. cubo                                               I        I                                                                                                                            I
:o ptt /t   l e lllp by    :a,  1.0. a    I                                                                                          I
: orUter.lp L     U u01.11   U-stWr   I. 
....... .___ .... ...-..                    6..
:lrepaleulOBlAir    of fluaslil  cout".I 1.1s                                                           .
uNrkui &.:ap. kii         :0. anr & ii-:        I
K tI tlaN  11estlaStu     :S :_.6:
._._._. . ...     _     _       a _ ___   :...:
:g1dIai actio,ia 1 t iag 
Hl bilUtiN   bllto II ewtl  :Luiu.   .                                   
..................-. ..... ._                                                                                                                      -   -. -.                              -     ---*     - :
iId halutios gm btie. of :.13 enmbmat. 13.5:
:Coold  InSnli.tl:USt            t        14tr   IS:L
......................  ---- . ....                                     .    ..        .    ....... .                                                          -     4 :--
Costract heparstlosl ou:C. coat,Iat: \         :
:011 u I, Cr     8Itt81e}< 
:COUtrKetIaa lath         :Coatndv. or.1
:bd-m,.4ad   :W                                                                                     Cmtulas hu
...........___ ........_.. ........ __.  .......... . ........ __.
hrsuOver ul keqituac       M118mr. 51. 1I.I:
:ass. c.stncwl    :                                                                                                                                                              L
:                          a Aim:1  lesmitelbi                                                                              1.l
) tW Itotbkrmu            C1   -Ceais lmadttes a                   S    tljri                               t- It *.jfg t  b*    .         PI.S 6 igfi
.---- -     t--- k Ito cimd        1C   -C  lnr dusltu 1aua                L    - Irmtustld.&It I Cai. 4gt.



- 48 -
V. Financial Performance
Coat Estimates
5.1       The ASSP was originally costed at US$77 million with IBRD providing
US$45 million (58.45 percent) loan and the Philippine Government providing local
counterpart of US$32 million (41.55 percent). Total project cost amounted to
P 577.5 million based on an exchange rate of P 7.50 to US$1.00 prevailing in
1981. A restructuring agreement was undertaken in late 1984. Project cost was
scaled down to US$52.0 million with the cancellation of US$15.0 million from the
original loan and US$10.0 million from the GOP counterpart. Major reasons for
the revision of the project cost included financial constraints due to delay in
the provision of GOP counterpart during the start-up period and the peso
devaluation from P 7.50 to P 20.00 - US$1.00.   In 1987, a second project
restructuring was agreed upon further reducing the loan amount to US$22.0
million. This was due to further devaluation of the peso coupled with the slow
utilization of loan proceeds, particularly for civil works and equipment. On
September 1, 1990 the loan was reduced to US$20.60 million due mainly to further
devaluation of the peso.
Fund Administration
5.2       The DA Central Office (CO) as the agency in-charge of the overall
implementation of the project received major portion of the funds. Some of these
funds were passed on to the different regions and bureaus upon the request of the
PMO. Other funds were released directly by DBM to non-DA participating agencies
such as PCARRD, UPLB and FNRI. Funds for equipment procurement were administered
by DA-CO with the PHO handling the preparation of applications for loan
withdrawals.
Changes in E_xchane Rates
5.3       The change of the peso to dollar exchange rate from P 7.375 to P 28.00
increased the actual cost in terms of peso.   Over the years from project
preparation (1979) to project completion, the value of the peso as against the
US dollar has steadily declined (see Figure 1). With these changes in exchange
rates, the total revised project cost increased from P 577.50 million to P 876.0
million.



- 49 -
Figure 1
Average Exchange Rate - PER U.S. $1.00
2- X
:1~ 
w4
a
ai2    m u n ms w                    _ _
n -~~



- so -
Proiect Cost Increasea/Decreases
5.4       After the series of restructuring and loan cancellations, project cost
was finally pegged at US$42.60 million broken down into US$20.60 million loan and
US$22.0 million peso counterpart. Expenditures in local currency which were
eligible for reimbursement increased steadily because of increases in unit prices
of all commodities and services. However, the deterioration of the peso value
resulted in lower foreign exchange figures for disbursements, thus generating
savings in project cost in dollars terms.  Figure 2 illustrates the typical
effect on project cost of the changes in exchange rates showing the savings
generated from the programmed construction cost. Despite the decrease in project
cost, no originally programmed activities were deleted.  In fact, additional
activities were undertaken principally in support of the terminated National
Extension Project (NEP) and the new ASSP components.  Re-allocation of the
revised project costs per category of expenditures, major component and source
of financing is shown in Figures 3, 4 and 5.
Proiect Cost vs. Actual Disbursement
5.5       Of the US$42.60 million project cost, a total of US$41.53 million was
disbursed (see Table 5). Of the US$20.60 million loan, only US$19.70 million was
disbursed.   On the other hand, for peso counterpart, US$20.89 million was
disbursed out of US$22.0 million targeted. Table 6 shows that 96.28 percent of
funds available for civil works and 95.08 percent for equipment and vehiclels was
utilized. For current operating expenditures, 94.98 percent of the target was
met.
5.6       Consistent with the project cost allocation, RlARs component had the
highest disbursement followed by Plant Breeding (PB).   Table 5 shows the
financial performance per component. The table also compares the planned funding
support defined in the Staff Appraisal Report, and first and second restructuring
with the actual expenditures for each major ASSP component.
5.7       Physical and price contingencies included in the project cost were not
totally utilized as a result of the savings due to peso devaluation.   The
provisions for contingencies were included in the loan portion canceled.
Local Counternart Funding
5.8       Local  peso  counterpart  (GOP)  was  provided  for  in  the  Annual
Appropriation Acts from 1983 to 1990. Initial GOP funding of US$32.0 million was
reduced to US$22.0 million after the approval in 1985 of the first restructuring.
Since the loan agreement was signed in August 1981 and its effectivity date was
to commence in November of the same year, it was too late for the Government to
appropriate ASSP's budget operations until year-end. Even the project's budget
for 1982 was not appropriated because the government budgetary processes for 1982
had been completed in October of 1981, a month before ASSP's effectivity. As a
rule, funds for unappropriated expenditures are drawn from the lump-sum
appropriations provided in the General Appropriations Act of a given calendar
year. The ASSP, therefore, had to wish for luck to get a share in the said lump-
sum for its operating expenses in 1982.



- 51 -
RIARS IV: Saviwis 6_nte Due to Cage in Exchoap
Rate nt ti. Of ReiNbWut
11_
vvvv\                       ~~~vv\V
3                                         J
original    ftt" cos1 t       Dffterne (Swim)
(Coo"t7 plt)  _"
In ,,u                Us E U)    .n.l.
L ~~a  M          i
I~~aDla              U     S    "'R6241110



- 52 -
Figure    3
Total Project Coit - PER CATEGORY
rn-
3 -
I'~X
*AoWe  tgabW  E&Mp* TMt _       mm  3oS dWw  Mbms  ny"^h
Figure 4
Total Proi. Cos t  P ER MAJOR COI9ONENT
49
.7 ~ ~
U~~~
S~~~~
l2~J-ORIGINAL    r\--fTRST                v     -SECOND             xs  -FINAL
RESTRUCTURING            RESTRUCtURING



- 53 -
Figure  5
Total Proj Cost-PER SOIRCE OF FINANCING
II     /
U0    /
2S
20DT/
noU pRommaT CT 3 muTium  soam ,m,i                 PhIL
GOP     LmANw-



Tblo-5:  MFErTIG6 AND ACTUAL EXPENDITrLfS
For Co~onent
(In thosand pesos)
am ctions                                                               ACt E-e' Fsitures,
Second
First      restruc-                                                                                                                          Actal
restruc-   turing                                                                                                                            Over
SAR      turing     Now-Doc    Final                                                                                                                  Final
Compoent                  Jun 1961   Now 1904    1987    Sep 1990      1901     192       1968      1964      190       1906      1907     1968      1909      1990      Total      (3)
Anricultursl Deliver,
Iplementation of Eateeico
Delivery System                      9,994.12  30,567.16 30,5687.15                                                   677.81  19,695.03  5,387.76  3,412.58    968.00  30.141.98 96.S4
Livestock Field Service.    9,549.00  47,483.75  17,649.21  17,649.21    63.00    119.73    594.9S  1,140.64  2,111.60  1,465.48  4.456.29  3,151.09    391.42     0.00 13,502.45  76.58
Commnicetion Equipment                17,820.00  17,514.87  17,514.87                                                           16,566.87     0.00      0.00       0.00 16,56.67 94.24
Aplled Cesunicaetio           949.00  35,919.96  28,856.56 26,856.66    69.30     54.00    115.10    118.13    142.00   367.55 13.103.94  7,750.90  4.m.54       221.74 26,165.20 90.67
Subtotal              10.498.00  111,217.83  94,607.79  94,607.79   132.30    173.73    710.03  1,266.77  2.253.88 2,510.84 53.762.12  16.29.75  8,026.54   1,190.54 86.316.50
Anric.l tmrse R esearch
ewn Daulopont ARD)I
Rma25/TV                162,6S6.00  196,749.12  190,960.11 189,468.36   182.00    802.46  56806.70  11,905.81  16,350.33 39,119.27 39,997.76 30,824.24  16,S37.16  14,166.24 177,541.97  93.71  .
Technology Ceneration    42,854.00  49,037.10  48,008.96  48,008.96   105.00  2,62S.09  5,611.64  4,856.92 12,577.38 2,756.26  10,450.37  6,229.77   47.22       0.00 45,259.65 94.27
Snell Fare Systems       12,892.00  16,259.60  16,96.096  16,968.95   217.10  - 214.60  1,563.92   1,923.81  2,8D6.38 3,336.86  3,906.20  2,656.31    238.78     4.91  16,868.95  9.41
Inst. of Plant Breeding    48,046.00 621,874.70  68,460.21  56,480.21          550.02  1,114.95  3,312.29  3,445.84  4,867.79  12,351.29  17,249.48  4,205.49  14,908.36 62,005.51 106.03
,Sublots             266,458.00 328,919.72 314,418.23 312,926.48   504.10  4,190.25  14,097.21 22,000.83 37,179.93 50,080.18  66,705.62 56,959.60 20,878.65  29,079.51 S301,676.00
Au%ilisr Services (A51
Commoily Analysis         4,335.00   5,100.62   5,887.73  5,887.53    20.40     15.27    202.72    246.97  1,198.37  1,515.10    860.38  1,607.07    66.69       0.00  5,732.97 97.37
Plant Certification      12,949.00  13,512.08  12,192.89  12,192.89    35.00    131.0   1,140.56  1,201.16  2,5W.81  2,025.30  2,596.84  2,981.37    161.24      0.00  12,867.28 105S3
Plent Q,arantin.         27,928.00  21,290.68  22,329.63  15,480.38    35.00    15.00  1,134.45    998.58  4,918.49  1,298.89  7,645.S4  3,021.35    427.62   1,169.59 20,664.31 133.49
Fe" Analysis              6,604.00   6,449.94   5,759.21  5,759.21                       342.98    235.19    646.48  1,455.91   1,189.89    998.48    324.91    50.09  5,243.93 91.05
Livestock Qusrentin.      5,481.00   9,S76.57   9,875.42  9,875.42              36.15    412.20    198.82  3,560.82   335.83  1,353.14  2,475.22    517.88     876.25  9.766.31 98.90
Diseas Diagsis           12,432.00  10,923.56  10,239.85  10,239.85   100.45    52.10    696.99    373.95  3,362.35  1,943.51    986.43  1,167.90    350.29    734.98  9,768.95 95.40
Veccine Production       14,142.00  13,502.25  13,927.37  13,927.37             32.19   1,086.79    354.63  4,817.05   840.43  3,150.43    154.04  1,179.58   1.398.17  13,013.31  93.44
Veccina Quality Control   4,883.00   5,E59.43   4,951.18  4,951.18    30.17     19.24     77.09    157.92  2,387.56   488.51     25.87    874.28     32.02     697.75  4,790.45  96.75
Soils Laboratory Services              60.00   1,000.00  1,000.00                                                                         754.48    245.52       0.00   1,000.00 100.00
Sbtl                8954-00  86500S.1   86f16S28 79 314.       22102    ;9o.95  6,093.78  3.767.   23J85.9 9S          17S.31  14 034.19  330 J5    4.926.4 82847.49



Table : PR0JRT1   NO ACUASL 09P1UIES (cont'd)
Prai__t__-_                 -                                           Ac tual Expandi tr
Osecond
First     rctrc-                                                                                                                          A
rIotrc-   turia                                                                                                                           ever
SAR      turing     "Dv-DOc    Final                                                                                                                Fir_l
Coaponeat                 Jan 19t1  NM  1964    1987    Sep 1990      1981     19B2      1963     19t4      1968      1966     197      1968      1969      1990     Total      (I)
Nanmeant Swa.. 061
Oatl Oev.lopent          23,040.00  26,244.70  33,498.46 83,498.46            162.27  2,318.28  2,688.20  4,151.99 4.773.25  5,800.14  4.165.53  2,360.50     0.00 26,420.16 78.87
Food ad Nutrition        11,239.00   5,451.76  10,152.26 10,162.26            118.89    611.75    729.71    835.43   476.60  1,039.99  5,460.11    902.19     0.00 10.171.70 100.19
Arihusinrsa               5.917.00   5.473.20   S,822.94  5.52.94    13.30    6.00    596.46    258.91    977.10    20.16   (996.96  1.620.38    748.08      0.00  5.737.35 103.6t
Atric. Rea.acr  Office    6,591.00  10,193.54  10,194.81  10.194.81    21.00  23.85    456.89    952.29  2.386.29  1,282.0S  1,808.14  1.95159     0.00       0.00  8,6B2.08 87.12
Project Ihaganot Office la 94,782.00 173,022.86 188,051.67 188,051.67    14.00  18.85    702.01  S.288.95 21,512.24 7.771.80 14,629.46  7,043.06 71,739.55  58,992.84 185,662.76 96.73
Project Preparation
an Noitoring            5,079.00  11,491.73  10,821... 10,821.15             11.00    703.92    812.39  1.18.69   973.23  3.021.32  6.136.42    867.71      0.00 13.512.68 124.87
Training                 52,466.00  72,971.35  a9.2S1.40 59,231.40   133.00    57.00  8,517.38  9,483.14  4.577.15 13.535.7  4,792.81 1O,643.38  7,328.02     0.00  4.067.25 91.2B
Conltancy                           10,650.78  10,521.98  9,675.68                                568.18           1,606.01  1,150.24  3.382.21  1,405.40     0.00  8,112.04  83.84
National Nutrition Survey   12.676.00   5,860.84  10,157.79  10,957.79    70.00    772.77   J,201.69   1303.39  1.774.b9   450.77  3.938.96  1,430.31  15.26  0.00 10.957.74 100.00
Shhlal              .,211,8O  S2i.SBO,.76 3.692.41     6.16   2513   1-t67.   10h108.B  t9.885     37.401.48 0 31.389.2  S712  41.833.0 6..3.71 5L.942.  323.52S.
RIDM  (substation)                            13,275.36  13,275.38                                                                        0.00  1,628.70   3,392.10  5,015.80 37.78
Cratcds                                        2,442.00  2,442.00                                                                     2,442 00      0.00      0.00  2,442.00 100.04
Tribal Agriculture                             9,5SB.00  9,538.00                                                                     6,038.00  1,836.U2      0.00  9,874.12 103.52
Robber Development                             7,18S.33  7,18S.33                                                                     6,860.59    294.95      0.00  6,900.54 96.04
Project Pr"earation
(Reginal Identific.)                          7,844.00  7,844.00                                                                     3,354.00  2,923.00   1,000.00  7,27..900 92.76
Foreign Assisted
Projecta Office                              2,818.00  2.818.00                                                                     2,816.60      1.40      0.00  2.818.00 100.00
Sugr Raeerch A Dov.                            4,073.00  4,073.00                                                                        0.00      0.00   2,711.00  2,711.00 66.5ti
Rbae Reeercb a Dow.                            8,556.00   ,586.00                                                                         0.00  2,323.23     830.77  3,154.00 88.70
Poet-Warvet Sea. A Dew.                          888.60    583.60                                                                         0.00    583.60      0.00    583.60 100.00
Sbotal                                   iL0  O  51b315.29 51W316.29  gm oo         gm L0               gm      L3 9              2o60.00   9Lm 5e5I0   7,iQL87   40.M.06
Contingencia            154,875.00  12,313.00
Uallocated                   -      1,060.00
Totl P" o                677.800.   963.s76.44 BesW457.00 875.269.75  1108.72  5.32.u9 ,0009.40 46 919,  100W321.24 93S88Z s 7254s4.07 14372 ss U      s 1202.073.59        13s  93.31
Exchange Rate               7.5000    18.5s45     20.I40  20.5697   7.9002     8.9930  12.3726   18.3748   19.2816  21.4043   20.6345   21.2700   21.9048    27.0647  20.5697
Total US Dollar*          77,040.00  51,974.27  44,000.00 42,600.00   140.34    648.51  2,425.47  2,533.49  5.202.96 4,386.21  8,802.94  7,163.76  5,805.23   3,771.47  40,600.38 ss.31
Pm o  unterpart           32.040.00  22,038.27  22,000.00 22.000C00   140.34    621.71  2,302.91   1.480.77  2,C91.85 2,384.03  4,974.92  4,429.30  1,206.61  366.94 20.899.38
La" Procd.                48,000.00  29,936.00  22,000.00 20,600.00             26.80    12.86  1,072.72  2,211.11 2,002.18  3,828.02  2.734.46  4,598.62   3,404.53  19.701.00
La Includes provision for eqipeent and vehicles for all co_ onnt.



TIkl6 : FillJECTINi AN0 ACFAL EXPEW9DllW
Per Catheori
(thou san   *)
rolls im                                                            Act.ual Expeditres
First rd _euc-
e.ttc.-  taIr                                                                                                                            Over
SM     terin6       he      F;a l                                                                                                                Filui
Cateem                Jun 1961  Nov       A"7      59 1990    1981 s sI2          1983     184       198       1e6    1967        1986      199       1990    lTotal      ()
Vehicles             9,075.00  17,056.61  20,M.24  2D0M.24                               2,602.40            2,355.42  1.00300           25.645.?            31,e06.39 >
Equipset            77,210.00 162,995.86 175,219.35 168,370.10                                    17,643.43  4.002.39 61,169.5   5.800.22 34.49163 34.92.82 148,253.94  >
ClviI Works        109,575.00 211,463.01 207.63362 2U6,141.87                            2,422.52 21.437.06 29.47n.27 6W944.56 30,031.00 27,219.92 31,943.29 196,474.64   98.28
Canteltet
servic,           18,900.00  10,660.78  13,54.93  12,699.66                             5,280.99           1,423.40             412.43    995.22            8,112.04 >
Salaries            63,550.00  74,183.74  62,526.30  66,526.30          442.20  4,413.21  6,410.63  9,863.42 11,751.90 13,897.00 15,976.00  2.244.00    910.00 65,900.36 >
Tralaiag            46,675.00  91,097.33  40,616.17  40,616.17                   828.00  8,689.66  4,712.81 10,945.40  6,658.00 10,297.00  2.445.04    998.60 39,975.31     94.96       a
Othne.             106,000.00 275,066.91 361,'18.39 361,118.39 1,108.72  5,390.36 25,268.19 23,613.78 46,474.52 33,926.94 4E8.61.94 09,654.29 54,120.37 35,294.86 342,615.96 )
CmnUingncie,       1i4,671.00 120,313.00
Ihallocated                    1,060.00
Totl Peer          67,600.00 963,876.44 865,457.00 676,269.73 1.106.72  6,8S2.66 30,009.40 46,919.98 100.321.24 93,683.72 176,464.04 152,372.95 127,162.45 102,073.59 635,138.64  95.31
Eacaga itat.       e  7.3000    18.543    20.1240   '0.5697  7.9002    6.s936   12.3726   18.3748   19.2016   21.4043   20.64    21.2700   21.9048   27.0647   20.6697
Totl uS Doilor.     77,040.00  51,974.27  44,000.00  42,600.00  140.34    648.51  2,425.47  2.55.49  6,202.96  4,S36.21  8,502.94  7,163.76  3,806.23  3,771.47 40,600.36  95.31
P.s Counterpart     32,040.00  22,e03.2n  92,000.00  92,000.00  140.34    621.71  2,302.91  1,460.77  2,991.8   2,3S4.05  4,974.92  4,429.30  1,206.61    366.94 20,899.3s
tee. Proceed.       45,000.00  29,936.00  22.000.00  20,600.00          26.60    122.56  1,0.72  2,211.11  2.002.18  3,628.02  2,734.46  4,698.62  5,404.63 19,701.00



- 57 -
Fundint of Foreign Exchanae Comnonent
5.9       The foreign exchange requirements of the project were financed by the
World Bank loan of US$45.0 million. After restructuring and loan cancellations,
the original loan amount was reduced to US$20.60 million.   The loan had an
interest rate of 9 3/5 percent per annum on the principal withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time. The loan was also subject to a commitment charge
at the rate of 3/4 of 1 percent per annum on the principal of the loan not
withdrawn from time to time. Payment of the principal amount of the loan is on
every first of March and first of September of the year beginning March 1, 1987
through September 1, 2001. As embodied in the Schedule I of the Loan Agreement,
the proceeds of the loan were allocated to various categories with corresponding
percentages of eligible expenditures to be financed in each category. After the
two restructuring, the Bank approved the revised allocation of the project loan
to various categories of expenditures and amended the Table in para. l of
Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement as shown in Table 7. The same table shows total
loan availments for each category at the end of the project.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
5.10      There were three loan withdrawal schemes authorized:
(a) reimbursement scheme for expenditures incurred on civil works,
supplies and materials, locally procured equipment and travel expenses
of foreign scholars (WB Procedure I);
(b) direct Payment (WB Procedure III); and
(c) Commitment Procedure with Qualified Agreement to Reimburse issued by
the Bank in favor of the Commercial Bank of the Supplier (WB Procedure
VI).
Procedures III and VI were followed for expenditures which were 100 percent
financed by the Bank such as foreign consultants, foreign training and locally
procured equipment (ex-factory).



- 58 -
Tb 7: LOAN ALLOCATION AND AVAILMENTS
(As of Decmber 31, 1990)
on US$0)
ohodulh I                                       Revisd Allocation
FIFOt       Second                      Total
Original       Exenditur        redruo.    rstuo-                         loan
Casgoiy                  Allmation      to be financed    turing      tudng         Final         avaliment
0')
CMI Works                14,000.00      80%              9,500.00     6,700.00     6,900.00      6,095.85
Equlpment, mateas
hemalb and vehicles      15,000.00       100% of fdtgn   13,000.00    11,400.00   11,200.00     11,147.43
ependituree,
100% d locl
euxetres
(ex4fctoy and
65% of othe
ependftures
Consuheb' 8.ofo
and overes training      10,000.00      100%             6,500.00     3,600.00     2,500.00      2,456.00
Unalloated               6,000.00                        1,000.00      300.00
Tjgj                  45,00.OO0.0O                    000      .    OO         20600.00      19.701.08



_ 59 -
5.11      In 1986, the project was authorized to open a Special Account with the
Bureau of the Treasury and Central Bank of the Philippines. Initial deposit to
the account was US$300,000. The amount was later increased to US$1.0 million
(March 1988), US$2.0 million (September 1988) and US$3.0 million (May 1989). By
the end of December 1990 the WB had recouped in total the deposits made in the
account.
5.12      With the introduction of the Special Account or Working Fund, there
were slight changes in the procedures of loan availment (Figure 6). Under this
scheme, the authorized amount is deposited by the WB with the Central Bank to
service as a revolving fund for loan disbursements. All loan withdrawals were
replenished once every three months or whenever the balance of the account was
down to 50 percent of the authorized amount.
5.13      Because of the Special Account, the Bank accepted applications for
loan withdrawal only if the amount involved was a minimum of US$650,000 or
32.5 percent of the Special Accnunt. This scheme lessened the work of the Bank
since it did not have :o process applications involving small amounts. However,
the Philippine government had to pay interest on the deposited amount whether
these funds were utilized or not.  The Special Account partly overcame the
limitation of the Philippine government to provide the required funds for the
project.
5.14      Despite the presence of the Special Account scheme for loan disburse-
ment, project disbursement was slow because of the tedious process of securing
advice of allotment and funding warrant.   The Funding Warrant provided the
project with the cash to spend and such expenditures became the basis for
soliciting reimbursement through the Special Account. The procedures before the
Special Account was set-up did not require funding warrant for direct payment or
QAR. Loan withdrawals, therefore, were easier to accomplish.
Loan Disbursements
5.15      On a yearly cumulative basis, actual disbursements compared with
prograimed or estimated disburseme.ats are presented in Table 8. As of December
31, 1990, cumulative disbursements amounted to US$19.7 million or 96.57 percent
of the US$20.60 million target. However, additional disbursements eligible for
reimbursement estimated at US$0.27 million were expected to be reimbursed before
the project's closing date of April 30, 1991. About US$0.63 million qualified
for reimbursement could not be submitted before the closing date due to
administrative and financial problems in the processing of documents.



PROCESS FLOM S I  ARY
LON VAINIIE  OUT Of SFICIAL ACCOUMN
Drbi t o uA f or
Iien    A  rlnetn                      Disbursment          o   -i Brau of1   t"eIrorr
foeje                                                            Cf   itenr   DIanntk  to
{          \      R~~~~eplenisinent                            "reofparaic-n      {  
~~ * a~~~~of1                                                 OfJ aptlrw icsJ
DIN - Dtpartment of Budget and llanagetent               $01 - Statement of Expenditures
10 - Implem enting AgencU                               BJR - Bureau of the Treasury
AA - Advice of Allotment                                ilDb- Regular Demand Deposit
nc- Peso counterpart                                     CD- Central Bank
LU  - Loan Proceeds                                      II - Uorld Bank
St - Special Account                                     FAS - Fiscal Asencv Service



- 61 -
Tbb 8: ACTUAL VS. ESTIMATED IBRD DISSURSEMENTS
As of Decmber 31, 1990
on million US$)
Cumulatve
IBRD f1oe                                       Estmated                               Cumulaiv
year and                                  Original                                     actual over
semester                                  per SAR        ReviAd         Actual         esimabd
0)
1982                       2nd            0.060                          0.112          18.70
1968                       1st            1.600                          0.164          10.20
2nd            3.400                         0.513           15.10
1984                      1lt             7.100                          1.348          18.90
2nd           11.500                         2.272           19.70
1985                       lt            16.600                          3.771          22.40
2nd           22.600                         4.767           21.10
1986      Doe 31, 1985    1lt            28.100
Mar31, 1986                                   6.780           5.780
Jun 30, 1986     2nd           33.300         6.140           6.140
1967      Deoc31, 1966     lot           37.900          7.770           7.140          84.00
Jun 30, 1967     2nd           42.100         8.500           7.770
lo8       Doc 31, 1967     let           45.000         10.800           9.600          88.89
Jun 30, 1968     2nd                          10.800         10.800
1989      Deo 31, 1966    1t                           12.6tO          12.61O
Jun 30, 1969    2nd                           16.610         15290            9205
1990      Dec31, 1969       st                          19.810          17.770          90.62
Jun 30, 1990     2nd                          19.800         19.230           97.12
1991      Dc 31, 1990      1.t                          20.400          19.700          98.57
Apr30, 1991      2nd                          20.600         19.970L
La Broken down Into:
$19.70  -      Disbursement tha lready qualfied for reimbursment as of December 31, 1990
0.27          Esimated addiiona disburement to be reimbursed up to Apfil 30,1991.
$19.97  -      Totl estimated loan avallmont by April 30, 1991
0.63  -      Otr programmed disbursement that cannot be submied for reimbursweent due to
adminitave and finanial problm In the prooesing of documents.
SM280.Q -      Total Loan



- 62 -
VI. Institutional Performance and Develolpment
Management and Orranizational Effectiveness
I6. 1     The Degartment of Aariculture IDA). The Department of Agriculture was
the main implementing agency. PCARRD, UPLB-FSSRI, UPLB-IPB and MIRl were the
participating agencies in the implementation of the project. The DA vent through
a series of reorganization and restructuring during the life of the ASSP in order
to achieve a more effective delivery system in relation to its research and
extension activities. As part of the agreement between the WB and the Philippine
government, a staffing plan consistent with the objectives of the ASSP indicating
the deployment of personnel in the DA Central Office, the Bureaus and the
Regional Office was implemented. However, before this staffing plan could be
fully implemented, the Department went through a total revamp. Thus, even in its
initial stage of implementation, the ASSP was caught in an organizational
adjustment process which slowed down the implementation of its activities.
6.2       Coordination problems and job insecurity beleaguered the DA because
of changing posts and assignments of personnel. By 1986, with the advent of the
new government, new organizational forms were adopted. The final organizational
definition of the department as mandated by Executive Order 116 was instituted
in June 1988.
6.3       Through the activities of ASSP, changes were instituted in the DA's
financial system.   ASSP's participation was indirect through training and
development of management, particularly for project level implementation. Many
of these processes used by the project were adopted in the regular structure.
6.4       At present, the DA is better equipped in managing its activities with
the support provided by the ASSP.   In fact, some outputs were quadrupled.
Reorganization of the DA also helped in its improvement since people were placed
properly to perform the functions. Decentralization was undertaken giving more
authority to the regions and provinces allowing them to plan and implement their
activities. However, some envisioned changes could not be implemented after the
reorganization since personnel who were performing activities under ASSP could
not be absorbed. Changes in government rules and regulations also hampered the
overall improvement of the DA.
6.5       Prolect Manatement Committee.  The PMC was set up in July 1981 and
served as the overall body responsible for implementing the project.   The
Secretary of Agriculture was its Chairman with the following as memberst four
Assistant Secretaries, ASSP Project Manager, and the Deputy Minister of the
Department of Budget and Management. By 1987, the major function of the PMC was
assumed by the Project Management Facilitation Committee (PMFC) of the DA which
related to a national Project Faeilitation Committee (PFC) for problems affecting
ongoing projects.
6.6       Project Management Office (PMO).  The PMO served as the secretariat
to the PMC and provided the coordinative function in project implementation.



- 63 -
Operation of the FO in the early stage of the project was hampered by the
unavailability of specific positions and budget. This was due to the fact that
project approval and start-up operation did not coincide with the planning and
budgeting cycle. Thus, initially, personnel and budget for the project were
provided through the Integrated Agricultural Production and Marketing Project
(IAPMP). It was only in late 1982 that the project was provided with its own
personnel and budget requirement.
6.7       Operation of the PMO covered the following activities:  Infrastructure
services, Procurement services, Accounting and Reporting, Training and
Development under CTU, Monitoring, Consultancy, and implementation of the Food
and Nutrition and Agribusiness components. The Project Managership/Directorship
was assumed by key officials of the DA like Assistant Minister/Assistant
Secretary and Undersecretary.
6.8       Research Coordinating Committee (RCC).  The RCC was established to
oversee the planning and research activities of ASSP and the DA. It provided the
link with PCARRD, which acted as the clearinghouse for all government
agricultural research projects. Secretariat support to the RCC was provided by
the Agricultural Research Office (ARO) which was later on upgraded to a bureau
status (BAR). The BAR was assisted by the Research Advisory Council in the
planning and evaluation of agricultural research activities.
6.9       Regional Integrated Aaricultural Research System and Provincial
Technologv Verification Team (RIARS & PTVT).  The   research   and   extension
activities of the ASSP were undertaken through the RIARS with PTVTs operating in
all provinces. The PTVT activities terminated in December 1988 in accordance
with the project timetable. The research activities were supposed to be institu-
tionalized in the Department's regular units. However, the limitations imposed
by government reorganization and funding could not sustain the magnitude of
implementation of these activities to the level that ASSP did.
Staff Recruitment. Trainina and Development
6.10      Staff Recruitment.   The scope of the ASSP progressively expanded
during its lifetime. By 1988, it had a total of 35 components with a manpower
complement of 1,987 positions (444 contractuals, 1,043 casuals, 482 seconded
staff and 18 consultants).   The hiring of contractual and casual personnel
followed a rigorous government evaluation and approval process that resulted in
reductions in actual positions available and actual positions filled.
6.11      The phase-out of the project and regularization of its operations into
DA activities started in January 1989. About 80 percent of personnel could not
be absorbed by regular operations primarily due to the following reasons:
(a) difference between contractual and regular salaries; and
(b) non-availability of appropriate regular positions after the
department's reorganization.



- 64 -
6.12      Training and Develoiment.  While inadequate availability of well-
trained staff Was vell recognized even prior to the existence of ASSP, resources
allocated for training activities were limited to P 75,000 per bureau per annum.
This was equivalent to an allocation of only P 6,250 per month. Coordination of
training and staff development Was also very limited.  Thus, as one of the
conditions fo.' ASSP loan effectiveness, the DA was required to implement a staff
development program. A Central Training Unit (CTU) was established within the
PHO to menage the implementation of this program. The staff development program
offered degree, non-degree and massive in-house training programs aimed at
upgrading skills and managerial capabilities of the DA st&ff in the critical
units of the Department. These programs were implemented in support of the DA's
regular training activities, and included those which were not feasible under the
regular budget. Tables 9 and 10 show the magnitude of training needs before the
start of ASSP. Table 11 shows the accomplishments under the ASSP compared to
targets.
Table 9: ESTIMATED DA TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
Training Level                    Local          Foreign         Total
Doctorate                            10              20             30
Masters                             120              70            190
Non-Degree                          150             150            300
Refresher (In-Service)            -.000             ---          7.000
Total                      7.280            280           7.520/a
/a The total original target of 7,520 was to be based on the assumptions shown
ta Table 10.
Table 10: DISTRIBUTION OF SLOTS (TRAINED MANPOWER)
Distribution of Slots (over 5 years)
Central Office/
Training Level                Regions                Bureaus          Total
Doctorate                        17                     13                30
Masters                         139                     51               190
Non-Degree                      130                    170               300
Refresher Courses             4.500                  2.500            7.000
Total                     4.786                  2.734            7.520



- 65 -
Table 11: REVISED TARGETS VS. ACTUAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS (TRAINING)
Type                        Planned        Revised         Actual
Ph.D. Degree                      26               17            18
H.S. Degree
- Foreign                         45              32             20
- Local                           60              60             52
Diploma Course la                  -              486           239
Non-Degree
- Foreign                        114              90            133
- Local                          125              86            261
In-House Trainings             7.000            2.700         2.538
Total.                      7,370            3.471         3,260
la Taken over from the National Extension Project (N8P) in 1985.
6.13      Special Order No. 239 created the CTU under the PHO on August 10,
1981.  It vas headed by a coordinator from the Department's Personnel Division
and assisted by an ad hoc staff consisting of training officers from the
Department and its six bureaus (BAI, BPI, BSWM, BEAR, BAS, BAExt) working on part
time basis. The Training Executive Committee (TEC) headed by the Assistant
Secretary for Pinance and Administration was also created under the same 8.0. to
provide policy directions to CTU.
6.14      Specific  &Mnnower  Development  Strategies.    Targets,  goals  and
functions of specific human resource development (HRD) interventions changed over
time due to the following reasons:
(a) the changing macro-economic situation of the country;
(b) the restructuring of the ASSP as a whole in accordance with the above
and the reorganization of DA; and
(c) the reduction of training budget of ASSP from US$5.17 to US$3.75
million.
6.15      Two HRD oriented entities within the DA were created during the 1987
reorganization of the Department. The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (3ARxt)
was reorganized into the Agricultural Training Institute (ATI) with capabilities
to train extension workers and farmer beneficiaries for technical and managerial
concerns. A Human Resources Development Division (HELD) was established within
the support services group of the Office of the Secretary with the purpose of
upgrading the administrative and managerial capabilities of the DA personnel.



- 66 -
6.16      Issues/Problems Encountered. The following problems were encountered:
(a)  Limitation in the functions of the CTU.  The scope of operations of
the CTU covered only the following:    training program design;
management of in-house training program; administrative support to
scholars of degree and non-degree program; and documentation and
monitoring of ASSP training related activities. Returning scholars
and trainees found difficulties in seeking appropriate placement after
the scholarships due to the absence of an institutional manpower
development program.
(b) Inadequate CTU staff. Over time, the number of programs and number
of trainings handled by the CTU varied significantly. Thus there were
times when the regular staff of CTU composed of the overall
ccordinator, a training specialist and a training assistant could not
sufficiently handle the workload.  Staff of the other units of the PNO
were tapped to provide the much needed support. A Training Executive
Committee (TEC) was also created to oversee the technical activities
of the training program.
(c) Chanaes in the DA Leadership. The changes in DA leadership resulted
in changes in policies affecting training priorities. These caused
delays in the processing of scholarship documents. There were also
new directives issued restricting training activities. In a number
of instances, because of the DA reorganization and change in
leadership, scholars were forced to quit their studies and had to
report to their mother units for fear of losing their jobs.
(d) Bureaucratic Procedures. The procedures for granting scholarships and
training assistance involved the following:   (1) presentation of
nomination; (2) technical/training assistance; (3) submission of
ASSP's recommendation; (4) approval by DA top management; and (5)
specific to foreign scholarship--approval by NEDA, DPA and the Office
of the President. In addition to the above procedures, scholarships
or training assistance vere governed by civil service and standard
government accounting and auditing rules and regulations.
(e) Non-returnina Scholars.   After their scholarship, a few scholars
failed to fulfill their obligations to serve the Philippine government
as prescribed in their scholarship/training contract. The DA is still
in the process of tracing the whereabouts of these scholars. Some of
those who had been found, offered to pay the Philippine government the
cost of their scholarship/training.
6.17      Consultanc" Services.  Through the PMO, components of the projects
were able to avail of the services of local and foreign consultants with
different specialization. As planned in the SAR and loan restructuring in 1985,
11 foreign consultants were programmed to be hired. Only three, however, were
actually hired (Table 12). Provision for the remaining eight was reprogrammed
for local consultants, thus generating savings which became part of the loan that
was canceled.



- 67 -
Table 12: TOTAL LOCAL AND FOREIGN CONSULTANTS HIRED
Component                     Local                Foreign
I. Aaricultural Serviceo
Deliverv Svstem
Implementation of Extension
Delivery System                     3
Applied Communication                                      1
lI. Avilied Research and
Development
RIARS/Technology Verification                              1
III.  Manaaement System
Agricultural Research Office          8
Project Management Office             3                    1
1 &
Total                         15                    3
La Consulting Firm.
6.18      Accountint and Reporting.   An accounting unit within the PNO was
established mainly to assist the DA in the administration of the project funds.
Its fuuctions were: (a) maintaining project accounts and documenting project
status in terms of fund expenditures; (b) consolidating the budget proposals of
the 35 components; and (a) preparing requests for fund releases and applications
for loan withdrawal.
6.19      Because the project had 35 components operating nationwide,  the
accounting unit had much difficulty securing the necessary documents for the
purpose of submitting budget and financial reports required by different national
government agencies. Most often, submission of statements of expenditures by the
components were delayed from six months to a year resulting in limited releases
of cash disbursement ceiling (CDC) and funding warrant (1W), specially during the
year 1985. With the' completion of 26 components in 1988, the accounting unit
had more time gathering and consolidating the reports from the remaining
components. Application, for WB reimbursement then were more up to date.
6.20      Effects of Chantes in Buddet and Accountlng Ssgtegs and Procedures.
The government-approved budget for the project is the main controlling factor in
its operation. Even direct payments by the WB had to be included and accounted
for in the government-approved budget.  Operationally, cash requirement was



- 68 -
provided through the CDC from 1981 to 1985, through the EW from 1986 to 1989 and
through the Notice of Cash Allocation (NCA) from 1990 to 1991. For each change
in the scheme of providing the cash requirement, new sets of documents were
required for submission. This entailed reversion of funds already provided in
order to clean up previous accounts and set up new accounts consistent with the
new scheme. The process of securing the funds anew resulted in unwarranted
suspension of activities particularly those which were procurement and
infrastructure related. The project found some difficulties settling accounts
payables before 1985 when rules on the effectivity of the approved budget and
advice of allotment      became more stringent.
6.21      The issuance of Memorandum Order No. 181 dated July 19, 1988 mandated
that obligations for all 1985 and prior year's accounts payable, whether
documented or not, should be reverted to the Unappropriated Surplus of the
General Fund. A substantial number of the project's outstanding accounts for
infrastructure and procurement for 1982 to 1985 were suspended pending approval
of the request for exemption from Memorandum Order 181. It took almost a year
before ASSP was granted an exemption resulting in more than a year's delay in
construction activities.
6.22        In March 1990, the 1W scheme was replaced by the monthly Notice of
Cash Allocation (NCA) Scheme and at that time, the ASSP had just received its 1W
for accounts payable. The funds had to be immediately reverted because of the
new scheme resulting in the suspension of construction procurement activities.
The MCA for those accounts payables was released only in July 1990.
VII.  Economic Re-evaluation
7.1       Results  of project  implementation  are easily perceived  in  the
operation of the mother agencies of the components.   The infrastructure
facilities set up by ASSP standout among the facilities of these agencies.
Equipment procured by the ASSP for these agencies increased tremendously their
capability to produce the quality and quantity of their outputs to wits
(a) BPI has increased its capacity in analyzing commodity samples from
2,500 during the start of the project to 23,209 at the end of 1988.
(b)  Through the RIARs pilot production programs,  a total of  1,537
technology adaptation and 1,694 technology verification schemes were
implemented.
(c)  BAI is now capable of analysing all feed samples tasked to it.  With
regards to its vaccine production activity, the BAI can now produce
1,281,300 and 6,271,000 doses of vaccines per year for the Hemorrhagic
Scepticemia and the New Castle diseases, respectively.



- 69 -
(d) BSWN was able to improve its Central Soils Laboratory with an overall
average of 80 percent increase in the laboratory and land resource
mapping activities.
(e) BAS was able to increase its sample coverage and strengthen its
statistical processes.
7.2       However, the sustainability aspect of the noted increases remains in
question.   It is expected that in order to continue the present level of
performance, the government will psovide enough funding support. The maintenance
of the facilities and equipment to keep them in good condition will entail a
bigger budget.
7.3       In the SAR, seven commodities were envisioned to be directly and
positively affected by the implementation of the ASSP. Of these commodities,
only corn and cassava attained the desired changes as envisioned. Sweet potato,
mungbean, soybean and peanut displayed irregular production trends which could
be largely attributed to the drought which hit the country almost every year.
No data can be gathered on sorghtm but it can be concluded that its pattern is
similar to that of the four commodities referred to above.
VIII. Conclusions and Recommendations
Prolect Justification and Obiectives
8.1       Research, planning, extension and regulation continue to be critical
areas of government concerns for effecting dynamic and desired changes in
Philippine agriculture. Through its package of development interventions, the
ASSP significantly enhanced the quantitative and qualitative abilities of the
Department of Agriculture and its key development partners in delivering these
much nseded services.
Proiect Content and Schedulina
8.2       The coverage of the ASSP captured almost the complete range of
projects and activities critically required for agricultural development.
However, in consideration of the capability of the Department, in particular, and
the Philippine Government, in general, the Project was much too complex to
implement,. given its coverage and prescribed timetable to accomplish the defined
objectives and targets. The Project, though equipped with a PMO and components/
participating agencies to implement its direct activities, relied on the regular
government entities and systems for its administrative, financial, and management
requirements. Conduct of activities in these regular units/agencies and systems
is by nature routinary and aystemic and is, therefore, inflexible to adjust to
the pace required in implementing the Project.   More often than not, duly
approved budget and cash needed were not secured in time to be able to undertake
project activitios as planned.  The situation was aggravated by changes in
government rules and regulations related to budget and fund management. Thus,



- 70 -
in a number of instances, procurement and infrastructure activities had to be
suspended to avoid legal and financial complications. Based on this experience,
it could be surmised that the designers of the Project planned, programmed, and
scheduled the Project in isolation, at best with only a token of consideration
of the units and agencies with which the Project needed to interact in order to
accomplish its goals.
8.3       The Project Monitoring and Evaluation system failed to capture these
implementation issues as it was designed only as an audit-type system. Project
"learning." critically needed in isolating "intended" and "unintended" project
experiences and results were not documented and processed for the purpose of
improving project planning and management. While this weakness became very
evident during the last three years of the Project, changes could no longer be
instituted since the priority had to be given to the implementatior of activities
directly accomplishing the Project's targets and objectives.
Prolect Imilementation and Overatin4 Outcomes
8.4       Like many foreign-assisted projects of the Government,  the ASSP
encountered major difficulties from its start-up and throughout its
implementation. RecopgnizIng these common experiences among these projects, the
Government set up a two-tiered Project Facilitation Committee (PFC) for foreign-
assisted  projects.    Within  each  Executive  Department,  a  lower  project
facilitation committee was established to address the internal issues affecting
implementation of foreign-assisted projects. Issues which remained unresolved
at the level of the Departments were elevated to the higher Project Facilitation
Committee.
8.5       The major issues/problems which affected the implementation of ASSP
were as foliowst
(a) .c the outset, the DA's reorganization and finalization of the
staffing plan as preconditioned in the basic project agreement, took
sometime to be implemented resulting in the following:
(i) job insecurities which caused low morale among DA employees
particularly those at the field level;
(ii) coordination difficulties, particularly with the regional and
provincial levels of activities; and
(iii)  issuance of Executive Order No. 116 which mandated the DA's total
reorganization resulting in the non-institutionalization and
dir -andment of the PTVTs who were the envisioned backbones of the
technology verification network of the RIARS.
(b) Leadership of the Department changed five times during Project life.
Operational priorities and management styles differed with each
Department Head which obviously resulted in unnecessary lag in Project
Implementation.



-71-
(c) At the Project components' level, heavy turnover of personnel
disrupted project implementation and monitoring activities.
(d) Centralized processing of vouchers caused mueh delay in payments to
contractors. This system made contractors financially tied-up forcing
them to request for suspension of work orders.   Construction,
therefore, had an inevitable slow down.
(e) Notwithstanding the above, frequent revisions/modifications in the
procedures prescribed by Government on fund management/utilization
affected disbursement. Funds not disbursed before year-end had to be
reverted thus resulting in much delayed payment of suppliers/
contractors. Considerable delays in the release of allotments also
hampered bidding activities.
(f) In many instances, lack of exposure to relatively modern equipment
gave component leaders much difficulty in defining equipment
requirements. Thus procurement of equipment which required complete
specifications was affected.
(g) Scholarships, particularly foreign, were not aligned with any career
development plan.  Thus a Lignificant number of ASSP scholars opted
not to fulfill their contract obligations to serve the Philippine
Government.
8.6       Despite these problems, project outcomes are very significant. Beyond
the very visible physical facilities and equipment acquired by the Department
through ASSP, increase in the outputs of components can easily be attributed to
the Project. Outputs of components have at least doubled. In some components,
outputs have quadrupled eliciting pride for those involved and responsible.
8.7       The timing and frequency of the World Bank's supervision missions were
very appropriate. The reviewing official of the Bank demonstrated sufficient
familiarity with the ASSP. However, the visits would have been more effective
if the duration of the missions was much 1or er to allow for sufficient inter-
action among mission members and officials/implementors of the Project. More
recommendations, therefore, could have been offered, particularly those affecting
project operations.
Rvaluation of Proiect Implementation and Outcome
8.8       An stated earlier, the limited capabilities of the components or
project beneficiaries to generate output have been enhanced significantly by the
ASSP. However, its contributions to or impact on the achievement of higher goals
and objectives cannot be measured accurately, more so because of other factors
affecting the agricultural environment which even from a theoretical standpoint
can be argued to have positively contributed to the accomplishment of goals and
objectives.   New policies and action programs adopted by the Philippine
Government significantly influenced people's decision-making resulting in
positive changes in the agricultural sector.



- 72 -
8.9       In substance, therefore, as an institution-building project, the ASSP,
through the mi_ of infrastructure facilities, equipment, training and provision
of start-up and operational budgets to components made the following major and
visible contributions
(a)  Promotion of aaricultural technologa  research and extension.  The
RIARs are operational making possible the rationalization of research
and extension actlvities, which are now easier to undertake as in the
case of the BAR. Capabilities of key institutions such as the IPB,
FSSRI and State Colleges and Universities through PCARRD, have
expanded;
(b)  Enhsncement of reaulatory services.  The analytical and evaluation
capabilities of units such as the DA Bureaus have been upgraded
through the provision of new equipment and buildings and trained
manpowerg
(c)  Enhancement of Trainina and Commun_.stIon Calabilities.  The ATI in
particular, equipped with new facilities and equipment, Is now able
to prepare non-formal -nd informal educational materials for massive
distribution and utilization to farmer-beneficiaries through the DA
Regional and Field Offices;
(d) Mannower Development. Through the ASSP, a total of 3,260 DA personnel
(equivalent to more than 10 percent of its present force) benefitted
under ddgree and nondegree programs.
8.10      Lessons. Finally, the ASSP offers the following lessons which can be
Important inputs to future project design and implementation:
(a)  Defining the direct areas of project Intervention alone, no matter how
detailed its definition is in terms of plans and programs, does not
ensure project success. Equally critical is the planning of support
and management activities to ensure timely provision of material,
financial, manpower and management decision inputs to the project.
(b)  As a project gets complex, the more it becomes necessary to provide
the project with a distinct and separate system to handle all its
busineos and operating concerns. In a number of instances, project
transactions are significantly bigger than those usually handled by
regular operating units. Also, implications of delays are not easily
understood by regular operating units who are used to systematic and
rsatinary processes guided by fixed calendar-based schedules rather
than project schedules.
(c)  Activities of many foreign-assisted project are mostly envisioned to
be internalized in regular operating units. These should entail close
scrutiny and possibly replanning of an organization's career
development plan. Salary rates, because of the short-torm nature of
the job, are generally higher in projects limiting at the onset the
capability of regular units to absorb project personnel.



- 73 -
(d) A real project monitoring and evaluation system capturing both audit-
type and learning-type of information should be deliberately set up
at the start of the project.
(e) Project funds should be managed through a special account governed by
existing rules and regulations, distinct from those of regular funds
supporting maintenance type of activities.
(f) At any given point in time, a project like the ASSP has at least a
thousand distinct activities being Implemented. World Bank miesions,
therefore, should consider this magnitude in deciding on tOb duration
of their supervision visits.



IBRD 23717
116                                                                                            I s'rr  4                                        128
PHILIPPINES
CLASS FICAnoN OF PRO'MNcE
BYGEOGA0PHICALREGIONS                                    AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
I ILOCOS                Vl WERSTERNV1SAYAS                                        0
20-       1 llocosNorte             38 Akiln                                                                 REGIONAL INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
2 *oco Sur               39 Capiz                                                           A      RESEARCH STATIONS
3 La Union                40  io.                                    SATANES                       REGIONAL INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
4 Panganinon             41 lloilo                                                o                RESEARCH SUBSTATION
CORDILLERAADiMNISTPA1IVE   42 Now  Ocgdrnoal rNATIONAL CAPITAL
REGION (CAR)                43 Guimoras
5 Abra            Vll CENRALVASAYAS                                      0                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
6 Krlinga-Apayao          44 Cebu                                         _      5>
7 Movntain Provin-e      45 Negro Orintfal                                                         REGION  BOUNDARIES
8 Rugao                   46 Bohol
9 Bongurt                 47 Siquijor                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
11 CAGAYANVALLiEY      VIII  EASTERNV1SAYAS
10 Beton                   48 Northrn-Samar                      /              1 1
11 Cogoyan                 49 W"m Samar                          I    s,
12 6atblo                  50 Easten Saoi()r                                    0 u 5I     erso
13 Ni -vaVicaya            51 Lcyh.                                   5   AR                      KILOMETERS 0            100         200        300
14 Quiino                  52 Soul ornLeyte                     I      _                                             I    I        I
111 CENTRAL LUZON               53 Bilimn                           I 2   os    12
15 Nun oEci1a        IX  WESTERNt ANDANAO                                           Ia,N Mi LES                         5 SO      100      150      200
16 Tarboc                  54 Zamboanga del Norte      gnarism   I      8a
17 Zomboalr.               55 Zambo*anga del Sur   S,_m,=i
18 Parnpango               56 Bosilian                        pi  J
19 But*cn                  57  Sulu                           -        13   14
20 Buloawn                 58 Tbwita,i                  J               _                                                                                  16
'6     NATIONAL CAPItAL      X  NORTHERN MINDANAO
REGION (NCR)                59 Surigao del Norio
IV  SOUTHERN TAGALOG            60 Camiguin                        1         5   2
21 Aurora                  61  auwnondulNorio              II   6                   U  Z   0   N
22 Quezon                  62 Msomis Oriental                           19                 C  
24 CaRze                   64 Bukidnon                       17   ta,J
25 Loguna                  65 AgusondelSur
26 Batangas          Xl  sOUHERN MINDANAO                     2  CR   kW4"
27 htnnduque               66 Surigoo del Sur
28 MindoroOrionthl         67 DavaoOriental                           2
29  rilndoroOccideortl     68 Davao del Note                                                           V_
30 Romebion                69rcoelo                                   6)o      2                                     CATANDUAk'JES
31 Puamn                   70 Sout                                                                               34
V   BICOL               XJI  CENTRALMNIYINAO                Z
32 CamarJinesNorer          71 Lancodo INorb fi,._                               \            \    
33 Cmonarine Sur           72 LonaodelSur                                      o
34 Cantanduonen            73 Norti Coftabto
35 Alty                    74 Maguindno                       IV      29
-6 Somsolon                75 Su3n Kuda.at                    I D                      i'(-                           8
37                                                         MIND                     1 M                              48
12                                                                                                                                                                 12-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                         P E<   $ orsngan
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~5
SOU    A CHIN                                                    VI; /40         r                           0Tool or"
aD   /                t     t        W   ' ~~~~~~~~EEU''          
PALAW                                        VSAY
NEGPV   I S A&Ir
ol readeis and p   fr k pPhd
internrol use of ThsWcorldBon&            31                                                                       4 Al ....    1t
yandiho drThe    s housed            -  .5
an th:s mn do no,nph on the
-.t  If ?l'Wokrlios Gmp                                                                                                                  n5
ny judrt an the lgo n j                                              S-lv IJ S"-r e
s. ofny fterritry                 - a Y                                                                                  da
ednrsemoflt ora                                                                                                  I      I     V.-
such b-.nd.ne.              C                                                                                                              n  n
T7T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D lii,J 2    68\
CHINAl<                                                                                    Jt .?               D         A     B     S      Ojh,
SIN        HI LIPPN /E Z O S
MAYIA          :r~-'~p
)t r, ,*  ,->         Ie.o
M1ET   BUE#hIE     (j ,    v                                            \   SULU                C-I, 1'  1"''
N 43 0    V-                                                                                                                                            1 A  AI SE3
t _  1   < r:\      _             l~~~~~~~210-                                        112-                                                 1128



