Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            pj       c Py
Report No. P-3099-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
June 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      =    Pesos (P) 7.5
P 1.00    =    US$0.133
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
APPU     -   Agricultural Project Preparation Unit (of MOA)
ARO      -   Agricultural Research Office
BAEcon   -   Bureau of Agricultural Economics (of MOA)
BAEx     -   Bureau of Agricultural Extension (of MOA)
BAI      -   Bureau of Animal Industry (of MOA)
BPI      -   Bureau of Plant Industry (of MOA)
BS       -   Bureau of Soils (of MOA)
ETD      -   Extension Training Division (of BAEx)
FAO/CP   -   Food and Agriculture Organization (of the U.N.) Cooperative
Programme
FNP      -   Food and Nutrition Plan
FNRI     -   Food and Nutrition Research Institute
IPB      -   Institute of Plant Breeding (of UPLB)
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture
NFAC     -   National Food and Agricultural Council (of MOA)
NFA      -   National Food Authority
NGA      -   National Grains Authority
NNC      -   National Nutrition Council
NSDB     -   National Science Development Board
PCARR    -   Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research
PMC      -   Project Management Committee (of MOA)
PMO      -   Project Management Office (of MOA)
PPD      -   Planning and Programming Division (of MOA)
RIARS    -   Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Station
UPLB     -   University of the Philippines, Los Banos Campus



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of the Philippines
Amount:          $45.0 million
Terms:           The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, with interest at 9,6 % p.a.
Project
Description: The proposed project seeks to strengthen and expand a wide
range of agricultural support services other than extension,
which is being supported under an ongoing Bank-financed
National Extension Project. The project finances research
on plant breeding, particularly on crops other than rice,
and also on small-farm systems to develop technology which
would effectively integrate crops and backyard livestock. It
aims to improve the plant and livestock regulatory services of
the Ministry of Agriculture and strengthen the Ministry's
capability to plan, prepare and implement projects. It is
expected that the expanded services will raise agricultural
productivity and output, and will enhance rural incomes,
particularly of small farmers. Through support of the second
nationwide nutrition survey, the project will also strengthen
the data base for the Government's Food and Nutrition Plan.
Although the project's benefits do not lend themselves to
precise quantification, a large proportion of the country's
2.35 million farm units could benefit from it, at a relatively
small average cost per farm family.
Risks associated with the proposed project are related to two
main issues: (a) the implementation; and (b) the impact of
the project. Firstly, a number of recently reorganized and
decentralized institutions will be responsible for implement-
ing a wide range of subprojects and the accomplishment of pro-
ject objectives may thus be delayed since the recent reorgan-
ization has yet to be tested.  In addition, the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), which will play a key role in coordinating
project implementation, has had relatively little experience
in implementing foreign-assisted projects. However, the
various project components are not closely interdependent, and
while the performance of some MOA agencies could fall short of
expectations, this would not impair the effective implementa-
tion of other project components. The second risk is related
to the efficient dissemination of research results through
extension, and farmer acceptance of research recommendations,
both of which will be critical to the success of the project.
There is also a risk that improved research and regulatory
services may not raise farm production and productivity
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
as anticipated. However, farmers in the Philippines have a
good record of adopting new and innovative technologies, and
improvements are being made in the methods of disseminating
information under the National Extension Project. In
addition, experience indicates that benefits from research are
usually high, and substantial benefits are anticipated from
the increased production resulting from the combination of
livestock and crops in the small farm systems being developed
under the project.
Estimated                                          Local    Foreign    Total
Cost:                                            -         $ million ------
Agricultural Research                     19.3       10.3      29.6
Plant Regulatory Services                  3.4        1.8       5.2
Livestock Regulatory Services              2.6        5.7       8.3
Agricultural Planning                      2.5        0.6       3.1
Project Implementation                     4.2        4.7       8.9
National Nutrition Survey                  1.0        0.3       1.3
Base Cost Estimates                    33.0      23.4       56.4
Physical Contingencies                     4.0        2.9       6.9
Price Contingencies                        9.0        4.7      13.7
Total Project Cost                     46.0      31.0       77.0
Taxes                                      2.5       -          2.5
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)    43.5        31.0       74.5
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                      14.0      31.0       45.0
Government                                32.0          -      32.0
Total                                     46.0      31.0       77.0
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY:      FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
----------------- $ million ------------------
Annual                 0.6    2.8    8.1   11.1   10.7    8.8    2.9
Cumulative             0.6    3.4   11.5   22.6   33.3   42.1   45.0
Economic Rate of Return: N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 3378-PH, dated June 23, 1981.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of $45.0 million
to help finance an agricultural support services project.  The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9,62
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Domestic and
External Resources for Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the
Executive Directors under SecM79-822, dated November 16, 1979. A mission
visited the Philippines in 1979 to analyze the extent of poverty and review
policies affecting it. The mission's report, "Aspects of Poverty in the
Philippines: A Review and Assessment" (No. 2984-PH) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 1, 1980 under SecM80-919. The next economic
mission is planned for September 1981. Country data are given in Annex 1.
Performance in the 1970s
3.        During the 1970s, economic performance improved considerably,
raising the trend GNP growth rate to 6% at the end of the decade. The ratio
of fixed investment to GNP rose from 16% to 24% during this period. Half of
the increase in investment was in the public sector; the ratio of public
investment to GNP rose from 1.5% to 5.5% during the decade, reflecting
substantially expanded revenues and improved implementation capacity. Export
growth was accelerated, particularly in nontraditional manufactures, while
growth in imports of oil and consumer goods was restrained. Overall, expan-
sion in agricultural production was quite rapid, and foodgrain deficits were
eliminated in the second half of the decade. Population growth was also
slowed in the 1970s. However, the economy still has a number of structural
problems. Most importantly, the efficiency of investment has been low,
particularly in manufacturing industry producing for the domestic market;
industrial employment has not expanded rapidly enough; and poverty is still
widespread.
4.        The economy's structural problems are reflected in its balance of
payments. Improvements achieved in the early 1970s were more than offset
by a sharp deterioration of the Philippines' terms of trade since 1975,
stemming from the oil price increases, accelerated international inflation,



- 2 -
and depressed prices for major export commodities.  Consequently, the
Philippines has had to rely heavily on foreign borrowings to finance the
imports needed to maintain growth and investment levels. To hold the
external deficit at a sustainable level in the coming years, additional
structural adjustments in the balance of payments will have to be achieved
through reduced dependence on imported oil, increased efficiency of
investment, and improved performance of the industrial sector.
Development Strategy                                                                          r
5.         The Government's Development Plan for 1978-82 has as objectives the
rapid expansion of productive employment; improvements in economic, social and
regional equity; and provision for the basic needs of the population.  The
agricultural strategy emphasizes food production, crop diversification, and
stronger linkages with processing industries. The industrial strategy calls
for promotion of export industries, development of small- and medium-scale
industries, regional dispersion of industrial growth, increased efficiency
of investment, and selected large-scale projects. The Plan includes social
development targets in education, housing, health, and family planning. In
addition, the Plan outlines development strategies for each of the country's
13 regions. A recently completed Food and Nutrition Plan, which complements
the Development Plan, aims at eliminating malnutrition by 1990 through
increased food production and nutrition programs.
6.         The Development Plan elaborates the policy directions pursued by
the Government in recent years and is broadly in line with the Bank's
assessment of the country-s development priorities. In view of changes in
the international economy, the Government has recently revised the Plan,
reducing the target of GNP growth for 1981-82 from 8% to 6%.
Macro Issues for the 1980s
7.        As noted above, the Philippines faces several fundamental long-
standing development problems which will need increased attention during the
1980s. The four most important of these are reduction of population growth,
poverty alleviation, employment generation, and increased efficiency of
investment.
8.         Population Growth.  The Philippines has achieved an impressive
reduction in population growth from 3% in 1970 to about 2.4% in 1980./l
Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still strairning available land
resources, aggravating already serious employment and poverty problems, and
burdening the public budget with a high growth in demand for basic public
services.  Further reduction of population growth is, therefore, vital for
the country-s development. The Philippines has an active family planning
program which has expanded rapidly during the 1970s. Participation in the
family planning program is still low by East Asian standards, and the number
/1 This figure is based on a more recent survey than the Annex I data.



- 3 -
of new acceptors has reached a plateau as the program has faced the
increasingly difficult problem of extending into rural areas.
9.        Poverty Alleviation.  Despite satisfactory economic growth during
the 1970s, the incidence of poverty remains high at 40-45%.  Income distri-
bution continues to be very skewed, and there is a small elite which is
conspicuously wealthy. Regional disparities remain pronounced, with the
incidence of poverty reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions. Large
numbers of people, especially in the rural areas, which account for about 80%
of the poor, still suffer from malnutrition and lack safe water, basic
education and health facilities. An increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio,
the resulting expansion of cultivation into marginal lands, limited employment
opportunities in the industrial sector, and the sharp deterioration in the
external terms of trade have put downward pressure on real incomes. Although
the Government instituted several programs during the 1970s that should
directly improve the lives of the poor, most of these were implemented on a
large scale only toward the end of the decade and will require several years
to achieve a marked impact. Key steps needed to alleviate poverty will be the
development of rainfed agriculture, more balanced regional development, rapid
expansion of manufacturing employment, continued improvement in basic public
services, and further reduction of population growth.
10.       Employment Generation.  Growth of productive employment, partic-
ularly in the industrial sector, has lagged behind the rapid expansion of the
labor force, and considerable underemployment exists. During the 1970s, the
agriculture and service sectors had to absorb an excessively high proportion
of new entrants to the labor force. Manufacturing employment stagnated in the
first half of the decade, and picked up only slightly thereafter as
labor-intensive export production grew. Overseas employment, especially in
the Middle East, increased rapidly, providing a temporary income opportunity.
As the absorption capacity of the agricultural sector is limited, employment
generation in manufacturing will have to increase considerably in the 1980s.
11.       Efficiency of Investment.  While private and public investment rose
sharply during the last decade and have reached reasonable levels, the
accompanying expansion of the economy's real output has been relatively low.
In addition, the low rate of industrial job creation indicates that, on
average, investment has not been labor-intensive enough. The low efficiency
and labor-intensity of investment have been caused by the distortive effects
of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on the allocation of
capital. In view of tight resource constraints to be faced in the 1980s, the
efficiency and labor-intensity of investment will be critical determinants of
future growth in output and employment.
Sectoral Issues
12.       The Philippines  macro-economic performance reflects achievements
and problems at the sectoral level. The more important of these are
summarized below for the agricultural, industrial, and energy sectors.



- 4 -
13.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation among subsectors, the trend growth rate of the
agriculture, fishery, and forestry sector was about 5% during the 1970s,
which is quite high by international standards. The Philippines, once a
chronic importer of rice, began to export modest quantities in 1977, and
rice self-sufficiency appears assured for the 1980s.  Production of fish and
nontraditional export crops, such as bananas and coffee, has also expanded
rapidly. However, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is of
critical importance for raising the incomes of the rural poor, has lagged                    a
behind. Technologies to increase yields of corn and feedgrains are still
under development, as are multiple cropping systems. Productivity in the
important coconut export sector is low because of a large number of overage
trees, although a major coconut replanting program is scheduled for the early
1980s. Furthermore, population pressure on the arable land is steadily
increasing, and soil erosion in hilly areas that have been logged over or
settled is a serious problem.
14.       The Government has provided substantial support for rural develop-
ment. Agricultural production has benefitted from the introduction of high-
yielding varieties, improved credit, extension, and irrigation programs.
Rural infrastructure programs in water supply, electrification and health
services have also been expanded significantly. An agrarian reform of rice
and corn land, instituted in 1972, is well advanced.
15.        While these programs have achieved considerable improvements, the
gains have been uneven among regions, crops, and farming systems. Difficult
issues remain to be addressed if the living conditions of the rural poor are
to be improved. Solutions to the interrelated problems of low incomes and
poor soils in marginal settlements will require the development of tree
cropping and mixed farming technologies, resolution of land tenure questions,
and substantial upgrading of the administrative capability of the agencies
concerned. Steps are also needed to reduce the incidence of poverty among
subsistence fishermen, coconut farmers, and sugar cane workers.
16.        Industry.  Although industrial and trade policies were improved in
the early 1970s, manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as
GDP, and its growth pattern remained unsatisfactory during the decade.
Excessive protection and artificially low cost of capital have led to low
efficiency of investment and stagnation of manufacturing employment in
industries producing for the domestic market.  The introduction of export
promotion measures in the early 1970s did lead to extremely rapid growth in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, which rose from about $50 million in
1970 to $2.1 billion in 1980. Nontraditional manufactures now account for
one-third of the country-s total exports. However, the export expansion has
been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the rest of the
economy have been limited due to the high cost and low quality of domestic
inputs. Consequently, nontraditional manufacturing export industries have
developed as an outward-looking enclave in an otherwise heavily protected
economy.



-5-
17.       The objectives of the Government's industrial policy are to
accelerate growth of output and employment, sustain the high growth of manu-
factured exports, reduce import dependence of domestic industry, improve the
efficiency of investment, and promote industrial development outside the
Manila area. Since industries producing for the domestic market still
account for more than 80% of manufacturing investment, output, and employ-
ment, restructuring of home industries as well as continued export expansion
are needed to achieve these objectives.  In 1979, the Government initiated a
series of fundamental policy reforms designed to improve the performance of
the industrial sector.   The first phase of the reform program, which is
currently being implemented, focuses on strengthening of export incentives
and reduction of protection through tariff reform and liberalization of
import licensing. The Government is preparing a second phase of reforms that
will address shortcomings in the investment incentives and promotion system as
well as restructuring of industries which have to adjust to a more
competitive environment.
18.       Energy.  Another sector critical for the success of the Philippines-
structural adjustment effort is the energy sector. Since the 1973-74 oil
price increase, the Philippines has made a considerable effort to reduce its
dependency on imported oil. Demand restraint - largely through pricing and
taxing measures - held the growth rate of energy consumption one percentage
point below that of GDP.  Steps to increase and diversify domestic energy
supply have included the development of hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and
nuclear energy. Limited domestic petroleum production also began in 1979.
However, due to the long gestation period of energy projects, domestic
energy production still constituted only 18% of total commercial energy
consumption in 1980. In response to the "second oil crisis", the Government
is accelerating its program for domestic energy production but further
taxing and pricing initiatives will also be needed to restrain demand.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and Allocation
19.       Domestic Savings and the Financial Sector.  During the 1970s, gross
domestic savings expanded considerably, reaching 24% of GNP and financing
about 80% of total investment. However, the savings ratio needs to rise by
another 2-3% of GNP in order to maintain investment levels while simultan-
eously limiting the current account deficit and the country's reliance on
foreign savings. In addition, interest rates and other financial incentives
affecting the labor-intensity and efficiency of investment, the flexibility
and competitiveness of the financial system, and the maturity of lending all
needed to be increased. Hence, in 1980-81 the Government introduced a
comprehensive set of financial reforms. Interest rates are being substan-
tially decontrolled and revised monetary, fiscal, and rediscount policies are
being introduced. Legislation to encourage multipurpose banking has also
been adopted to reduce the present excessive specialization and fragmentation
of the financial system and to increase competition.
20.        Public Finance.  During the 1970s, the Government has raised the
overall level of public expenditures by 5% of GNP and has increased the shares



- 6 -
going to economic services and investment. Toward the end of the decade,
total government expenditures reached an estimated 17% of GNP, with public
investment equalling about 5.5% of GNP. The expansion of public expenditures
has made possible improvements in basic infrastructure, particularly in
transportation, power and irrigation, as well as expanded programs in urban
development, health and family planning. At present, the size of the public
investment program is appropriate, and its composition is, with a few
exceptions, broadly consistent with th-j country's development priorities.
21.        In the last few years, however, public investment has been cons-
trained by the availability of resources, outdated contracting regulations
and rigid budget execution procedures which were introduced in anticipation
of a tight revenue situation.  Problems were particularly acute during the
period of high inflation in 1979 and 1980, and they caused the Government
actually to underspend its capital budget. As resource constraints are likely
to remain tight during the next decade, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
22.       The rapid expansion of public expenditures has been made possible
by a program of systematic tax reform. The proportion of revenue coming from
domestic taxes has been raised through increases in indirect taxes and
improved collection, thus reducing dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on
international trade. The tax ratio was raised by two percentage points to
13.6% of GNP during the decade but has remained about constant in the last few
years. Continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by the Government and
government corporations, will be necessary to finance further expansion in
infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms are needed to raise
the elasticity of the revenue system, to improve its equity by increasing
the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to eliminate
remaining distortions in economic incentives.
Balance of Payments Adjustment and External Capital Requirements
23.       The 1979-80 oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraints for the Philippines. The share of oil
in total merchandise imports increased from under 12% in the early 1970s to
over 25% in 1980. The current account deficit widened to an estimated
$2.2 billion in 1980, equivalent to 6.1% of GNP. If growth and investment
rates are to be maintained, accelerated structural adjustments in the economy
and the balance of payments have become essential to hold the external deficit
at a sustainable level. Considerable reforms have already been introduced
with respect to trade, industrial, and financial policies (see paras. 17 and
19), and improvements are under consideration in energy policy.  Additional
policy measures will be needed in these areas as well as resource mobilization
and investment programming. Implementation of necessary adjustment measures
should make it possible to sustain economic growth at 6.0-6.5%, mainly through
improved performance of the industrial sector. However, policy measures will
require a number of years to effect the needed structural improvement in the



- 7 -
balance of payments.  The current account deficit, therefore, is expected to
widen further in nominal terms while declining in relative terms to about 4%
of GNP in the mid-1980s.
24.       The Philippines raised its external borrowing sharply to finance the
balance of payments deficits incurred after the 1973-74 oil price increase.
During the second half of the 1970s, net disbursements from medium- and long-
term loans doubled to an estimated $1.1 billion in 1980.  Despite substantial
borrowing, the debt service ratio stood at only 17% in 1980, largely because
of the rapid expansion in export earnings. Substantial additional foreign
capital will be needed during the period of adjustment to the 1979-80 oil
price increase, and net disbursements from medium- and long-term loans will
have to double again in the next five years. If the Philippines can sustain
the strong export performance of the recent past, the debt service ratio would
still remain in the range of 18%-20% in the mid-1980s.
25.       Official sources are expected to provide about 40% of the
Philippines' gross external capital in the early 1980s. The last Consultative
Group Meeting, held in January 1981, agreed that it would be reasonable for
the Philippines to seek official development assistance (ODA) of about $1.2
billion during 1981, a slight increase over the ODA commitments it received in
1980.
26.       As noted above, satisfactory progress has been made in domestic
resource mobilization. However, because the deterioration in the terms of
trade has increased the Philippines' external financing requirements, and many
projects planned for ODA have low foreign exchange costs, the necessary
resource transfer can be achieved only through some financing of local costs
of projects and non-project lending.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
27.       As of May 31, 1981, the Philippines had received 75 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,815.7 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled $108.6
million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and outstanding
is currently about 15%, and its share in total debt service is about 7%.
These ratios are expected to be about 13% and 9%, respectively, by 1985.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC investments as
of May 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 8 -
28.       The volume of annual World Bank lending to the Philippines has
increased substantially from an average of about $90 million in FY71-75 to an
average of $420 million in FY77-81. Although the Bank has financed projects
in virtually all sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to
agriculture, which has accounted for more than one-third of total Bank/IDA
lending. Another fifth of Bank lending has been for the transportation sec-
tor. Lending for power, industry, and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. The sectoral allocation of Bank lending remained fairly stable
throughout the 1970s.  Pronounced changes took place only within infrastruc-
ture as lending for transportation and power declined in the second half of
the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban development was initiated
during this period.
29.       Within sectors, however, considerable changes have taken place in
Bank lending.  In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice
production. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development projects. In the
industrial and financial sectors, the Bank initially concentrated on streng-
thening individual development finance institutions and on providing for the
credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years, however,
industrial and financial lending has been to support the implementation of
needed policy reforms. A structural adjustment loan was made in September
1980 in support of trade and industrial reforms. Improvements in financial
sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial Finance Loan, which
also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden the reach of Bank
lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank.
30.       W4hile overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than antici-
pated, and implementation problems increased in the late 1970s. These diffi-
culties, in part, reflect administrative problems caused by high inflation and
tight budget constraints (para. 21). They also result from the changes in the
scope of the Bank's lending operations: a substantial increase in the number
of projects, new areas of lending, an emphasis on institution-building, and
efforts to reach specific target groups and deprived regions have all made
implementation a more demanding task than in the past. A project
iiaplerentation review was held in May 1980, and steps have subsequently been
taken to correct some of the administrative problems. Another implementation
review is planned for the end of this year.
31.       The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist in
achieving the major objectives of the Government's Development Plan (para. 5).
Particular emphasis is being given to supporting poverty alleviation efforts
and to bringing about needed structural adjustments in the economy. Economic
and sector work is being closely integrated with lending operations. Future
project, sector, and structural adjustment loans will be designed to address



- 9 -
the wide variety of technical, institutional, and policy issues facing the
Philippines. Additional structural adjustment loans are planned to support
further reforms in trade, industry, and other key policy areas. In sectoral
terms, agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the
largest share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to
increase the incomes of the rural poor.  Substantial assistance will be given
to industry through subsector loans aimed at restructuring or developing
specific subsectors; through increased financial and technical assistance to
small and medium industries, particularly outside the Metro-Manila area; and
through continued industrial finance projects utilizing the recently
introduced "apex" concept. Increased effort is also planned over the next
several years to develop domestic energy resources and to strengthen the
institutions responsible for developing and managing energy supplies. The
Bank's support for projects in education, health, family planning, and urban
development will aim at improving basic services and supporting employment
creation, particularly in less advanced areas of the country.
32.       This is the first loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for national fisheries develop-
ment and textile sector rehabilitation have been appraised and are scheduled
for Board presentation later in the fiscal year.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sectoral Highlights and Problems
33.       Agriculture is the main source of livelihood for over 30 million
people, some 70% of the population, who live in the rural areas. It accounts
for 30% of GNP, employs over half the nation's labor force, and contributes
60% of foreign exchange earnings. The total cultivated area is about
9 million ha, of which 1.2 million ha are irrigated, mainly for rice
production. Of the nonirrigated area, some 5 million ha are used for growing
cereals, principally rice and corn, and the remainder is planted to rainfed
annual and perennial crops, including such important export crops as
sugarcane and coconuts.
34.       While the share of agriculture in GDP has declined during the past
decade, in absolute terms production has risen steadily. From 1970 to 1979
the overall annual increase in agricultural production averaged 5.3%; the
rise in food crop production averaged 6.0% a year; and the production of
rice - the staple food of most Filipinos - expanded at 4.7% annually. Produc-
tion increases, particularly of rice, were assisted by strong government ini-
tiatives, including substantial investments in irrigation infrastructure, and
the launching, in 1973, of a major campaign (Masagana 99) to increase rice
production by introducing high-yielding varieties and technical packages,



- 10 -
combined with extension and credit. The Philippines achieved self-
sufficiency in rice in 1977 and has since been a small net exporter.  However,
efforts to achieve self-sufficiency in other crops, particularly corn, which
is an important staple food in some parts of the country as well as a major
source of animal feed, have been less successful.  While encouraging strides
have been made in the private sector in introducing high-yielding, disease-
resistant varieties of corn, the delivery system to extend this improved
technology to large numbers of small farms is not yet in place. Productivity
in the coconut sector is also relatively low because of a large number of
over-age trees. A replanting program is scheduled to start in the early
1980s when a sufficient number of high-yielding seedlings will become
available. Production of fish and nontraditional export crops such as
bananas and coffee has expanded rapidly.
35.        The national demand for livestock protein is expected to increase
by about 40% between 1978 and 1985, compared with an estimated population
increase of about 25%. Annual growth rates in the commercial production of
pigs and poultry have kept ahead of overall demand for meat during recent
years, but the growth in the number of cattle and water buffalo (carabao)
has been much lower. In recent years, the rapid growth of pig and poultry
production has been sustained by a heavy reliance on imported feedstuffs,
with adverse consequences for the country's import bill. The Government has
taken steps to encourage livestock producers to move to a domestic feed
regime, including an ongoing village cattle dispersal program aimed at
increasing "backyard" production based on crop residues and other local feed
materials.
36.       The Philippines has 2.35 million farm units, 85% of which are
smaller than 5 ha.  The national average farm size is 3.6 ha.  Owing to
population pressure, a growing number of people have migrated to areas with
limited agricultural potential which are poorly served by infrastructure and
public services. The cultivation of such areas, typically hilly and of
poor fertility, and including large tracts of land which, for conservation
reasons, are officially designated as forest areas, has not only failed to
generate an acceptable level of income for the people concerned, but is also
causing serious ecological damage. The development of agro-forestry programs
which reconcile the needs of people who have little choice except to open up
marginal areas for cultivation with the overall environmental concerns of
the country, has high priority. A serious effort to remove the uncertainties
of land tenure should be an important element in any such program.
37.        While the country's irrigated area has grown steadily, and ongoing
and planned investments will continue this trend with resulting benefits to
the farmers concerned, the position of rainfed farmers remains largely weak
and uncertain. In Iloilo, the Government has launched the first project for
multiple cropping in rainfed areas (para. 52).  The Government is considering
multiple cropping projects in other parts of the country, but further work
needs to be done to identify the most suitable areas and to undertake the
needed basic and adaptive research in order to create a foundation for such
projects.



- 11 -
38.       As many as 40% of rural families are believed to earn incomes below
the level required to meet minimum nutrition needs. Although the average
Filipino diet provides 89% of food energy requirements, more than 30% of all
households consume diets with less than 80% energy adequacy. This problem
is particularly serious for pre-school children, of whom about 22% are
moderately or severely malnourished. Several experimental nutrition programs
have been launched in an attempt to alleviate the problem.
Government Strategy
39.       During the past decade the Government's agricultural policies were
directed principally toward the objectives of self-sufficiency in rice and
corn, the stabilization of staple food prices, the formulation of programs to
serve the needs of people in less favorable areas, the promotion of exports
and the replacement of imports, and the improvement of the nutritional
standards of the population. The Government provided substantial support for
agricultural production through credit, extension, research and irrigation,
and policy objectives have already been achieved in some measure. Expanded
rural development programs such as water supply, electrification and health
have also been initiated.
40.       The Government now intends to broaden its objectives to provide a
basis for an integrated agricultural strategy. A step in this direction was
the publication in December 1980 of the Government's Food and Nutrition Plan
(FNP), which was presented to the Philippines Consultative Group meeting in
January 1981. The FNP was prepared primarily by the Ministry of Agricul-
ture, witlh technical assistance from the Bank, and will serve as a framework
for future planning by the Ministry. The three key objectives of FNP are:
(a) to increase and diversify production of food and other agricultural
commodities, by raising the productivity of both land and labor; (b) to
improve the diet of all Filipinos; and (c) to assure a basic minimum diet
for those who are undernourished. The strategy for achieving these
objectives is to: (a) stimulate food production to ensure availability of
requisite food supplies, and generate additional employment and increased
income to provide purchasing power, especially to the deprived population
group; (b) increase export earnings and produce local substitutes for
agricultural imports; (c) maintain consumer and producer food prices at
reasonable levels; and (d) direct intervention to correct the most urgent
nutritional deficiencies and prevent malnutrition.
41.       The programs and projects to be launched in the 1980s would reflect
the objectives and strategy of the FNP. Substantial investments would be
needed in various activities, including agricultural research, as a means of
removing the technical, economic and social constraints on production and
productivity. At the same time, there is a need to improve the capability
of institutions concerned with planning, programming, implementation,
monitoring and regulation in the sector. The policy-making and coordinating
agency for nutrition programs, including those sponsored by MOA, is the
National Nutrition Council (NNC), created in 1974.



- 12 -
Agricultural Services
42.       Government institutions concerned with agriculture in the
Philippines are primarily responsible for policy formulation and planning,
the provision of infrastructure, the generation and testing of technology,
the promotion of proven technology through the extension service, promo-
tional and regulatory activities concerning crops and livestock, and the
stabilization of the grain and export trade. The Government also provides a
substantial part of the rural credit directly through government-owned
institutions, and by channeling public funds through privately-owned banking
institutions.
43.       Within the Government, responsibility for the agricultural sector
is divided among a number of ministries and associated agencies. Responsi-
bility for crop- and livestock-related research, planning, regulation and
promotion is assigned to the MOA. The National Irrigation Administration
(NIA), an agency of the Ministry of Public Works, is responsible for all
national irrigation programs, while the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR)
is responsible for fisheries, forestry, land classification, some soil
conservation, and the leasing of public lands. The transfer of land to
former tenants is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agrarian Reform.
44.       The agricultural sector is also served by a number of autonomous
agencies which, although not part of MOA, have governing bodies presided
over by the Minister of Agriculture who thus influences their operations.
Among these agencies are authorities for individual crops (e.g., tobacco,
cotton, abaca), and those which have responsibility for policy formulation,
oversight or review of services affecting the agricultural sector (Fertilizer
and Pesticide Authority, Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit).
The export marketing of coconut products and sugar is controlled by
government corporations.
45.       The private sector also plays an important role in serving agricul-
ture by importing, producing, and distributing fertilizers, pesticides,
feedstuffs and veterinary supplies through more than 2,000 licensed dealers
operating, competitively and efficiently, with retail outlets in every
municipality of the country. Some dealers also advance credit for farm
inputs. The private sector plays the major role in purchasing, processing,
and distributing marketed farm products. Even where government commodity
agencies exist, such as the National Food Authority or the Philippine Coconut
Authority, private traders often act as intermediaries between farmers and
the agencies concerned. The recently created National Food Authority (NFA),
which has superseded the National Grains Authority (NGA), influences the
marketing and pricing of foodgrains and operates selected marketing
facilities for other agricultural products.  However, the precise nature of
NFA's activities and programs (other than those inherited from NGA) have not
yet been announced.



- 13 -
Ministry of Agriculture
46.       The MOA was formerly organized around five bureaus:  the Bureau of
Plant Industry (BPI); the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI); the Bureau of
Agricultural Extension (BAEx); the Bureau of Soils (BS); and the Bureau of
Agricultural Economics (BAEcon)./l A major reorganization of MOA was
authorized by Presidential Decree 1579 of June 1978. As part of the
reorganization, 12 regional offices of MOA, each headed by a Regional
Director of Agriculture, were established in 1980. These took over most of
the functions of the bureaus in their regions, and the Manila-based bureaus
are now largely advisory. The respective duties of staff in MOA central and
regional offices and the bureaus are set out in Administrative Order No. 2,
Series of 1981, which has been signed recently by the Minister of Agricul-
ture with the concurrence of the Minister of the Budget. The reorganization
of MOA has now been fully carried out, although its effectiveness remains to
be tested. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that in the event that
major changes are required in PD 1579 or in Administrative Order No. 2, the
Bank would be consulted (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan Agreement).
47.       Although the Ministry of Agriculture has responsibilities extending
throughout the country and has a large staff, its operations have been handi-
capped by a shortage of funds for its various activities such as research,
planning, promotion and demonstration. MOA has also had difficulty in
attracting high-calibre personnel for some of its technical/scientific
positions, because of its inability to pay competitive salaries,/2 and in
using them fully because of a shortage of equipment and vehicles. MOA shares
responsibility for agricultural development with other ministries, and the
mechanism for interagency coordination needs to be strengthened. The Bank is
assisting the Government to start to address this problem by sponsoring a
series of inter-agency seminars, the first of which was held during 1980.
MOA's planning functions have been handled by the three divisions of its
planning service: Project Development and Evaluation (PDED), Project
Planning and Programming (PPD), and Special Studies (SSD). The preparation
of projects for external financing is handled by the Agricultural Project
Preparation Unit (APPU), which was created under the Bank-assisted Smallholder
Treefarming and Forestry Project (loan 1506-PH). MOA has recently taken steps
to bring together its planning, programming, and project preparation
capabilities by linking PDED with APPU in project preparation. PPD will be
/1  A sixth bureau, the Bureau of Cooperative Development (BCOP), was
transferred to MOA in 1980.
/2  The National Extension Project (para. 51) makes provision for consultants
to review salaries of Government extension personnel and recommend
revisions. A similar consultancy for research personnel is included in
the proposed project.



- 14 -
responsible for implementing the FNP, and SSD will become a policy-making
arm of the Ministry. SSD-s research (survey) function will be transferred
to BAEcon.
Agricultural Research
48.       Traditionally, agricultural research in the Philippines has focused
on rice, in which it has benefited from the work of the International Rice
Research Institute.  More recently, research on other key crops, including
corn, has been increased but a bigger research effort is needed on the many
other crops and livestock products which have potential, particularly
focussed on small-farm systems. An Agricultural Research Office (ARO) was
established in MOA in 1980 to coordinate, monitor and evaluate MOA national
and regional research, and to coordinate programs contracted outside MOA.
The ARO has a Director and two Assistant Directors for Operations and
Research and a small technical staff drawn from the Bureaus.
49.       Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research (PCARR).
Agricultural research outside MOA is conducted by many universities and
other institutions. Government funds, including foreign aid, earmarked for
agricultural research, are allocated by PCARR which is attached to the
National Science Development Board (NSDB) under the Office of the President.
The chairman of the NSDB is chairman of PCARR, and the Ministers of
Agriculture and Natural Resources are Vice Chairmen.
50.       University of the Philippines, Los Banos (UPLB).  The College of
Agriculture in UPLB was established in 1909 as one of the first two colleges
of the University. It is now a reputed national and Asian center for higher
education, research and training in all fields related to agriculture and
rural development. The core of the UPLB research complex is the Institute of
Plant Breeding (IPB), established in 1975, which has undertaken some
impressive work on the development, testing, and multiplication of new crop
varieties. ULPB's Department of Agronomy also has a good record in crop
research and is well placed to expand its programs complementing the work of
the IPB.
Experience with Past Lending
51.       MOA-Implemented Projects.    The Bank has to date supported two
projects (both ongoing) directly under MOA. The first, the FY79 National
Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH), aims to strengthen the extension service
through the provision of improved facilities, equipment, vehicles, incremental
technical staff and training. Implementation of the National Extension
Project is now the responsibility of the Regional Directors of Agriculture,
with BAEx coordinating its implementation throughout the country. After a
slow start, the project is gaining momentum. The purchase of vehicles and



- 15 -
equipment, the construction of extension centers, the appointment of new
staff and consultants, and the training of technicians and farmers, are under
way. Although substantial amounts of the loan have now been committed,
disbursements have lagged, principally because of unfamiliarity with loan
withdrawal procedures; efforts are under way to improve the situation.
52.       The Rainfed Agricultural Development (Iloilo) Project (Loan
1815-PH) is the second Bank-financed project being implemented by MOA. The
loan became effective only in June 1980 and is in the early stages of
implementation. The project supports the expansion of multiple cropping
technology, developed by MOA in cooperation with the International Rice
Research Institute (IRRI), in the lowland areas of Iloilo Province (Region
VI), where rice is grown in combination with a second rice crop and/or upland
crops.
53.       Experience with the MOA-implemented projects indicates that start-up
and management problems have caused implementation delays. This has been
taken into account in the design of the proposed project by ensuring
adequate start-up funds, the establishment of a strong project management
office and effective inter-agency coordination. Implementation should also
be assisted by the reorganization of MOA.
54.       Other Projects.  In addition to the projects which are being
implemented by the MOA, the Bank has for many years been supporting livestock
and crop development through credit projects. Among the credit projects
which have been completed are two livestock projects, funds for which were
channelled through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP), and three
rural credit projects through the Central Bank/rural banks. Project
completion reports have been prepared on the First Livestock Credit project
and the first three Rural Credit projects. The lessons learned concerned
mainly the need for institutional strengthening, which have been taken into
account in designing the ongoing Third Livestock/Fisheries credit project,
and the desirability of providing a package of credit to support a variety
of farming activities rather than a single purpose credit, which is being
addressed in the proposed project with its emphasis on research on whole
farm systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
55.       The proposed project was prepared by the Agricultural Project Pre-
paration Unit (APPU) of MOA with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme, and was appraised in May 1980. A post-appraisal was undertaken
in October 1980 in order to accommodate changes in some components proposed
by the Government after appraisal. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. on May 21 and 22, 1981. The Philippines' negotiating team was led by



- 16 -
Deputy Minister Manuel Q. Lim, Jr. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 3378-PH,
dated June 24, 1981, is being circulated separatelv. Supplementary data are
provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
56.       The project will improve and expand agricultural research and
regulatory services through the MOA's network of agencies and through two
outside organizations to raise the productivity of the crop and livestock                   4
subsectors. The project complements the Bank-financed National Extension
Project (para. 51). A major focus of the project is integrated small farm
systems research, aimed at developing new and innovative farming practices
to assist small farmers. On a broader front, the project aims to enhance
significantly the contribution of qualified staff in the concerned agencies
which has until now been limited by a lack of equipment, material and
opportunities for advanced training, and to improve the policy formulation
and planning capability of MOA.
Project Description
57.       Over a six-year period, the project would provide funds to:
(i) strengthen agricultural research, particularly on crops other than rice
and on small farm systems; (ii) upgrade nine existing research stations into
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARs) to undertake the
testing of technology applicable to small farm systems; (iii) improve and
expand MOA's crop and livestock regulatory services; (iv) strengthen MOA's
capability for planning, preparing and implementing projects, and for
conducting special studies on food and nutrition and on the rural economy,
through funding of incremental staffing and training; and (v) support the
second National Nutrition Survey. As a result of MOA's decentralization
(para. 46), responsibility for implementing many project components will now
devolve upon its Regional Offices. However, MOA will retain a key role in
project implementation.
Project Components
58.       Agricultural Research (US$29.6 million).  The project would
support both basic research (technology generation) and applied research
(technology verification), and would fund the ARO which oversees all MOA's
research activities (para. 48). Technology generation would include
research on plant breeding in food and feed crops to facilitate diversified
production, and research into small farm systems aimed at integrating
backyard livestock and vegetable growing with annual and perennial crops,
including tree crops. Plant breeding work would be carried out by UPLB
(para. 50). Funds for technology testing would develop MOA's capacity to
undertake applied agricultural research, particularly the testing of new
or modified small farm systems, before they are recommended for farmer
use. A small share of the project funds earmarked for agricultural



- 17 -
research would be allocated to PCARR (para. 49) to improve the flow of
technical information from the research centers to the extension service and
other users.
59.       At present, MOA has research stations in all of the country's 12
regions undertaking a limited range of research on crops and livestock and
also some field testing. However, the stations are not adequately equipped.
Since the testing of small farm systems technology needs integrated
facilities to deal with crops, soils, livestock and farm management, funds
would be provided under the project to upgrade nine of the stations into
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARS), one in each of
nine /1 Regions. The RIARS would test not only the small farm systems
technology developed by the stations themselves, but also innovations from
other institutions within the PCARR network. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that MOA would, by January 31, 1982, establish the 12
RIARS, and appoint a manager for each of them (Section 3.10(a) and 3.11(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       Agricultural Regulatory Services ($13.5 million).  The project
would upgrade MOA's existing plant and livestock regulatory services. These
services include commodity and feed analysis, plant certification, livestock
and plant quarantine, livestock field services, disease diagnosis, and
vaccine production and quality control. The project would provide additional
staff, new and improved facilities, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance
and training.
61.       Agricultural Planning ($4.4 million).  The project would continue
to support the project preparation work of the combined APPU-PDED unit
(para. 47) in MOA. The unit would assist in the transfer of planning
capability from the former Bureaus to the new Regional Offices and assist in
the formulation of a regional development program in each region; and help
to formulate new projects mainly designed to achieve the objectives of FNP
(para. 40). The project would provide funds for a series of surveys and
studies on the rural economy, to be carried out by BAEcon (para. 46) working
in association with MOA's new Regional Offices. It would also fund a second
nationwide nutrition survey, which would strengthen the base for implementing
FNP, to be carried out by the Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI).
62.       Project Implementation ($8.9 million).  Because of the large scope
of the project and MOA's relative lack of experience in implementing
Bank-assisted projects, a special Project Management Office (PMO) has been
created and would be funded under the project. The project would fund: PMO-s
/1 The designated regions are Regions II, IV, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and
XII. RIARS in Regions III and VI are being funded from other sources,
and technical assistance is provided under the project to select and
design a site for Region I, which will also be funded from other sources.



- 18 -
administrative unit; conversion of the Ministry's aeroplane to use turboprop
fuel; studies bearing on FNP; agribusiness promotion activities; and
training. Since the project would expand many programs within MOA, for which
existing staff would be reassigned from their present duties, new demands
would be made on the professional skills of the staff concerned. Staff
training and retraining would constitute an important part of the project,
with approximately 40% of MOA staff benefiting from graduate, nondegree or
refresher course training.
Organization and Management
63.       The MOA would have responsibility for the major part of the
project, the exceptions being the UPLB and FNRI components. Implementation
of MOA components would be by the Project Management Office (PMO) (para. 62)
working through three Bureaus and the 12 new Regional Offices. Funds for
UPLB (para. 58) and FNRI (para. 61) would be passed directly to those
organizations by the Ministry of the Budget (MOB). PMO would be under the
control of the Project Manager who has already been appointed. The Project
Manager would answer to a Project Management Committee (PMC) comprising the
Minister or a Deputy Minister as Chairman, with the Project Manager,
appropriate Assistant Secretaries in MOA, and a representative of MOB as
members. It is a condition of loan effectiveness that PMC be established
(Section 3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). PMC would approve funding
for all MOA-based research.
64.       The PMO would be directly responsible for the aircraft conversion
(para. 62), for all training under the project (para. 62), and for monitoring
the progress of implementation by MOA agencies. It would also be responsible
for forwarding progress reports from UPLB and FNRI. The establishment of a
training unit within PMO is a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
3.07(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The terms of reference for the PMO
and for a monitoring unit to be established within it were agreed at
negotiations.
65.       The reorganization of MOA during 1980 has resulted in the reassign-
ment of many staff (para. 46). An assurance was obtained during negotiations
that MOA would finalize, by January 31, 1982, a staffing plan summarizing
the duties of all personnel, and their deployment between the Central Office,
the Bureaus, and Regional Offices as described in Administrative Order No. 2,
Series of 1981 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Agricultural Research.  The Agriculture Research Office (ARO)
(para. 48) of MOA would prepare MOA research programs for the approval of a
Research Coordinating Committee (RCC), to comprise the Minister or his
designate as Chairman, and the Director General of PCARR, the Bureau
Directors, and the Director of ARO as members. Three senior research
coordinators to liaise with the Regions would be appointed from MOA staff to



- 19 -
serve in ARO. ARO would channel funds for approved programs of small-farm
technology generation (para. 58) to PCARR for allocation to agencies in its
network, and would directly administer the testing of technology (para. 59)
on MOA research stations. The major responsibility for plant breeding
(para. 58) would rest with UPLB at its Institute of Plant Breeding (IPB).
Research on small farm systems (para. 58) would be carried out by the
Agronomy Department of UPLB in collaboration with IPB. UPLB would cooperate
with the Central Luzon State University, the Visayan State College of
Agriculture, and the University of Southern Mindanao to carry out the
program in their areas. The program would be subject to approval by a joint
MOA-UPLB Small Farm Systems Research Committee to be established under the
project.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)  RCC would be appointed by January 31, 1982 (Section 3.08(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b)  three coordinators would be appointed to ARO by January 31, 1982
(Section 3.11(c) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c)  UPLB would contract with the three universities to conduct small
farm systems research (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(d)  the Small Farm Systems Research Committee (SFSRC) would be
established by July 31, 1982 (Section 3.08(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement); and
(e)  annual technology generation testing programs, and UPLB's annual
small farm systems program, would be submitted to the Bank by
October 31 each year prior to submission to RCC and SFSRC
respectively (Section 3.15 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       Regional Research.  Programs for upgrading the RIARS would be
drafted in the regions and reviewed by the RCC before approval and funding
by the PMC. Research programs to be carried out in the RIARS will be
approved by regional research committees, which would be established under
the chairmanship of the Regional Director or his designate, to determine
regional research priorities, and would be endorsed by the RCC before being
submitted to the PMC for funding. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that 12 regional research committees responsible for regionally managed
research would be established by January 31, 1982 and that 12 regional
research coordinators would be appointed by the same date to act as
executive officers of the regional research committees (Sections 3.08(b) and
3.11(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       Regulatory Services.  Divisions of the Bureau of Plant Industry
(BPI) would be responsible for preparing final details of, and implementing,
the commodity analysis, plant certification and commodity quarantine
components of the project (para. 60). Plans would be cleared through the



- 20 -
Director of BPI, before being submitted through the PMO to the PMC for
funding. Since plant certification is a relatively new activity for BPI, the
existing, but expanded, Philippine Seed Board, chaired by the Director of
BPI, would be designated to review and approve proposals put forward by the
service. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the Philippine
Seed Board be so designated by July 31, 1982 (Section 3.08(e) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The relevant Divisions of the Bureau of Animal Industry
(BAI) would be responsible for preparing details of, and implementing, the
feed analysis, livestock quarantine, field services, disease diagnosis,
vaccine production and vaccine quality control components of the project
(para. 60) assisted as appropriate by the Regional Offices. Investment
plans would be reviewed by the Director of BAI and the relevant Regional
Directors before being submitted to the PMC for approval and funding.
69.       Agricultural Planning.  MOA project preparation would be the
responsibility of the APPU-PDED which are being linked (para. 47). The
combined unit would report to the PMC on project funded activities.. The
functional linkage of APPU and PDED and the appointment of a Chief are
conditions of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.09(a) and 3.11(e) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The capability of BAEcon to carry out the surveys of the
rural economy (para. 61) would be expanded through the transfer to BAEcon of
the survey and research functions of the Special Studies Division (SSD) of
MOA's Planning Service. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that
the transfer would take place by January 31, 1982 (Section 3.09(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). Proposals for the second national nutrition survey,
to be carried out by FNRI (para. 61), would be furnished through the PMO to
the Bank for its review and comments before the proposal is submitted to the
National Science and Development Board for approval. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the proposals would be provided to the Bank by
January 31, 1982 (Section 3.14 of the draft Loan Agreement).
70.       The Planning and Programming Division (PPD) would be responsible
for implementation of the project components supporting the FNP (para. 61).
The PPD would liaise with NEDA to ensure that FNP projects are compatible
with the national and regional plans of NEDA and that budgetary provision
for such plans is made by MOB. PPD would draw on expertise from the private
sector, as well as from within MOA, and an internationally-recruited advisor
would be appointed to assist PPD in planning its work and designing a series
of studies to determine effective measures to enhance the nutrition of
families in depressed areas, initially in six regions (para. 62).  PPD would
also be responsible for agribusiness activities under the project (para. 62).
Small regional agribusiness councils would be established to encourage
investments in commodity processing, and other enterprises, around the
country. It is a condition of loan effectiveness that MOA designates PPD to
be responsible for the food and nutrition and agribusiness activities of the
project (Section 3.10(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that one agribusiness council would be established
in each region by July 31, 1982 (Section 3.08(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 21 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
71.       The total project cost is estimated at $77 million, in 1981 prices,
including foreign exchange costs amounting to $31 million and identifiable
duties and taxes of $2.5 million. Physical contingencies included in the
above amount to 12% of base costs and are estimated at $6.9 million.  Price
contingencies for the local and foreign components are based on estimated
cost escalations amounting to 14% and 9%, respectively in 1981, 10% and 8.5%
in 1982, 8% (both) in 1983, 8% and 7.5% in 1984, 8% and 7% in 1985, and 8%
and 6% in 1986. Total price contingencies amount to $13.7 million or 22%
of the project's base cost and physical contingencies. Subsequent annual
recurrent costs due to the project, for which the Government would be
entirely responsible after the fifth year, would approximate $10.0 million,
inclusive of contingencies.
72.       The proposed loan of $45 million would contribute 60% of total
project costs, net of taxes, including $14 million of local costs./l
73.       Consultants  costs ($2.5 million) are based on an average monthly
cost of $8,000-$10,000 for foreign pers 1m<   (30 man-months) including fees,
travel and subsistence, and P 4,000-P 10,000 ($533-$1,333) for local
consultants (2,800 man-months, including 1,651 man-months for FNRI and FNP
activities). Special skills needed include a feed analytical chemist (six
months), veterinary pathologist (six months), veterinary microbiologist (six
months), veterinary immunologist (six months), veterinary virologist (six
months), agricultural sampling specialist (12 months), nutrition survey
methodologist (two months), nutritionist (two months), and food economist
(four months).
Procurement
74.       Principal items to be procured are civil works, equipment and
vehicles, specialized items such as laboratory equipment, and off-the-shelf
items such as office supplies. Civil works ($14.6 million) would include
construction of staff housing, laboratories, greenhouses, screenhouses,
fumigation rooms, machinery sheds, storage space, local access roads and
fences. In addition, there would be minor office renovations in the BPI and
BAI components. The civil works are scattered over the country and spaced
over the first three years of the project. For these reasons, and considering
the diverse specialized nature of the work, only contracts of $1.0 million
equivalent, or above, would be submitted to international competitive bidding.
Others would be carried out through local competitive bidding under procedures
satisfactory to the Bank, or by force account when local competitive bidding
is not feasible.
/1 See para. 26 for justification for local cost financing.



- 22 -
75.        Equipment ($10.3 million) and vehicles ($1.2 million) would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. A preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
76.        Specialized items and items purchased in small quantities, such as
laboratory equipment costing not more than $50,000 per item, but not
exceeding $2 million in aggregate, would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding advertised nationally in accordance with government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items such as office
supplies costing not more than $20,000 per item but not exceeding $500,000
in aggregate, would be purchased through prudent shopping, requiring at least
three quotations.
77.        Specialized internationally recruited consultants and local consul-
tancies costing $10,000 equivalent or above would be appointed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Their terms of reference would be
prepared by the Project Manager and submitted to the Bank before approval by
the PMC. Terms of reference for local consultancies costing less than $10,000
equivalent would be prepared by the Project Manager and approved by the PMC.
Reports of the latter local consultants would be examined regularly by Bank
project review missions.
Disbursements and Auditing
78.       Disbursements from the loan would cover:  (a) 80% of civil works
expenditures; (b) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported
equipments, materials, chemicals, and vehicles, 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured items, and 65% of expenditures for locally
procured items; and (c) 100% of total expenditure for consultants' services
and overseas training.
79.        Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account, and for
items costing less than $5,000 each purchased locally, would be made against
certified statements of expenditure; disbursements for other expenditures
would be made against full documentation. All statements of expenditure would
be reviewed and approved by the Project Manager prior to submission to the
Bank; supporting documents would be retained in the PMO and made available for
review by Bank supervision missions.
80.        Project implementing agencies, including MOA, PCARR, UPLB and FNRI,
would maintain separate accounts which would be audited annually by
independent auditors in line with procedures in other Bank-assisted projects.
MOA would submit certified copies of the audited accounts and auditors'
reports from the above agencies to the Bank no later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year. The auditors' reports would include a separate
opinion with regard to disbursements made against statements of expenditure.
An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 23 -
Project Benefits and Justification
81.       The main benefits from the project will include increased farm
productivity and incomes derived from improved small-farm systems, and
rehabilitated and improved regulatory services for plant and livestock.
Within MOA, agricultural planning and project preparation and management
capability to implement complex development projects would be enhanced, and
such expanded capability would extend to the new Regional Offices of MOA.
82.       Whereas the benefits of the ongoing National Extension Project
accrue mainly to rice producers, the proposed project would cover a much wider
range of enterprises and products: livestock, including pigs, goats, cattle,
poultry and water buffalo; annual crops, including corn, sorghum, sweet
potato, mungbean, soybean, peanut and cassava; and perennial crops, including
fruits and nuts, and wood yielding trees such as ipil-ipil (Leucaena sp.). A
large proportion of the nation's 2.35 million farm units could be affected by
the project, which would have some impact on most of the country's cultivated
farmland. The project would cost about $33 per farm family, or $9 per hectare
of farmed land.
83.       The project does not lend itself to conventional economic analysis
since neither the benefits likely to accrue from agricultural research and
improved support services, nor the speed at which they would materialize,
can be quantified accurately. However, relatively modest increases in
production due to the project would justify the expenditures involved.
For example, if incremental production attributable to the project from only
seven major annual crops were to reach $37 million at full project impact in
year 15, representing about a 5% increase in crop value above that without
the project, the economic rate of return would be 15%. Achievement of this
level of incremental production with the project appears feasible. If
incremental production of livestock and other crops which would benefit from
the project is also taken into account, a rate of return of 15% would be
feasible even if incremental production from the seven annual crops fell
short of the 5% increase noted above.
Risks
84.       Risks in this project are of two types:  the first concerns imple-
mentation, and the second impact. Implementation depends on the strengthening
of a large number of institutions - some of which have been reorganized
recently - which are pursuing a wide range of programs. Uncertainty regarding
the rate at which their performance would improve is unavoidable. While the
specific tasks that the agencies are called upon to undertake and their timing
seem realistic, performance with regard to some components could fall short of
expectations. However, while all the tasks are desirable for the agricultural
development of the Philippines, they are not all closely interdependent:
delay in one activity will not automatically lead to delays elsewhere.



- 24 -
85.        The risk of impact is that improved research and regulatory services
may not in fact raise farm production and productivity, or may not do so as
quickly as is expected. On the other hand, experience elsewhere indicates
that the benefits from research are usually large. This has certainly been
true of rice research in the Philippines. The probability is high that the
proposed project will yield benefits more than adequate to justify it.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Additional conditions of
effectiveness include: (a) the establishment of a Training Unit in the
Project Management Office; (b) the establishment of a Project Management
Committee; (c) the designation of the Planning and Programming Division of
the Planning Service to be responsible for the food, nutrition and
agribusiness promotion activities of the project; (d) the functional
linkage of the Project Development and Evaluation Division (PDED) of MOA's
Planning Service, and the Agricultural Project Preparation Unit (APPU) of
MOA; and (e) the appointment of a Chief of the merged PDED/APPU (Section
5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
87.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 23, 1981                                       By Ernest Stern



- 25 -                                              ANEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEzRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             300.0                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlUULTUIAL       90.8                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    15U.0        240.0      600.0                  1136.1                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        159.1        292.9     355.9                  1150.6                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27372.0        36852.0   46748.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3            32.9      35.8                    40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          75.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           125.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         91.2        122.3      155.8                   373.1                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    360.0          472.0      502.6                  2382.8                     94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCIURE (PERCENT)
0-i4 YRS.                           44.6         45.5       44.3                    39.8                     40.7
15-64 YRS.                           52.4         51.6       52.6                    56.7                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.0          2.9       3.1                     3.5                      4.0
POPULATIUN GROWTh RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.7         3.0         2.6                    2.3                      2.4
URBAN                                3.8           3.8       3.6                     3.8                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        45.7         39.2      34.4                    29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        15.6         10.8       8.2                      7.5                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          2.8       2.3                      1.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       191.7      650.0
USEkS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             2.0      37.0                    44.1
FOOD AND NUITRITION
INDEX OP' FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPUTA (1969-71-100)           102.0        101.0      114.0                   123.7                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     97.0        102.5      107.7                   112.6                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0         50.0       53.0                    62.5                     65.8
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0         20.0       21.0                    19.7                     34.0
ChILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        15.6          9.6       6.3                      4.8                     7.6
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRTU (YEARS)    51.0            57.3      61.6                    64.0                     64.1
INFANT mORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              98.0         80.0      65.0                    50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUIATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         36.0       43.0                    45.9                     65.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..       66.0                    68.0                     79.7
RUSAL                                  ..           ..      33.0                    34.4                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                            57.0       59.0                    53.4                     59.9
UkBAN                                 ..           ..       76.0                    71.0                     75.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..       44.0                    42.4                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ..           ..    2758.2                  4428.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..      3840.0    3115.3                   2229.7                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
lOTAL                             1134.1        821.8      558.0                   588.5                    471.2
URBAN                              536.2        392.7         ..                   579.6                    558.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         30.0         ..                   36.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.8          5.9
URBAN                                  ..          6.2
RURAL                                  ..          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          2.3
URBAN                                  ..          2.1
RURAL                                 ..           2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                16.5         23.2      36.0
URBAN                                 ..          60.4      82.0
RURAL                                  ..         6.8       10.0



- 26 -                                         ANE I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)!a
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCAlIUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0       114.0      105.0                  99.8                    101.7
MALE                 98.0        115.0     102.0                  100.6                    103.0
FEMALE               93.0        113.0     107.0                   98.8                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0        50.0       56.0                  53.5                     35.3
MALE                 28.0         59.0      65.0                   58.4                     34.9
FEMALE               25.0         42.0      47.0                   48.6                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  15.0           ..       34.0                  21.1                     30.1
PUPIL-TEAChER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        29.0       31.0                  34.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          27.0        33.0       36.0                  31.7                      15.7
ADULl LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6       88.4                   86.5                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         7.6       8.9                   12.7                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         21.9        46.6      43.5                  174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.9       19.1                  50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        13.6       21.2                  106.8                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            ..       7.6                   4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2      13478.1   16608.5
FE2ALE (PERCENT)                   34.4        33.1       32.3                  37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0        53.0       46.7                  50.2                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2        16.0       16.9                  21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6       35.5                  40.2                      31.8
MALE                                 52.1        48.6       47.6                   49.8                     49.0
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4       23.2                  31.1                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3       1.3                    1.1                      1.4
INCUME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS      ..        25.1
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      260.0/c
RURAL                                ..          ..      195.07W               193.7                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      266.0/c                  ..                   513.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      200.07c               234.3                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVEKTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..                   32.0/c
RURAL  -                             ..                   41.07W                32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1980.
Revised
June, 1981



-27 -                                                                        ANNE I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEIlNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note: 'Although the data ar  dean fto s..u.cees geteraly judged the most e-thoritstee eed reliable,  it should also ha  totd that they say tee be ietse-
e-ttuutlyuu-petbls eos f the lac  of.. sadertedi.defothestd eo..c.pte osed by diff fee.. tc...ttis It uollsetiog the data.   Tt. date are, ease-
thlo,  sflto desceth   tdee  ofegoftude, iodieas  steeds, aed ear                    --rietrl  maJor dtfferes.es bet,eetouet-es
Therefettuogeepese(I the se          . tutry getup of the sehir.te .. teuty ted (2)A esourtey group cloth sosiht htgher averge iotme that the  -stry getap
of the taJ.te  uotry(o-copt                  I r"oes  torylu  Oil  -op...ttet" groP ther  'Middla I-a... teeth Afrio- aed liddle gus" i, th... haes   f  --rg-r
seeio-ultsruleflhetles) . Ishe refree-   grop date the avrtgeear  popolatise  -eighead aritheetieet  for   th iedi-as- sod che.t tely abe
tajuteyof  he  uu,ete  tou gouphas dae  o  that   diodletu.  Shoe  th. eeaeof ...teuetiemeghe.eetoedeod   ceA aolhle    f data
tee ledettor tethes  soeg th  cousep aed rterete    grous.   -     od.-t..ht                                                    = M sily
LAND AREA (thb...aed sq.k..)                                                                      Populattue_pter  ep lNd-ttl uchac, I!           sodeat            I  Pptato   (steal.
T-1e-rTltutl-feteo g1utea   teue -pteperI,artpo   estsl                                           aIlble tpoite td priva             -t2.teger l ed  petated hospital amAre-
-                    ~~~~~fee -rcP., posture,  -atle  aed hitcher. g-edee or to lot fa11c; 0978 data.                hbailiestiteert- r-   Itapitle ate  -tetbtiseotte  P.-..asay staffed
by as least te -physiote_  fEtabli.hm_tta Preidheg peitmipally  -teo-
IS  PIN CAITA (I106) - lINP pet c-pIt  oeteste  so  .uc.e.t             P...t...eate  eel-          da1 _tar.r   o  is-odad .  foca  hest itee  hat.o. -teoilod  h-aIs
eesdby see -tuvere  esthed as Wueld Oath Atlas (1977-79 basis); 1960,                        aed medical -ot-sr   .to  p_-rly staffed bp A phystetie  (hot byA
1970, ted 1979 data.                                                                              sadht ..I shasort, turN. sidaife, see.) shiet offee te-patitesae
dashes erd proide a limited  ..ege ef madhel fahiheitse.  Foe nasel-
ENERGY CONSUMPNTIONS Pf1 CAPITA - Aosue.e-I    etirof  --ctsehl  -oey (auto                         steal pupss-bso hospitols iselude  OI pWHOp./gsssOhesphtals
a                  s~~~~ ~~od lgte    oea,etrlg.o aed hydr-. tuelo-  ted ge.tebt-el sla-                             adtrural hasPit14 1oat se ttee1 honpiteals ted medheal ae  steesty
troatep) to kilog_o   of-oo  equiv-et Pet -apita; 1960, 1970, sed 1979                            -aAse.  Speetelised h.spitals are tIeldsd ealy ad-r total.
date.                                                                                          Admis..it.es pe  N-pteal Ned. - Tota  somber tf edmish..s so or dischrgs.
fete hospitals dfvidsd hp she -ubar of beds.
POPULATION AND1 VITAL STATISTICS
Tota  Pepuleeti.. Mid-Yea  (she...o-d.  - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, aed 1979                 NOUINGIPI                                                           t..-d.T
data.                                                               Aese~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aa thea of lease..hold freo....ues   .ar .eaeht1d) -ttl   es.eArel
Ochs Fer pshu  fe-te of  -eta1  - Rftlo of aches so steal populestee;                             A hho.sohald eteehee  of A getup of  eodividsla ah, shar 0lining qesTat
dlffese  defiteisoco  of ube trea  as.    p effect omparability of data .                          hi   aemas        ere   slde   t   rmysth   otddi
_005  e...eette. 160  197,  sud 1979 does,                                                     the heosehul  furseaisthea  p-eptass.
P.tulattee Prof-cclee                                                                          Average ..tbp .o.rret    ete   -total. ura,td rsa   A-tIrg  t.'
P.caltheit Ivt-  2f0SI - Corec  pepuletlum peejeettees see base d to 1980                      he   fpesespero-h l   ree   r   ua  oteepiadcesshn
tota  populthe hy egs ted se  sd ethir metelity sed feetitit pess                            dr-tliegs, -esp-ti-ely,  tstigeamlde  t-amesserorestd
Projat_e  pareeoe P   .  cc eetalley cotta  -upehee of shet.  level                          ..em-.tttped _ pats.
hog lIfe -upe-t-c  Ac birth It...eieg tfo    -totry'. apee -apia iseeco                    Ateess to fEle5tttity (cerest of d-allias) - sesal. ocer  am  rural -
locel, sad basIc lift epuae   tbhlhisig as 77.5 yeses.  The para-                            Cesr-ticest dorloisga etch a1teteht'ty he theegqoreasp_eotsge
meter   or fertilitY rate alsohav  three level  esaumlg dsetier ha                           of  .totl, urba, aed ra-e  daellilegs  -ep-tiv-ly.
leeit he  aud         i otct  loya  sod pas  fatly pleeiegpremee
Ito .e....ety is thee ossigred .t. of these tote eumbistihees of esttelity                tTOCA-ION
ted fertilty creds fur peojecrice P.          "                                            ALdlueted tE-1tee  Neite
Steatosocy peol.aticn - It.  a se-i-say pepL.te sheet Is as greeh sie                          Prince sehoel -teel1, mate ted fot1t   - G,esm tota, melt ee  femel
the birth rote ha oqueI tu elm doath rate, cod also the ag.       eetere                        eetme ofatgeasthc primary leeI                    epsema    .so   nP..e..
ic cetot Thisi  Ae hievd orly  ftrfeteiity rtes. dacliet to                           poheory chobolAgeppteoe emlpiuee  ehldeem   ged f-1
the empltetee  level of u.it  -nrPr-d-otiue rtet, cOn  etc ...          reeeYear  hoe adjustedfo  dtfser   ngteo9p1                                  ay  deie e
fcmtcPlae_. te_clf eatlty   The sethtie..y pupulati- shoe ass...ttiss etch usire..s.l edoe..etis    el-meo  sty eated 100 Pas...C
esimated orhe basis uf cth  prejeese:d   eo enisof the pepulaths                              sIres some popIlase  babo  aov  t'he off ielat seheol age.
ItoYthe yee  lg..ad the rate of deuliuc of fertility ret. to replac-.etdr.sbe-    ett. melt and femle -_Cmposed as shov;astay
meet leve.                                                                                      edu..sthi  requiresa tes-ts fou  yate of approvd primary i.ss.e.tiet;
Ystr-teios-y p-lutacte  i. erohed - Tb. y-e  shoe retteasry popul.tie                             provides geesrl, e...tie.rl, orteehe  trott.inig ite -otieme fat pepih
cite ham bees ea-hed.                                                                          eat.ally of 12 to 17 Year  t  age;  ...capsetseeeea-  are geec-lty
.Pteultito teeItey                                                                                  a.oIde.
Pee sq. ha.    Mid-yea  pepalatiue Per tqute  kil...e -(100 hee-re) ef                         teeties e         1oimot f        Irse f seeseda_t) - V.ostisma  isetitetita.
total ae;1960, 197f ted 1979 data.                                                             teelads teeobiatl, lftia,oreher Peogeem  sloth epmtst  imdp..d-
lee o. h. attcutra  lee     Cepad -  as abuts foe ogie1t-lra  teed                         .stly er An departmen ts af ..e..eday iseiutes
oslY; 1961, 190'Oll   at.Pelrahs  eeie -                                                                                I .rse . ted  ...ed..    Total soat   Iseldh
Pepul-ttot Ago Struetac f.. rete  - Childec  (0-14 year), seeteg-age (it-                           Pr e  sod  aeedary leelfivdd  b   ebteo   mebe  imt th
64yee),sd  etired  (60 pear. so d cot) As Pereta.goc of mod-pas  Ppop-                         u.... edagoas
ate  16,190-e  079 deta.                                                                       Autler terte (pae...t) - Lit-eusadut  (al       eded sitie)
porpp eote fur 19110-ho,  960-7.0  ad  197079.
Po _ate    tee    Met.fsst)-ura  - Actual groach ctet  of oche  puPa-                 CONSUMPTION
1atie.s fee 1900-60, 1960-70, usA 1970-79.                                                   Pasaeg    Cars (tee thsusatd potulation) - Ptesasgo.. earn .emeissmat
Ceude Birth Rat. (p-eth--ed( - 9A-u   liv- bIrths Pee the....d of mid-yea                         otar  esathg less thee nighr Pse..rts;  meludesshla e  h-.:..a ted
pepu1atios; 1960, 1970, aed 1979 data.                                                         silitmey  -bitetl..
Crude Death Race (pec ebthsaed  - AetAl deahs pee theesade of mid-year                         Radio Rsests.. fete thuoned pepalathit) - All types of rct-r-a fee e.di.
pepuloi-s  196,  1 970,ed 1979  At.                                                            hetad s  so -asr1 pbtie per thttsesd of pepelatiom; smeldesas
Oro.. tRo-duecies REr-Averae taheef dough cere acnsill heat Is                                    lissedese o   isecstie-  ed It yearn that. egstans   t rah
her tasa  -ep-d-etv- peeled if the ep-rie-ta  Ptn.e.t aga-speeOf he fee-                       nesse-        effcm   data far cnt yeses nay tot h b tpss               ites
ti..lty rests; usoly five-yco  scrg's tedig i 96f, 1970g. ad 1979.                             mas  censee b hlihbsd ltig
PFsily Patt-csrt.AetoIAt fheusseds) - hiottes  caber of e-epteI                                TVisve  fee  thoameed teetl1-i-  - TV  eete...i-a gp beoade..st so
of bilth-emterl deirmcde  s,Pie_. of  _et..tel faniny plssiog P.-gr...                         general pblihe Pe.th ..s.s.ed popelatias; eseldas uslieead TV te.a.vWen
P_sI .lg....timet _       pre_ce ef maried  -tee) - P-aretage of matried                          It toseletd Is yees abe  e -htestt  of TV eats se  is efface
mass  at  hild-be..e  ego .  (I15-44 ye....) she act bhtth--t-1ee  decei-e tNeR-Ps  Irtelath= crmean cetelse.ee) - Sheta the assege ole-
011 __eird o.... ho sass age groinp.                                                           eulses. mc 'daily Tgnoeal isteeaasms-Papae", defioed Aaa.pmehdit
pobtistios devoted petiarily t se -emdimgt gres..       e.    05 .T  Is tm-ids-d
P000 AND NIIToITIIS                                                        S~~~Cioha  daily" if it appears ateat fert.ases.
utt. of Peed FouelePar Cayite  f1069-7t1Lf0) - lede  of eAr eApita asai                        Cmm   tAst- Artedasee roe  pitches tarTea- Based cm the somber of
produethut of all feed cecdcie.Fcduetieoeeeladeaaecd aed feed aed                              tleats sold d-eig the pee, iteoidIn sdmlssen  is t  dote-im tinct
Itetelcea   es    CaI . Cm,dieteset-- peiary goods (e.g.2egmets                             a  shl  sns
Wt-eed ef togae) ehieh ar  edible sad ecett.  atriests (e.g. t.ff.. amd
tea arr  -elded).  Agg-egot. prodoesie ef a-th teustey Is hoe ... dLAOR FSORCE
asttonavccage peeduce  Petceeighea  191-601970, ad 1979 data.                                Test1 L,eboPme (tosda  - Raeem-i.laly -ethn pats-, ieladiag
Per gotta tpelt  f celrtee  pecesr of t-itemt)   C-pf-e d 0t ru                     sed fcons ted osa_plyp  bet emeldhg he-esiv-,  edats   t
-eegy eavee of etc food supplies -atablul   Io eguecy Pet os pita                           eaetgpplse  ef all egs    efmtes    svae9es7te   r
Pee day. Available- spitem  ceopeis  dtee-ie Prtuth              mprslesst ...mpatel.l; 1960.RN ar   99 dtm..
cPere  sc  cag_ it sct             _ a  suppliesseclu1de to1ima  fedtmd,Pel                         eec  - femal  islet fetes               P is .p.atage of total tabt f.ort.
qase't`ries usd he feed Pro.c.siog, td  oer  Is dlntcibutie.  taueItseeler  (tersest) - Labor f_e  In fsreshg, f-eetay  basting med
nets sees ettirt.td IyFPAO b...rd -0 physielogheAl eseds N mesma  .tec-                      fishieg An Percentage of tmst1 labo  forte; 1960. 1970 aed 1979 data.
ithy tad h.,l, th ehdrtt  eetr--stl tmperatuce, bedfy a-ighbe   aeedtcfrct) - Labor fsestmithg   eatotas   nmfstt
ed stdti.tbute  ofpopuOelee, aed allcieg 10 peceo"a  oeser t                                adecetiy, setee- dgAte                   tsaem   aalilttts   90
hau-sbold leco;.09~61-65, 1970, sed 1977 data.                                                1970 aed 1979 dtl..
Fc iet.c tupelIf pueo(rt  e  dey) - Fet.te ..e tuoce  of pee .aPhit.                     Peectiatier fr  (eeee  -tta,mat se  femle -PeiieOoc
cet sepply. ofIcd per day.  Net eupply of food Im defited as abv.-   Ne-                     ntilthvtessseopee    s                 ,mae        dt femal  labor fortsa
qutm sfeeal  c            -acets ecab habd by tiDA petvtdr foe  ihetott                pe_ttete  of tetel, malt .sA femal  pepelatfo  of all a ges rapsotheay;
aeseeof 60 gete  ftetal PteeIe pee day ard 20 grTe of stime  aed                        t96g, 0970, aed 1979 dsta.  Tesh-         bed  o10speispta   ae
pulse%protete, ef ebich 10 grate mhm1d be asima1 pruetoi.  mee..t easd-                      sefleesiogage-e...  .lsenere ofsep.pleets., ned ba.g tint treed.  A
sede ae lace  tha.thrce  of 75 grua  ef total pete"io ad 23 gEms e                           feceroteetefete mathomel ee
atnal prcit  astete-ge for the  -1ed, pvpadby PA  Or the Tird                              Iette.it leede-s- Ratio - Rails of pvpu.tsit   sde- 11 sed 65 eed sa
,,orld Foed turvy; 1961-65, 1970 o-d 1977 daaI-tetta   niefre
PeeiapeeIe nupply frto eci_l aed pulse   P-Ftutio supply of fined de-
rived free teisol  ted Pule     -t    t  p- day; 1961-65, 1970 sed 1977 data.            ICOcs  DtISTRIol'TION
Child (aene 1-6) Raet-1oty Rate 1(per  hbtuesd)_-ctul deaths Pee ethossd Is                     sooaeo   eet   Itett  (both is cambt- lied) - Raooivud by richest
ag drapS.     toc,c   hleeO   hit Age grouP; ftc  -e  dottluphg tt                          5 pretet,te%, riehee I          20prts,peesf preett. std poorest 40 pretes
tisdta derived frt.  lift tables; 19ff, 1970 ecd 0929 data.                                ef hoasahelde.
HEALTH                                                                                         PfVERTY0 TARGET GROUP0
aLc  accec    tBic            ....rt  -.Avetrag  turbin  ef peers of lift ttmahoht             The lofoeh1    eseste  geevey app-te.t a- oe  of pevetylels
at bitch; 1916,1 1970 aed 1979 data,                                                           te  sold Is ihotopreted stb emsidealseeis
tel,, ea -aeaity Rat  (pe  tehe-ed  -Actual dratba of eesoeudt  ate pertmtd  Abh.                               c   oteo  .t.s leeiold            t  sta      rasedrts
of agepe  Ihteo   live births                                                                  Astlut   evd   e Ab  emest level is char L Ites  leve  haites.)  ie  ad sit      -
Ates  oOt ...(ect o   euateS  oa.eht   tuSefratt-Itam-                                            eutrihal  ad- qet     t i acer plus sanestCto-la    inootaeh   s
eaerspply , (I'ad.a tcace  -uf-c  caters er tos-ated hue ....ttsaiaed                     fErinted Rtcive Povte IsToo lve 0-a  tsttta)-ore  ad es-1
ctrecaathat free prt.te-d bcehelse, epriaga, eed saritcay stl)a                          ea   saiepvet   sealotC   t-hhde1vrg   s   spe
f-etrIc  -c st-dp-tc lg-ted  toh net that 211 mtecs fro  A lous  may he.- laso ech  djafmtefo  big tsbss  of- le  istee- aras
eu ladeea  beig.athibt  res-bslece    fof tht  Ime.                ua  teas                Eatimated Popelaties Neles Ab.lnott   Poverty lct   Paa           ..eees) - seb-
eeasenblaecaseold imly tha  the h.osesif. or nebrs uf ehe he....hold                      adTro-Praee  pptto   obsa    etl   l   r   selt
de soc hec  c  epeed a dispproputti...   Fart- of the d.y Ie fe-hieg the                       peer".
AcsoforEe- Dltseeml fecmee    oplt                -totl ucbo, std r-Arl-
tNmb:etf people (tte,   ba, tedcaet naevdhybsc-tc  diapeseln
the eeteictd dispcnat, sith or toth-u staem_t, of hast   -eeta                                                                       Erostte asd  aS-ialD fat  fisisite
sodaseeat .rby  etre-berse  yntem  or the o-  of phit peivisa aid 5iI                                                          fEctmir Analysis and Peejeemh... Depertns
PocPLattat roel Ph-sirhis - Fpolatito dividad by  -abac of pesctisieg phyet-                                                                                 98
ehaa  catfid Ir-  a nedieal sehoel at usi-eeicy le-e.
Popalatito reP. rss  P-rse- Pepala~tiee dirided by stale  of peaetitimg
male ted fenaT &teadose cacos  patitel             o     dre ..s . aset-ss  stress.



-28 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                               Annual growth rates (5)
current prices)                      Actual                                     Projected
Indicator                           1979           1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a   1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product           28,854           7.1     6.2      5.9     5.9      4.7      5.8      6.3     6.3      6.3     7.1      8.3
Agriculture                     6,991           8.6     5.0      4.8     5.3      4.3      5.2      5.2     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
Industry                      10,174          10.0      7.7      6.4     6.7      5.8      6.5      7.2     7.5     7.5      8.5    10.0
Services                      11,689           3.7      5.7      6.3     5.5      5.0      5.6      6.2     6.0      6.0     7.0     8.5
Consumption                      21,860           4.3     5.2      4.6     4.8      4.2      5.4      5.2     4.9      5.1     5.8      7.0
Gross investment                  8,576           8.0     0.7    13.3      7.4      4.8      6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3     7.1      8.3
Exports of GNFS /b                5,528          19.9    17.6      1.6     7.4    11.3      10.2    10.7    11.2    10.6    10.8    10.5
Imports of GNFS                   7,110           1.3     5.3    13.2    10.3       5.2      6.6      6.7     6.5      6.6     6.8      7.2
Gross national savings            6,665         -2.0    11.3       8.3     7.7      3.1      -        -       -        -       -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                       183.6   198.8   210.6   250.8    296.9       -        -       -       -        -       -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                           7.45    7.41    7.38    7.39      7.52      -        -       -       -        -       -
Export price index (1978 = 100)                 92.6    95.8   100.0   124.6    140.3   149.9   160.0   170.5   183.3   195.7   258.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                 91.6    94.2   100.0   117.4    142.2   157.0   170.8   185.2   197.1   210.6   289.3
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)               101.1   101.7   100.0   106.1       98.7    95.5    93.7    92.6    93.0    92.9    89.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                      Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /c                                (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990        1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           5.1        6.1       5.9        6.3       7.6
Agriculture                      28.1    27.8    29.0    26.8    25.0    22.0           4.3       4.3        4.8        5.0       5.0
Industry                        25.8    29.6    33.5    35.5    37.7    40.6            6.0       8.6        7.6        7.5       9.1
Services                        46.1    42.6    37.5    37.7    37.3    37.4            5.2       5.4        5.7        6.1       7.7
Consumption                     85.3    79.2    75.8    74.5    72.4    68.7            4.8       5.5        5.2        5.2       6.5
Gross investment                 16.3    21.5    31.0    30.1    29.2    30.5           8.2      11.5        6.5        6.8       7.6
Exports of GNFS                  10.8    19.4    18.5    19.4    24.7    27.5           5.8       3.2       10.0       10.7      10.0
Imports of GNFS                 10.6    19.7    25.3    24.0    26.2    25.4            6.8       6.8        8.0       6.6        6.9
Gross national savings           16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1    25.4    29.2           7.4       9.7        -          -         -
As % of GDP
1960      1970       1975       1980        Labor Force in 1978          Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                            Agriculture                 7.4       44.4
Current revenues                          9.8        9.5      13.9       12.8           Industry                    2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                      9.6       10.9      12.3        9.6           Services                    5.6       33.0
Current surplus                           0.2       -1.4       1.6        4.1           Unemployed                  1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                       2.3        1.9       3.2        3.2
Foreign financing                         -          0.1       0.3        1.5               Total Labor Force      16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75          1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                5.1              5.6              5.9              6.3              7.7
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.0              2.7              3.2              3.6              5.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 7.4              6.2              4.2              4.7              4.6
ICOR                                                      4.5              4.7              4.6              4.5              4.1
Marginal savings rate                                   0.285            0.330             0.26             0.32             0.35
Import elasticity                                        1.33             1.12             1.20             1.05             0.90
/a  Preliminary estimate.
7'b Historical figures are official estimates based on 1972 weights. In relation to the composition of Philippine exports
in the late 1970s these estimates give undue weight to stable or declining exports of raw commodities such as copra,
sugar, and logs, and insufficient weight to rapidly growing exports such as nontraditional manufactures and coconut oil.
Bank staff estimates of export volume based on 1978 weights are shown on Attachment 3b.
/c Projected years of constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
February 1981



- 29 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US8$ million)
Actual                          Est.                Projected
1976       1977        1978        1979           1980      1981        1982        1985
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                 3,387       4,161       4,838      6,177          8,040      9,450     11,100      18,200
Of which:  exports of goods                 2,574       3,151      3,425       4,601          5,940     7,480       8,500    14,300
Imports of goods and services                 4,763       5,248      6,323       8,108         10,620   12,540       14,450    21,700
Of which:  imports of goods                 3,633       3,915      4,732       6,142          7,870    9,360       10,800      16,200
Transfers (net)                                  269        260         313        355             410       450         500        800
Current Account Balance                    -1,107        -827     -1,172      -1,576         -2,170    -2,640    -2,850       -2,700
Direct investment (net)                          144        216         171          99            110       200         250        200
MLT loans (net)                               1,040         662         891      1,091          1,050      1,700      2,200       2,600
Official-source  loans (net)                  282         332        333         449            560        800      1,000         950
Private-source loans (net)                    758         330        501         642            490        900      1,200       1,650
Other capital (net) /a                         -238         113          56       -193             530       370         200        300
Overall Balance /b                           -161         164        -54        -579           -480       -370       -200         400
International reserves (end-year) /c          1,640       1,525       1,883      2,424          3,160      3,000      3,000       3,200
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grants                                 0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
Total public loans                          1,577.4    1,392.0   2,417.0   2,105.2
IBRD                                        226.0      317.5       3 533.0     210.5
IDA                                           0.0         0.0       28.0        62.0
Other multilateral                           64.2       226.6      189.2       286.6
Governments                                 391.6       182.3      370.4       223.6
Suppliers                                    52.0      194.2        76.7        52.3
Financial institutions                      476.4      341.7    1,000.5    1,224.4
Bonds                                       367.2       129.7      219.2        45.8
Other MLT loans                               603.6       115.0      914.0       278.8
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments                    8.8        14.7        16.8       16.5
Average interest (%)                             8.3        7.9         7.4        7.7
Average maturity (years)                       13.1        15.3        15.9       15.9
Medium & Long-Tem Debt
Total debt outstanding (disbursed
only, end of period)                      4,383.0    5,554.0   6,839.0    7,920.0
Including undisbursed                       6,817.0    8,155.0  10,856.0  12,225.3
Public debt service                          -239.2    -441.9       -468.1  ?0652.5
of which:  interest                         -97.9    -215.2       -167.1      -300.0
Other MLT debt service                       -283.5    -320.1       -441.9    -375.5
Total debt service                           -522.7    -762.0    -910.0  -1,082.0
Debt Burden
Debt service ratio                             15.4        18.3        18.8       17.4
Debt service ratio /d                          19.4        22.1        21.2       18.2
Debt service/GDP                                 2.9        3.8         3.9        3.6
Public debt service/goveroment
revenue                                       9.9        12.0       20.1        18.3                                         Outstanding
December 31, 1979
Terms                                                                                                                           Amount    Percent
External Debt                (US$ min)
Interest on total DOD/total DOD                  4.1        6.4         4.0        6.1
Total debt service/total D5OD                   10.5       15.8        13.3       13.0         (Disbursed only)
IBRD                           731      14.1
Dependency Ratios                                                                                   Bank Group /e                  763       14.8
Other multilateral             397        7.7
Gross disbursements/imports (GNFS)             37.9        28.7        34.3       30.7           Governments                   1,094      21.2
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                    29.6        20.8        16.0       16.7            Suppliers                      250       4.8
Net transfer/gross disbursements               78.0        73.0        59.0       52.8           Financial institutions    1,879          36.4
Bonds                          783      15.1
Exposure                                                                                            Total public MLT debt    5,167          100.0
Other MLT debt               2,753       53.3
IBRD disb./gross total disb.                     5.5        7.4         8.3       10.4           Total MLT debt                7,920     153.3
Bank Group disb./gross total disb.Ie             6.2        7.5         8.3       10.4
IBRD DOD/total DOD                              7.2         7.3         8.0        9.9         (Including undisbursed)
Bank Group DOD/total DOD /e                     7.8         7.8         8.4       10.3           Public MLT debt            8,971.4      173.6
IBRD debt service/total debt service            6.6         5.6         6.9        7.3           Total HLT debt            12,225.3      237.0
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv           6.7        5.6         7.0         7.4
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
7b  Equals change in net international reserves.
7E  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves, IFS).
72 Includes net direct investment income.
7e  Excludes IFC.
East Asia and Pacific Region
February 1981



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page I of 17 pages
TIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of May 31, 1981
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                 Purpose                          Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
Twenty-three Loans and three credits fully disbursed                        416.2   32.2
984-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation            9.5              0.6
998-PH   1974           "                DBP I                              50.0              3.3
1034-PH   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.0               1.9
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.0               9.0
1048-PH   1974           "                Shipping                          20.0               3.5
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                              30.0               1.0
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                     17.0              4.3
1102-PH   1975           "                Rural Development                 25.0               7.1
1154-PH   1976           "                Magat Irrigation                  42.0              13.2
1190-PH   1976           "                DBP II                            75.0               4.0
1224-T-PH 1976                            Education III                     25.0               5.2
1225-PH   1976           "                Livestock II                      20.5               0.02
1227-PH   1976           "                Cnico Irrigation                  50.0              31.3
1272-T-PH 1976           "                Manila Urban                      10.0               5.0
1282-PH   1976                            Manila Urban                      22.0              11.1
1269-PH   1976           "                Second Grain Processing            11.5              7.8
1353-PH   1977           "                Third Highways                    95.0              60.8
1367-PH   1977           "                Jalaur Irrigation                 15.0               7.5
1374-PH   1977           "                Fourth Education                  25.0               9.2
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                                36.5              16.6
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.    50.0                 34.0
1415-PH   1977           "                Provincial Cities Water Sup.   23.0                 15.3
1421-PH   1977           "                Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II          15.0             10.5
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.0              37.8
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smallholder Tree Farming            8.0              6.7
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                               30.0              10.0
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II 65.0                 49.6
790-PH   1978           "                Rural Infrastructure                      28.0      23.8
S.8-PH   1978           "                Education                           2.0              1.3
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                60.0               8.4
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                  15.0              1.6
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                         150.0              50.8
1572-PH   1978           "                Industrial Investment III         80.0              35.8
1615-PH   1978           "                Manila Water Supply II            88.0              83.9
1626-PH   1979           "                National Extension                35.0              34.1
1639-PH   1979           "                Magat River Multipurpose          21.0              17.8
1646-PH   1979           "                Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)  16.5                 11.3
1647-PH   1979           "                Second Urban Development          32.0              26.5
1661-PH   1979           "                Highways IV                      102.0              98.7
1710-PH   1979           "                Water Supply II                    16.0             16.0
920-PH   1979           "                Water Supply II                           22.0      21.0
1727-PH   1979           "                Small & Medium Industry II        25.0              11.4
923-PH   1979           "                Population II                             40.0      39.8
1772-PH   1980           "                Samar Island Rural Devel.         27.0              26.6
1786-PH   1980           "                Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)         38.0             37.6
1809-PH   1980           "                Medium-Scale Irrigation            71.0             70.9
1814-PH   1980           "                Manila Sewerage & Sanitation   63.0                 62.1
1815-PH   1980           "                Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)   12.0                 11.9
1821-PH   1980           T                Third Urban                        72.0             69.8
1855-PH   1980           "                Third Ports                       67.0              67.0
1860-PH   1980           "                Rural Roads Improvement           62.0              60.3
1890-PH   1981           "                Watershed Management              38.0              37.9
1894-PH   1981           "                Third Livestock & Fisheries    45.0                 43.1
1903-PH   1981           "                Structural Adjustment            200.0              99.8
1984-PH/a 1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)            150.0            150.0
Philippines
Total                                                                2,815.7  122.2  1,585.5
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                             196.3
Total now outstanding                                                2,619.4  122.2
Amount sold                                              24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        17.8            6.5    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                               2,612.9  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                    1,500.9   84.6  1,585.5
/a Not yet effective.



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of May 31 , 1981
Fiscal                                                        Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the          15.0     4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967          Manila Electric Company                         8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                    -      4.0      4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance Telephone              4.5       -      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                     0.8      0.4     1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the              -      2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                 6.2     2.1      8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial               15.0       -     15.0
Corporation
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                  1.9     0.3      2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation           1.5       -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5          0.7      2.2
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation                1.2      -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial                 7.0       -      7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                       2.6     0.2      2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                      2.3     1.2      3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                      3.5       -      3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -       2.1
1979          General Milling Corporation                     4.0     1.1      5.1
1980          PISO Leasing Corporation                        5.0     0.1      5.1
1980          Ventures in Industry and Business               -       0.3      0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980          Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.             4.5      -       4.5
1981          Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp. -           5.0      5.0
Total gross commitments                        86.6    22.0   108.6
Less sold, acquired by others,              48.6    12.7    61.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC              38.0     9.3    47.3
Total Undisbursed                               5.0     5.0    10.0



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of Nay 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works, and further delays were caused by strong
typhoons in 1978 and 1980 which damaged some of the project area. Completion
is now planned for 1981 - a three-year delay in the original schedule. Due
to increased costs, a reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction,
the internal rate of return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the
appraisal estimate of 17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is now about 75% complete. Full completion is expected
by June 1982, a two-year delay in the original schedule, caused mainly by
managerial problems and late preparation of the designs for the drainage
works. The closing date has, therefore, been extended by two years to June
30, 1982. The area developed is likely to be some 20% less than originally
planned mainly because of flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Costs are higher, partly due to the delays referred to above, and the economic
rate of return is now likely to be close to 10% compared with an appraisal
estimate of 15%.
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall implementation is about 75% complete. The road subproject
has been delayed by about two years because most of the construction contrac
had to be rebid following the failure of the ongoing contracts. Contracts
for the construction of the irrigation works are also behind schedule, but
most of these should be successfully completed without rebidding.  Recent
efforts by the project management office to improve contract performance
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
have been successful, and force account works are proceeding well. General
shortages of fuel and construction material have now been overcome.
Disbursements have improved significantly recently and completion is
expected in mid-1982, about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is about 81% complete.  All contracts have now been awarded
but some of the work has been postponed until the end of the rainy season.
The water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Problems
experienced due to budgetary constraints in 1980 are expected to be lessened
in 1981 as NIA taps other local financial resources. Due to earlier delays
in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980, project
completion is expected to be delayed by about two years over the original
schedule.
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 1981, one year
before the closing date (June 30, 1982) as a result of significant subloan
demand in piggery and poultry subsectors. Further support to livestock
development in the Philippines is being provided under the ongoing Third
Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project (Loan 1894).
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Although the project was due for completion by June 1980, it
is now only about 40% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays have been caused by
changes in design resulting in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; problems of right-of-way aquisition and the recent suspensio
of work on the diversion dam because of security problems. The project is
not now expected to be completed before June 1984, a four-year delay over
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Due to delays in implementation of the first phase project
(Loan 720-PH) and to the general availability of funds to millers from



- 34 -
ANNEX II
page 5 of 17
alternative sources, disbursements have progressed slowly. Recently,
however, due to DBP's promotional efforts, the subloan demand from millers
has been increasing. In addition, DBP is considering financing the grain
warehouse construction program of the National Food Authority under this
project. In view of these developments, the project funds are expected to
be fully committed by the end of CY1981 and the loan disbursed by June 1983,
two years behind schedule. The closing date has been extended accordingly
to June 30, 1983. The ongoing Grains Losses Study is expected to be
completed by the end of 1981.
Loan No. 1367      Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 40% compared with appraisal
estimates of 55%. Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily. Some of
the 24 civil works contracts failed, due to unsatisfactory procurement
procedures, but the Government has now taken action to improve the situation.
Progress has recently improved, and a timely completion is still expected.
Loan No. 1399      Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements continue to be roughly one-half of
appraisal estimates. The Central Bank has reassessed the project and as a
result new categories of lending (for medium-size trucks, tree crops and
working capital), and a new set of financial intermediaries (private
development banks) have been included in the project. More recently the
Central Bank has reduced the relative advantages of rural banks in short-term
lending vis-a-vis medium- and long-term lending provided under the project,
and has introduced a capital build-up program and conversion scheme to lower
the high levels of arrears of participating rural banks. Although these
initiatives should accelerate implementation, the completion date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow, initially because
of staffing and design problems, and more recently because of delays in the
review of design and contractual arrangements for the Abulog diversion dam.
Shortages of fuel and construction materials, which have been a major cause of
delay, have now been overcome. The project is now expected to be completed in
1983, two years later than originally estimated. Implementation improved
during the 1980 construction season, and further improvements are expected
during 1981, mainly because of better planning and organization, less
complicated contract procedures, and completion of designs. Final project
costs and benefits are expected to be in line with original estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Loan No. 1421      Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being maintained. The Government has
simplified and accelerated procedures for issue of land allocation certi-
ficates and titles to project area settlers, improving their eligibility for
term credit. Substantial progress has been made in construction of roads,
bridges and related infrastructure. Initial irrigation works, water supply
systems and health stations have been installed. Adaptive research trials
have been completed and pilot extension programs for appropriate agricultural
packages are now under way. Feasibility studies for development of other
settlements are well advanced, but formulation of a long-term land use policy
framework is lagging. Previous bottlenecks in the flow of funds and loan
disbursements have eased since 1980. Implementation plans for 1981/82,
currently being reviewed, show project costs and overall targets in line with
original estimates.
Loan No. 1506      Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Treefarmer enrollment in the DBP treefarming component, which has
been slow in the past, has improved markedly following DBP's liberalization
of application procedures and collateral requirements. However, so far fewer
smallholders and more medium-size land-owners are participating than expected
at appraisal. The other components, all of which involve government agencies,
now have budget appropriations commensurate with project requirements,
although delays in fund releases still occur.  The forest research component
is progressing well and the wood industries feasibility study is approaching
completion. Vehicles and equipment for BFD's Abra plantation component have
still not been acquired due to overly cumbersome local procurement procedures.
The young planted pines have been infested by a shoot borer insect, which will
require immediate control measures. The pace of implementation of this com-
ponent will, therefore, have to be reduced and its completion date extended
by at least one year.
Loan No. 1526       Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, project planning and design have been completed
for most of the systems, and construction is fully under way. No major
contracts have been awarded and those originally scheduled for 1980 were
delayed because of financial constraints and difficulties in completing
designs on schedule.  To help with this problem, NIA has agreed to retain
local consultants to assist in design preparation of drainage works and thus
avoid delays in subsequent contract works. Overall progress is satisfactory
and the project is expected to be completed as scheduled.



- 36 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. As of December 31,
1980, construction of about 34 km of roads had been completed, 300 km of
roads (about one-third of the program) were under contract or shortly to be
awarded, and 90% of the design work on the remaining roads had been completed.
While construction of the irrigation component is behind schedule, overall
progress of the project is satisfactory. About 300 rural water supply units
are completed and 48 barangay health stations have been built and
commissioned. The overall progress on the port component is estimated at
about 50%.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage IT;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress is good. The first stage of river diversion has been
successfully achieved and excavation is substantially complete. Construc-
tion of the main dam is making excellent progress. Concrete work for the
spillway started slowly and suffered from interruptions due to breakdown of
the cranes, but the contractor has made up for lost time and is once more
nearly on schedule. Work on resettlement of the population to be displaced
by the reservoir is proceeding very well.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Bureau of Agricultural
Extension, aims to introduce the training and visit (T and V) system to the
national extension service over a four year period. A Project Management
Committee has been created under the Deputy Minister's Chairmanship, and
appropriate subcommittees and operational units established.  Regional
reorganization was effected on March 24, 1980 with the appointment of 12
Regional Directors and 24 Assistant Directors, followed by 75 Provincial
Executive Officers on March 28. The 1979 incremental staff appointments
have been made and recruitment of the 1980 contingent is proceeding. A
contract has been let for the construction of 167 extension centers.  The
first year-s motorcycle allotment has been purchased and distributed under
the special vehicle loan fund.  Procurement of the other vehicles, for the
first and second year, together with equipment, is proceeding. Training
was interrupted temporarily during reorganization, but is continuing in
cooperation with the USAID/KSU program on Agricultural Production and
Marketing. The first consultancy, on extension workers- compensation and
duties, and a second, on monitoring and evaluation procedures for extension
workers and services, have been let. Pilot areas for introducing the
T and V system of extension have been established in all 12 regions of the
country. The first four have been evaluated and a report issued.
Benchmarker agro-economic surveys, on which the selection of the pilot areas
was based, have been completed in the 12 regions.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Loan No. 1639-PH Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is satisfactory.
All major contracts have already been awarded and some are ahead of schedule.
All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is expected by mid-1983 as scheduled at appraisal. The only
problem to be foreseen is an overall financial constraint which is being
carefully considered by the Government.
Loan No. 1646-PH Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cumulative disbursements of $5.1 million up to March 1981 were
lower than the appraisal estimate of $6.4 million due to weak subloan demand
and organizational problems. The disbursement rate is expected to accelerate
in the near future, however, because of the following: withdrawals under the
infrastructure component are expected to start soon since procedural diffi-
culties with the government budget have been resolved; LBP proposes to
reorganize its field level organization and recruit additional staff to step
up subloan disbursements to small farmers; and LBP's subsidiary agency, now
participating in the project, is to expand its operations. The loan is
expected to be fully drawn down by December 31, 1983 compared to the
appraisal estimate of June 30, 1983.
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Procurement of services, materials and equipment for the project is
now under way, and the first phase of the Catubig valley studies has been
completed. NIA has been experiencing difficulties attracting bidders for
construction of communal irrigation systems, and the Bank has therefore
recently agreed to the construction of three systems by force account in
order to avoid losing the 1981 construction season.
Loan No. 1809-PH Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The loan became effective in June 1980 and project consultants
started work in August 1980. Procurement of project equipment is under way.
Design and preparation of contract documents for civil works are proceeding on
schedule and construction should start as planned.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1815-PH Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Management of project components implemented through the Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) is proceeding well, but those activities implemented by
other government agencies are proceeding more slowly. Efforts are now being
made to channel funds to these agencies through MOA, the lead agency. Pro-
curement is six months behind schedule, mainly because all vehicle procurement
has to be reviewed by the Ministry of the Budget. Nonavailability of credit
has been a problem, and measures are being taken to involve banks other than
the rural banks, including the Land Bank and the Philippine National Bank.
Construction of the training center is delayed because the Provincial Govern-
ment has been unable to provide the 25% counterpart funds for construction
costs.
Loan No. 1890-PH Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
A good start has been made on implementation of the main components
of the project. Jurisdictional difficulties between the implementing agency
and the Bureau of Forest Development have been sorted out and a Memorandum of
Understanding signed. The National Irrigation Administration is making
vigorous efforts to protect the project as much as possible from the current
shortage of local funds.
Loan No. 1894      Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
A good start has been made in project implementation. As of March
1981, cumulative disbursements of $1.4 million exceeded the appraisal estimate
of $1 million. These disbursements were mainly for livestock and inland
fisheries subsectors; the loan demand for marine fisheries is, however, weak
owing to increases in fuel costs, and DBP is currently reviewing its lending
strategies with a focus on expanding support to tuna fishing. Under the non-
credit component, the Borrower's Bureau of Animal Industry and Fisheries
Industry Development Council are preparing proposals for research and other
support programs. DBP's studies on development of a new management informa-
tion system and staff training programs are in progress. A plan for monitor-
ing and evaluation of future agricultural credit projects is also being
developed by DBP.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended to June 30, 1981 to allow for the
completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee payments.
About 70% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications covering the
balance of uncommitted funds are under consideration by DBP.



- 39 -                       ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Loan No. 1353      Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 53X completed and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many
contractors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds.  The
operations of the Ministry of Public Highways (MPH) have improved but require
further efforts, specifically in road maintenance. In road construction and
improvement, works on 11 national and 5 minor road contracts are progressing
satisfactorily; however, poorly performing contractors continue to cause
problems on three national and two minor road contracts. MPH has now
undertaken the action necessary to forfeit and retender those five contracts,
and contract award is scheduled by mid-1981. The road maintenance and
restoration programs have been reviewed and are now making some progress. Of
the 28 workshop contracts, 11 are now under construction, 13 are up for rebid
and 4 have been renegotiated.  There is a significant cost overrun on the
workshop contract, caused by changes in the design and price escalation.
Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been
completed. Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops
are in place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed.
The technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in
November 1979 and training advisors to MPH completed their work in March 1980.
Overall, the project completion is likely to be delayed until mid-1983, and
the closing date has therefore been extended accordingly.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After an initial delay of several months the implementation of this
project has proceeded slowly, mainly because of time-consuming prequalifica-
tion procedures for contractors and slow selection of consultants for
technical assistance. The overall delay now amounts to at least a year, and
the progress in implementing the project continues to be slow. Although MPH
has done a considerable amount of preparatory work and international
competitive bidding is now under way, no construction or improvement works
have yet started. A consulting firm for the design and construction
supervision of workshops has started the design work. Land acquisition for
road construction and workshops is under way and preparatory work has begun
for the continuation of the road maintenance and road restoration programs
begun under the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH). Prequalification for
equipment suppliers has begun, but bids will be invited only after completion
of workshop construction.
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents are now
complete, and bidding for the four main port contracts is scheduled to take



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
place by mid-1981. Other preconstruction activities are under way and are
scheduled to be completed before the main contractors begin work. Consultants
have been selected to provide technical assistance for construction super-
vision, and contract negotiations are under way.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September
11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Initial progress in preparing the 1981 rural roads program has been
slow due mainly to a delay in providing technical assistance services to the
implementing agency.  Due to delays in preparing and reviewing detailed
engineering for rural roads, no construction contracts will start in the 1981
dry season, putting the project about nine months behind schedule. Consulting
services are generally on schedule with the exception of the technical
assistance. The Government is aware of the importance of this item and is
taking steps to remedy the problem.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The central part of the project, which is the development of primary
and secondary textbooks and teachers' manuals in five subject areas, has made
continuous progress since the inception of the project.  Eighteen million
books have been produced and distributed. The project should meet its goal
of producing and distributing to schools 75 titles amounting to 30 million
copies, as well as training about 250,000 teachers, by the middle of 1981.
Civil works are about 28 months behind schedule. Project costs are close
to appraisal estimates and disbursements are about 80% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374       Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is now some 18 months behind schedule.
Rapid price escalation and high credit costs in the 1978-80 period resulted
in a slow-down in building activity, the rescinding of an important contract
and renegotiation of others, thus delaying implementation of the project's
other physical components and dependent educational objectives. The situation
is being recuperated and in the process EDPITAF has devolved implementation
responsibilities to recipient institutions.  An extension of the closing date
is to be sought once a revised financial plan has been elaborated with the
Finance and Budget Ministries. Overall project utilization of Technical
Assistance Specialists is only 20%, while over 80% of Fellowship time has been
committed. Enrolments are about on target and other educational developments
at UPLB and VISCA are proceeding satisfactorily. There is some tendency to
proliferate fields of specialized study and the National Governing Board of
the PTC-RD system has not functioned as planned in reviewing important changes
in policies and programs.



- 41 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have been implemented efficiently. The report on the
project summative evaluation which has been completed by the University of the
Philippines' Institute of Mass Communication, contains informative data on the
use of radio for the improvement of education. The Educational Communications
Office is now formulating follow-up plans incorporating this data into the
forthcoming Elementary Education project. A separate evaluation of the
Communication Technology for Rural Education will be completed towards the end
of 1981.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Although the loan became effective in May 1980, funds were released
by the Government only in November, which resulted in some implementation
delays. Physical implementation, however, is on schedule. Contract awards
for the first 13 packages were expected in the first quarter of 1981.  By
December 1980, site acquisition was practically completed and equipment lists
were nearing completion.  The first of five planned RIFT/RCFT staff training
workshops was conducted in November 1980. EDPITAF's devolution of major
responsibility and funds for implementation to recipient institutions is a
major policy change which will require, among other things, the introduction
of complex accounting practices. The proposed UPVCF Fellowship program is not
consistent with project objectives and will require rigorous review by UPV,
EDPITAF and the Bank.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
*                             December 9, 1976;  Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 65% complete. In
spite of implementation delays in two key components - construction of major
roads and the sewer outfall - overall management of the project has improved:
key staff vacancies in the Tondo office have been filled, and NHA's General
Manager is increasingly devoting his personal supervision to the project. All
but two infrastructure contracts have been awarded and are currently in
various stages of mobilization. The Dagat-Dagatan component is 98% complete,
and about 1,317 of the 1,501 completed units have been occupied. The short-
fall of 499 units will be constructed under the Second Urban Project. The
progress of the first package of the road component has been held up due to
price adjustment problems in the contract, and implementation of the sewer
outfall component has been delayed due to design modifications. However, the
contractor has now been selected, and implementation of this component is now
expected to proceed smoothly.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Overall project implementation is about one year behind schedule.
Major contracts have been awarded; however, due to unforeseen delays in well
drilling and late deliveries of pipes, progress is slow. Work has started in
four of the six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing in the
remaining two. The construction cost is expected to be close to appraisal
estimates and project completion is expected to be on target.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in contract approvals in the ADB-financed components of the
project (source and treatment works) have resulted in similar delays in
IBRD-financed parts of the project (distribution system). Nevertheless,
according to rescheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that the
original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met with no
further slippage. Water rates were increased by 25 centavos in May 1980 and a
10% water rate surcharge was implemented at the end of 1980. A further water
rate increase is expected to be implemented after the Presidential elections
in June 1981.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Since the loan became effective in April 1979, implementation has
been in progress on earthworks, sewerage and drainage contracts in Dagat-
Dagatan and on the SIR program in the regional cities. An action program to
remedy the drainage problem of the Dagat-Dagatan area and to provide adequate
fill materials has been initiated through MPW and contracts for major
earthworks and infrastructure are now being let. This should considerably
accelerate disbursements on the Dagat-Dagatan component. Overall loan
disbursement improved during FY80. Due to fill deficiency problems at the
Dagat-Dagatan site and general price escalations, the total project costs have
increased to approximately $95 million, reflecting a 38% increase over the
appraisal estimate. It is likely that the overall project will be completed
on schedule by the end of 1983.
Credit 920-PH Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts required under the project have been formed.
Detailed designs for 12 of the project cities are nearing completion. Work
has started on the development of a financial planning and control system,
and consultants have started the preparation of a comprehensive management
assistance and training proposal. A new institution, the Rural Water Supply
Development Corporation, has been created, and is now preparing a list of
materials to be procured for rural water supply.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
Loan 1814-PH  Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project:  $63.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is proceeding well, with no major problems. Detailed
designs for the Tondo Pumping Station have been completed, and tenders for
sanitary sewers in Dagupan and Pandacan called.  The organization for the
combined sewer program is in place; staffing and training plans are being
prepared; and equipment for the water quality monitoring program has been
approved for procurement. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates,
due mainly to faster improvement in MWSS's management than anticipated.
Loan 1821-PH Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
With satisfactory organizational and staffing arrangements now
established, physical implementation of this project is generally on schedule
in spite of procedural delays in budgetary releases. Second phase programs in
community upgrading, serviced sites, basic municipal infrastructure and
employment promotion are already being identified for inclusion.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed by mid-1981, more
than three years behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is
estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the original
estimate ($92 million). The closing date of the loan has been postponed from
June 30, 1981 to March 31, 1982 to allow additional time for payment of
retention monies to contractors.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
L                            Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Project implementation is behind schedule, and is expected to be
completed one year later than estimated. The foreign exchange component is
now estimated at $57.1 million (including additional works) compared with the
original estimate of $58.0 million; surplus funds will be used to expand
substations to increase the reliability of the system. Due to delays in
procurement and because of additional works authorized by the Bank, the
closing date of the loan will need to be extended to mid-1983. NPC has still
been unable to meet the 8% rate of return target provided in the Loan
Agreement and the Government has yet to provide specific assurances that
appropriate action will be taken to remedy this. This problem is being
followed up by the Bank.



- 44 -                      ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
After earlier improvements in implementation, the project is now
behind schedule. About 300,000 house connections were made in 1980, compared
with NEA's target of 487,000. NEA's financial performance in 1979 was good,
but adjustments to the audited accounts for 1978 resulted in a net loss of
P10.3 million ($1.4 million). The Bank has now made a number of recommenda-
tions to improve the audit reports prepared by the Commission on Audit. NEA
is making efforts to monitor the financial performance of the cooperatives and
for the first time has published the financial results of the cooperatives as
a supplement to its 1979 report.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998        Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been almost
fully drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial
projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300
smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the
loan is also substantially disbursed.
Loan No. 1052       Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness:  February 7, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30,
1981
After some slowdown in commitments and disbursements experienced in
1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed. Overall progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190       Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected
due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, improved
in 1978 and 1979.  The loan has since been fully committed by DBP for
subprojects.  Disbursements are now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1514       Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
As of January 31, 1981 commitments under the loan amounted to $25.6
million. The project progress is satisfactory.



- 45 -                        ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
at a satisfactory rate.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily and the loan
allocation for this component has been fully committed. However,
cancellation/withdrawal of some subloans earlier committed under the loan
has left an uncommitted balance of $6.5 million under the loan allocation
($50 million) for medium/large industry financing. The overall progress
of loan commitment and disbursement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1727      Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
After the introduction of policy changes in IGLF in late 1979,
IGLF's loan commitment rate has accelerated. As a result, disbursements
under the IGLF component ($24.5 million) amounted to $10.4 million as of
January 31, 1981 and are expected to be completed before the loan closing
date. The reorganization within the Ministry of Industry has considerably
slowed down disbursements under the MASICAP component ($500,000). Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1984      Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was signed on May 28, 1981, and is not yet effective.
*         Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903      Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the Government's
industrial development program in support of which the loan was made. The
first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff reform and trade
liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; studies are under way to
review and improve the Government's industrial incentives and promotion
system; end subsector development programs are under preparation to assist



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
domestic industries to adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization
measures. The first tranche of $100 million has now been fully drawn down by
the Government has entered into commitments to utilize nearly half of the $5
million technical assistance component to help formulate and implement various
industrial policy measures. The availability of the second tranche of $95
million has been temporarily delayed to allow the Government additional time
to finalize and adopt the final phase of the tariff reform and trade
liberalization program.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
As of November 1980, 198 of the 219 training centers and rural
health units and about 93% of all construction work had been completed.
Procurement of furniture and vehicles has been completed, with some items of
equipment still remaining. Problems associated with the phasing out of the
old Project Management Staff with the resultant loss of continuity and
coordination, and with continuing delays in budget release and austerity
measures have severely restricted project activities, and the closing date of
June 30, 1981 will not be met. Before agreeing to an extension to the closing
date, the Bank is requiring, among other conditions, that the required budget
funds be released to the Ministry of Health and that a suitably qualified
person be hired as a consultant to coordinate project activities.  If these
conditions are met, it is expected that the project will close by December
1982, three years behind schedule.
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
All sites for POPCOM's offices, warehouses and vehicle maintenance
workshops and 126 of the 158 sites for the Ministry of Health's health centers
and barangay health stations required for the 1981 construction program have
been acquired and surveyed, and the remaining 32 sites are being obtained.
Operation research and communication production works are on schedule and
procurement documents are being processed for vehicles and equipment.  The
National Primary Health Care policy paper, implementation guidelines and
primers for health workers have been finalized, and orientation and training
workshops for intersectoral development and health staff have been conducted
in six regions. With the exception of the primary health care component,
overall progress has been slow, and as of December 1980 disbursements had
barely started. The Bank has provided the Government with a list of
recommended actions designed to improve the project management capacity of
POPCOM and MOH; however, initial delays in budget release and recent changes
in project management may cause slippage in the project completion date.



- 47 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Ministry of Agriculture,
assisted by FAO/CP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        September, 1979
(d) First mission to consider the
project:                            September, 1979
(e)  Departure of appraisal missions:    April and September 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:            May 22, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         October 31, 1981
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
MOA would:
(a) by January 31, 1982, establish 12 RIARS, one in each of the 12
regions, appoint a manager for each of the RIARS, and appoint 12
Regional Research Committees and Coordinators responsible for
regionally managed research (para. 59);
(b) by January 31, 1982, finalize a staffing plan summarizing the
duties of all personnel and their deployment in the various MOA
agencies (para. 65);
(c)  by July 31, 1982, establish agribusiness councils, one in each of
the 12 regions (para. 70); and
(d) submit its research programs, funded by the project, together
with UPLB's small farm systems program, to the Bank annually, by
October 31, for comment prior to their approval by the Research
Coordinating Committee and the Small Farm Systems Research
Committee, respectively (para. 66).



- 48 -                      ANNEX III
page 2 of 2 pages
UPLB would:
by July 31, 1982 contract with Central Luzon State University, the
Visayan State College of Agriculture and the University of
Southern Mindanao to conduct cooperative small farm systems
research (para. 66).
FNRI would:                                                                           t
forward, by January 31, 1982, its survey proposal to the Bank for
comment prior to submitting it to the National Science Development
Board for approval (para. 69).
The following key actions to implement the project are conditions
of effectiveness:
MOA would:
(a) appoint a Project Management Committee (para. 63);
(b) establish a training unit within the Project Management Office to
be responsible for training under the project (para. 64).
(c) link its Agricultural Project Planning Unit with the
Project Development and Evaluation Division of its Planning
Service and appoint a Chief for the linked units (para. 69);
(d) designate the Planning and Programming Division of the
Planning Service to be responsible for the food and nutrition
studies and agribusiness promotion activities of the project (para.
70).



IBRD 13915RI
116     CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                      120'                                                        1240                                                      MARCH tBis
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
I ILOCOS                 VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                          09
1 IlocosNorte             37 Aklan                                                                                PHILIPPINES
2 Abra                    38 Capiz
3 ilocosSur               39 Antique
200       4 Mountain                 40 11ilo                                                                                                                                               204
5La Union                 41 Negros Occidental
6 Banquet             Vii CENTRAL VISAYAS                                             -                         -        Airport
7Pagasnan42 Gebu                                                                                                   Roads_
7Pangasinan             43 Negros Oriental                                        0                                     Roods
[CAGAYAN VALLEY              44 Bohol
8 Batanes                 45 Siquijor                                     ,                                               Railwoys
g Cagayan            Vi I I EASTERN VISAYAS 
10Kaiinga-Apayao                                              46 -otherSamr- -   Provincial Bounclores
10 Kalinga-Apapan   46 Northern Sanmar                              B  abuia Channel
11 15abela                 47 Samar                                                                          __________
12 lIueao                  48 Eastern Samar                                                                                Regionat Boundaries
13 NuevaViscaya            49 Leyte                                                 p J                       - -          I
14 Quirino                 50 Southern Leyte             taoog                                                             Interntionl Boundories
liI CENTRAL LUZON          IX WESTERN MINDANAO                                  /
15 Nueva Eclia             51 Zamboanga del Norte               I           -
16 Tarlac                  52 Zamboanga del Sur               n
17 Zambates                53 Basitan
1S Pampanga                54 Sulu                               '  ,
19 Bulacan                 55 Twitawi                       j      a 1   4
20 Bataan                X NORTHERN MINDANAO                     I
IVSOUTHERN TAGALOG    5B SrianodelHorte, Sont
21 Quezon                  57 CaMigotin           Fernondo  ~~
22 Rizal                   58 Agusan del Norte                            1         -                                                10     10 20 20 30
23 Cavite                   59 MisamisOriental          0         Ba9  o  (J                                             _    50    100    150    200 250   300
160     24 Laguna                   B0 Mdisarnis Occidental                                                         KILOMETERS
25 Batangas                6i 8ukidnon                      3                                                     MILES                                                              16' '
26 Marindaqae              62 Agusan del Sur                                                                            0           o         1O0        150        20
27 Mindoro Oriental    Xi SOUTHERN MINDANAO                             Sc2
28 Mindoro Occidental      63 Surigao del Sur            o aji          Jo     J
29 Rombion                 64 Davao Oriental             7\       h      0o0   tuan
30 Palawan                  C5 Davao                  An el             *   i
V  BICOL                       EB Davao del Sur
31 CamarinesNorte           67 Soarth Cotabato Olon gPHIap                                                                            PIN E                     
32 Camarines Sat        XiCENTRAL MINOANAO
33 Catanduanes             68 Lanao del Norte
34 Albay                   69 Lanao del Sur
3b Sorsogon                 70 North Cotabato                                   p
36 Masbate                 71 MaguindanaN
72 Sultan Kudarat
sourH  CHINA                                               IV                        SIBUYAN
5 E A                                                    i;                                             (            r            s1
SEA0 E    a0 3
-12'                                                                                                                                                                                           2
50                                                                                                                                                                                             80b7HES  VA    4
L.~~ PrtILlPrinces
0550                                      S                                C SSES          SEA 
MALt   At                                                              T  his maphasIene prepared Sy the Waltf BTank's claM eac/aicely o'erthe cuo'eniance
~~~~~~~~~/ 1  ,                                                a/Ste rheeadersa/the repastra ethicS Otis attartred. The deesesaiana tonred aedthe
t   g   rr    . s                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~baundarien ahoean an thin reap da nut erg/V. oe the PErr of the World t7ash and its
t   ,   rqW         v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o~~ffiliates,any judgmenten the legal Statueo atany tewrnitry a, eendorsement at
5 INDf  Nl ET  I A             -AaNeptaee of Sak oaundaries.
n'-1,}>  1200                                                                                                           1240                                                            1280



