Document of                               -
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3378-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
June 23, 1981
Projects Department, Agriculture II
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    =  Pesos (P) 7.5
P  1.00    =  US$0.133
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES = METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                 =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)               =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)         0.3881 square miles
1 meter (m)                    -   39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (cu m)           =   35.31 cubic feet
1 millimeter (mm)              -   0.039 inches
1 kilogramn (kg)               =   2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
APPU    -  Agricultural Project Preparation Unit (of MOA)
ARO     -  Agricultural Research Office (of MOA)
BAEcon  -  Bureau of Agricultural Economics (of MOA)
BAEx    -  Bureau of Agricultural Extension (of MOA)
BAT     -  Bureau of Animal Industry (of MOA)
BCOP    -  Bureau of Cooperatives (of MOA)
BPI     -  Bureau of Plant Industry (of MOA)
BS      -  Bureau of Soils (of MOA)
DBP     -  Development Bank of the Philippines
ETD     -  Extension Training Division (of BAEx)
FAO/CP  -  Food and Agriculture Organization (of the U.N.) Cooperative Program
FNP     -  Food and Nutrition Plan
FNRI    -  Food and Nutrition Research Institute
IPB     -  Institute of Plant Breeding (of UPLB)
IRRI    -  International Rice Research Institute
MOA     -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOB     -  Ministry of the Budget
NEDA    -  National Economic and Development Authority
NFAC    -  National Food and Agricultural Council (of MOA)
NFA     -  National Food Authority
NNC     -  National Nutrition Council
NSDB    -  National Science and Development Board
')CARR   -  Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research
PDED    -  Project Development and Evaluation Division (of MOA)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PMC     -  Project Management Committee (of MOA)
PMO     -  Project Management Office (of MOA)
PPD     -  Planning and Programming Division (of MOA)
RCC     -  Research Coordinating Committee (of MOA)
RIARS   -  Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Station
SSD     -  Special Studies Division (of MOA)
UPLB    -  University of the Philippines, Los Banos Campus
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
VISCA   -  Visayan State College of Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1 . . . .  l
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  1 . .  1
Agricultural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            2
Experience with Past Lending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
2.  AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . .             6
Ministry of Agriculture  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research  .            9
University of the Philippines, Los Banos . . . . . . . . . .    10
Food and Nutrition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
3.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Identification and Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Detailed Features:                                                       13
Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
Technology Generation  ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  13
Technology Verification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations * * *            14
Applied Communications . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    14
Plant Breeding . . . . . . . . . .  .  . .   .  . . . . . . .   14
Small-Farm Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Plant Regulatory Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Commodity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Plant Certification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Plant Quarantine   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Livestock Regulatory Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Feed Analysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Livestock Quarantine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Livestock Field Services . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .   17
Livestock Disease Diagnosis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Vaccine Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
vaccine QIullity Ccntrol  -. .     . . . . . . .  . . . . . .       18



-2-
Page No.
Agricultural Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Project Preparation Service. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Data Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
National Nutrition Survey. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Project Implementation
Project Management Office. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Transportation .20
4. PROJECT COST AND FINANCE.. . . . . . .    21
Cost  Estimates   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  21
Financing              ..21
Procurement    . . ..25
Disbursement . .    .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               26
Accounts and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ..27
Project Management    ..27
Food and Nutrition Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Agribusiness   ..28
Training   ..28
Agricultural Research Office . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Agricultural Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Technology Generation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Technology Verification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Regional Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Applied Communications    ..30
Plant Breeding   ..30
Small-Farm Systems       ..                                   30
Plant Regulatory Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Livestock Regulatory Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Agricultural Planning    ..31
Project Preparation Service.              .31
Data Development . . . . . .         .32
National Nutrition Survey. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .   32
6.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Benefits   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32
Justification             ..33
Sensitivity             ..34
Risks  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  35
7.  RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36



-3-
Page No.
ANNE XE S
1.  Detailed Cost Tables, Tables 1-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
2.  Overseas Consultants Terms of Reference . . . . . . . . . . .  62
3.  Estimated IBRD Disbursements  ....  .  .  .  .....  .  .  .  .   .   65
4.  Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  66
5. Project Management Office and Monitoring Unit
Terms of Reference  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  67
6.  Economic Analysis, Tables 1 and 2   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  69
CHARTS
Chart 1: Reorganized Ministry of Agriculture (May 1981)
Chart 2: Organization for Project Implementation
(Explanatory Notes with charts)
MAP
IBRD #15455
WORKING PAPERS (in Project File)
1. Agricultural Research and Institutions
2. Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations
3. Plant Regulatory Services
4. Livestock Regulatory Services
5. Agricultural Planning
6. Project Implementation






PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
1.  BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Republic of the Philippines has requested
Bank assistance in financing a project aimed at enhancing the agricultural
research, regulatory and planning capability of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). The project would complement the National Extension Project,/l
appraised in 1978 and designed to strengthen MOA's agricultural extension
service. It also supports the nationwide Food and Nutrition Plan (FNP),/2
presented to the Philippine Consultative Group meeting in January 1981.
1.02      A condition of the National Extension Project was a reorganization
of MOA designed to decentralize its technical Bureaus to 12 new Regional
Offices (Chart 1). Under the reorganization,/3 the Bureaus (plant, animal,
soils and extension) gave up most of their functions in the regions except
for a few select activities, national in scope, related to crops, livestock
and soils. As a result, the Regional Offices have taken over responsibility
for most agricultural activities within their regions. Seventy eight
Provincial Agricultural Officers have been appointed to deal with extension,
plant, animal, soil, and cooperative work at the provincial level and to
supervise the District Agricultural Officers. The respective
responsibilities of MOA Central Office, the Bureaus, and the Regional
Offices, are set out in MOA Administrative Order No. 2 Series of 1981.
1.03      The FNP has three key objectives:
(a) to increase and diversify production of food and other agricul-
tural commodities, and to continue to achieve gains in the product-
ivity of both land and labor;
(b) to improve the diet of all Filipinos; and
/1 Philippines: National Extension Project Staff Appraisal Report No.
2049-PH. East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, October 24, 1978.
/2 Philippines: Food and Nutrition Plan - Objectives and Strategies.
MOA, Manila, December 1980.
/3 Authorized by Presidential Decree No. 1579, June 11, 1978: "Amending
Presidential Decree No. 461 to create Ministry-wide Regional Offices
in the Ministry of Agriculture."



(c) to assure a basic minimum diet for those who are undernourished.
Apart from direct intervention to provide food supplements for the most needy,
implementation of the FNP requires increased farm production for consumption
and for export or import substitution, and improved marketing efficiency.
These measures will make new demands on the country's agricultural services
including planning and research.
1.04      The proposed project also provides a base for two projects which
MOA is preparing for possible Bank financing - the commercial tree crops and
second rainfed agricultural development projects. Both of these will depend
on the development and testing of new crop and farm-system packages specific
to the areas to be developed. The project also provides a foundation for
later projects including a national agricultural research project and
prospective regional projects for which the Government intends to seek Bank
assistance.
1.05      The project has been the subject of several Government Working
Papers, and was described in the Identification /1 and Preparation /2
Reports prepared by FAO/CP working in association with the Agricultural
Projects Preparation Unit (APPU) of MOA. This report is based on the
findings of a Bank appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Parbery, ter Vrugt
and Kim (Bank), and Messrs. Coaldrake and Whittem (consultants), which
visited the Philippines during April-May 1980, and of a follow-up mission in
October 1980 comprising Messrs. Parbery, ter Vrugt and Kim.
Agricultural Sector
1.06      Agriculture dominates the Philippine economy.  Over 30 million
people, or 70% of the population, live in rural areas. Agriculture accounts
for 30% of GNP, employs over half the nation's labor force, and contributes
about 60% of foreign exchange earnings. About 70% of the nine million hec-
tares of land under cultivation is used for growing cereals, of which rice and
corn predominate. Approximately 1.2 million hectares are irrigated, mainly
for rice production; the remainder is planted to rainfed annual and perennial
crops, including tree crops.
1.07      Although agriculture's share of GDP has been declining by comparison
with other sectors, there was a steady rise in food production averaging 5.3%
per annum during the 1970-79 period, when rice production expanded at 4.7% per
annum and legumes and fruits at 8.2% and 6.8%, respectively. This was facili-
tated by strong Government initiatives including substantial investments in
irrigation infrastructure, high-yielding varieties and technical packages
/1 Philippines: Agricultural Support Services Project Identification
Report.  FAO/CP Report No. 41179 PHI 20.  September 1979.
/2 Philippines: Agricultural Support Services Project Preparation Report
Volumes I, II and III. FAO/CP Report No. APPU-80-000. February 8, 1980.



- 3 -
coupled with extension and farm credit. The Bank assisted both the irriga-
tion and credit programs by funding a series of projects in these two
subsectors.
1.08      There has been substantial growth in the commercial production of
pigs (5.7% per annum) and poultry (6.1% per annum) over recent years, but the
rates of growth for cattle (2.3% per annum) and water buffalo (1.8% per
annum) have not matched the increase in human population which is growing at
about 2.5% annually. The national demand for livestock protein is expected
to increase by about 40% for beef, pork, and poultry, over the same period.
1.09      Rice is by far the most important crop, in terms of human consump-
tion, comprising about 105 kg per capita out of a total average per capita
consumption of 310 kg of crop produce. Principally through the introduction
of a rice production support program known as Masagana 99, the country
achieved self-sufficiency in 1977.  Since then, the Philippines has been
able to export small quantities of rice annually.
1.10      Masagana 99 was part of a national food self-sufficiency program,
created in 1969 under the administrative supervision of MOA and coordinated
by the National Food and Agricultural Council /1 which has the Minister of
Agriculture as chairman.  NFAC programs to achieve self-sufficiency in the
production of other crops such as corn (Maisan 77), fruits and vegetables
(Gulayan sa Kalusugan), and efforts to encourage multiple cropping have had
mixed success because of management and disease control problems.
Insufficient production of cornbased feedstuffs appears to be a major
constraint affecting livestock development which has increased only slowly
over the last decade. The private sector has taken the lead in introducing
high-yielding disease-resistant varieties, but it will be some time before
these can be introduced to large numbers of small farms.
1.11      Farm prices for rice and other major crops are generally below world
market levels. However, the recent increase (October 1980) in paddy rice
price to P 1.45 per kilo and concurrent upward adjustments in the prices of
other food commodities are bringing them closer to international levels, and
should stimulate production.
1.12      Despite favorable developments in production and farm prices, as
many as 40% of rural families are believed to earn incomes below the level
required to provide adequate nutrition and essential goods for minimal
standards of living. According to the first national nutrition survey,/2
/1 NFAC is a policy making body charged with the coordination of the
National Food Self-sufficiency Program, created in 1969 under the admnis-
trative supervision of MOA with the Minister as Chairman.
/2 Philippines: First Nationwide Nutrition Survey, 1978. Food and
Nutrition Research Institute, Manila. October 1979.



-4-
and the Bank-s recent report on poverty in the Philippines,/2 the average
Filipino diet provided only 89% adequacy in food energy. More than 30% of
urban and rural households, comprising six members on average, were found to
consume diets with less than 80% of energy adequacy.
1.13      The Philippines has 2.35 million farm units, 85% of which are
smaller than 5 ha.  The national average farm size is 3.6 ha.  Even marginal
land, particularly in the low areas, has already been brought under cultiva-
tion because of population pressure. Since new land availability is limited,
most increases in production have to come from established areas by
increasing productivity.
1.14      The proposed project has been designed to address some of the above
problems of the agricultural sector. It will focus on increasing the
production of crops other than rice, particularly food crops, with an
emphasis on developing small-farming systems to improve land productivity,
thereby improving farm incomes and diets and assisting in the alleviation of
rural poverty.
Experience with Past Lending
1.15      The proposed Agricultural Support Services Project is the third
Bank assisted project to be implemented by MOA. The first was the National
Extension Project (Loan 1626-PH, US$35 million) which aims to strengthen
the extension service through the provision of improved facilities, equip-
ment, additional technical staff, and training with the objectives of: (a)
increasing crop and livestock production, (b) improving the quality of rural
life by providing higher incomes, as well as better nutrition and home
management; and (c) reducing rural unemployment by assisting out-of-school
youths to establish backyard farming enterprises. Management of the Project
is the responsibility of the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx), and
its Director is Project Manager. Since he has transferred most of the
functions of his former line Bureau to the 12 new Regional Offices, he
applies himself almost fulltime on implementation of the Project. After a
slow start, while the Ministry worked out new procedures for handling a
project of such magnitude and adjusted to the reorganization, the project is
gaining momentum and purchases of vehicles and equipment, the construction
of extension centers, the appointment of new staff, technician and farmer
training, and three consultancies are underway. Although substantial
amounts have been committed, disbursements lag significantly behind
appraisal estimates, principally because of MOA's unfamiliarity with the
procedures concerning loan withdrawal. Steps are being taken by Government
to remedy this situation.
/1 Aspects of Poverty in the Philippines. A Review and Assessment,
Volumes I and II. East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. December 1,
1980.



- 5 -
1.16      The first Rainfed Agricultural Development (Iloilo) Project (Loan
1815-PH, US$12 million) was the second Bank-assisted activity through MOA.
The loan became effective in June 1980 and is in the early stages of implemen-
tation.  The project is applying rice-based multiple cropping "Kabsaka"
technology, developed by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in
cooperation with MOA, to raise agricultural productivity of lowland areas
within Iloilo Province (Region VI) which have sufficient rainfall for crop-
ping, but are without irrigation.
1.17      The Rainfed Project has a wide range of components.  It promotes
livestock investments, along with multiple cropping, and includes small-scale
water impounding and irrigation, investments to improve marketing and
transport of products as well as nutrition for rural families, institutional
reform and manpower training.  It also provides assistance for applied
research and the preparation of a future rainfed project. A coordinating
committee, at MOA Central Office, and a management unit in the field, have
been established to implement the project. Start-up has been slow due to the
complexity of some of the early implementation arrangements, which have been
modified subsequently by reducing the number of representatives on the
interagency project coordinating and project management committees.
1.18      In addition to the projects which are being implemented directly
under the auspices of MOA, the Bank has for many years been supporting
livestock and some crop development through various credit projects. Among
the credit projects which have been completed are two livestock projects
funds for which were channelled through the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), and three rural credit projects which were funded through
the Central Bank/rural banks. Project completion reports have been prepared
on the First Livestock Credit project and the first three Rural Credit
projects. The lessons learned concerned mainly the need for institutional
strengthening which have been taken into account in designing the ongoing
Third Livestock/Fisheries credit project. The need to meet a multiplicity
of needs faced by the farmers which is not served by a single purpose loan
is reflected in the proposed project by the importance which is being
attached to small-farming systems research.



- 6 -
2. AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND INSTITUTIONS
2.01      Both the private and public sectors are involved actively in
servicing the Philippine farming community. The public sector is primarily
concerned with policy formulation and planning, the generation and testing of
technology, the promotion of its use through the extension service, and, to a
lesser extent, the maintenance of livestock and the marketing of produce.  The
Government also provides a substantial part of rural credit needs through the
Central Bank to a network of rural banks, the Philippine National Bank, the
Development Bank of the Philippines, and the Land Bank which assists land
reform beneficiaries.
2.02      The private sector imports, produces and distributes fertilizers,
pesticides, feedstuffs and veterinary supplies, distributed by more than 2,000
licensed dealers operating, competitively and efficiently, through retail out-
lets in every municipality of the country. Some dealers advance credit for
farm inputs and others provide technical advice, including farm trial plots.
The private sector also plays the major role in purchasing, processing, and
distributing marketed farm products. Even where Government commodity agencies
exist, such as the National Food Authority (NFA) or the Philippine Coconut
Authority, private traders often act as intermediaries between farmers and the
agencies. Private rural banks, the principals of which are generally affluent
people from the provinces in which the banks operate, provide about 12% of
farm credit.
2.03      Within the Government, responsibility for the agricultural sector is
divided among a number of Ministries and a large number of related institu-
tions and agencies. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is the lead Ministry;
other important Ministries include Natural Resources (responsible for
fisheries, forestry, with some land classification and soil conservation);
Agrarian Reform; Education and Culture; Local Government and Community Deve-
lopment (mainly small-scale projects); Public Works which contains the
National Irrigation Authority; and Human Settlements which operates a large
number of rural projects in addition to urban. The recently created National
Food Authority (NFA), which has superseded the National Grains Authority /1
/1 "Reconstituting the National Grains Authority to the National Food
Authority, broadening its functions and powers, and for other purposes.
Presidential Decree No. 1770, January 14, 1981.



and become independent of MOA, could have an important bearing on future
food and nutrition work. However, the precise nature of NFA-s programs
(other than those inherited from the National Grains Authority) is not yet
clear.
Ministry of Agriculture
2.04      Although it is the principal Ministry servicing the agricultural
sector throughout the country, MOA has generally been short of funds to
implement its programs.  To overcome this problem, several revenue-producing
corporations, which are Government-owned and controlled, have been created
(Chart 1). Other attached, and supervised, agencies which are funded both by
MOA and from supplementary sources have also been created. The Ministry's
budget is applied directly to its Central Office services, including Planning,
Management, Administration, Crops and Livestock under the control of Assistant
Secretaries; a computer facility; and a coordinating unit which liaises with
the Ministry of Agrarian Reform.
2.05      MOA includes six technical Bureaus: the Bureaus of Plant Industry
(BPI) and Animal Industry (BAI) established in 1929; the Bureau of Soils
(BS) in 1951; the Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx) in 1952; the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) in 1963; the Bureau of Coopera-
tives Development (BCOD) transferred from another Ministry in 1980; and 12
new (1980) Regional Offices which have absorbed most of the former functions
of the Bureaus in their regions (para. 1.02). The Bureaus' remaining
principal function is to provide advice to the Minister and his senior staff
on technical and policy maters. The Bureaus were never funded adequately to
perform all their functions. It was in recognition of this problem that the
Bank supported the National Extension Project which provides substantial
support to BAEx.
2.06      MOA's medium and long-term planning functions have been handled by
its planning service, which comprises three divisions: Project Development
and Evaluation (PDED), Project Planning and Programming (PPD), and Special
Studies (SSD). The preparation of projects for external financing is
handled by the Agricultural Project Preparation Unit (APPU), which was
created with funds provided by the Bank under the Smallholder Treefarming
and Forestry Project (Loan 1506-PH). MOA has recently implemented steps to
bring together its planning, programming, and project preparation capabi-
lities. Under the new arrangements, while APPU and the Planning Service
retain their separate identities, PDED is being linked with APPU in project
preparation; PPD will assume a new function and will be responsible for
implementing the FNP; and SSD will become a policy making arm of the
Ministry. SSD's research (survey) function will be transferred to BAEcon.
2.07      Before reorganization, the Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) was
responsible for applied research on agricultural crops; the production of
improved seed and plant material; the protection of crops from pests and
diseases; the development and improvement of farm equipment, structures and



- 8 -
practices; or any other function related to crops as prescribed under the law.
It is one of the two oldest Bureaus and was the key agency in the crop
production programs executed by NFAC during the 1970s (paras. 1.09 and
1.10). It has a good performance history. Operational divisions included
agricultural research (mostly of an applied nature), seed and plant produc-
tion services (including seed certification), crop protection services
(including plant quarantine), and field trial services. BPI also had
agricultural engineering and laboratory services divisions, including
laboratory facilities, to complement the four crops division. The
Philippines is a signatory of the Plant Protection Convention of FAO, and a
member of the Plant Protection Committee of Southeast Asia and the Pacific.
It is bound to conduct rigid commodity inspections and affect the necessary
treatment of exported plant products, to satisfy the requirements of
importing countries. Under reorganization (para. 1.02), BPI has given up
many of its stations and functions to the Regional Offices, but has retained
responsibilty for commodity analysis in its central laboratory complex,
plant certification, and quarantine; matters that are national is scope.
2.08      The Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) is also a long established
agency with a good performance history within the confines of limited funding,
since plant and crop production, rather than livestock, have always been given
top priority by government. Before reorganization, it serviced the nation's
livestock industries with seven operational divisions: research and deve-
lopment, animal disease control, livestock (poultry) and dairy development,
diagnostic and laboratory, animal feed control, meat inspection, and general
administration and support services. The Bureau-s head office is in Manila,
but it operated stock farms, conducted applied research, maintained breeding
stations, and had diagnostic and veterinary laboratories all around the
country, some of which it has retained after reorganization since the Regional
Offices are not yet equipped to assume total responsibility for livestock
activities.  BAI also is responsible for national livestock quarantine, and
vaccination programs against major pests and diseases. Generally, the
laboratory and field facilities of BAI are inadequate due to a lack of funding
to perform the services for which they were designed.
2.09      The Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) is a younger agency
within MOA, and a less influential one in that it has always been a staff
Bureau, with no line function in the regions although it has offices there.
However, it provides essential services to national programs of intensified
food production and rural development. The Bureau has four main activities:
estimates and statistics, economic research, data processing, and marketing
services. Itts head office is in Manila, but staff are distributed throughout
the country. BAEcon is to be strengthened by the transfer to it of the
research (surveys) function of the Special Studies Division of MOA-s Planning
Service, since functions of the two agencies tend to overlap. Under regional
reorganization, BAEcon retains its regional facilities independent of the
new Regional Offices of MOA.
2.10      The 12 Regional Directors and 24 Deputy Regional Directors of MOA
are responsible directly to the Minister. All the Directors and Deputy



Directors are former senior Bureau staff who were serving in various parts
of the country. The Regional Offices are assuming responsibility from the
technical Bureaus for most of the field research, experimental and service
stations.  These facilities have not been fully operational mainly due to
lack of funding. As a first step in building up the strength of the
Regional Offices, one Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Station
(RIARS) would be developed from an existing MOA station in each region.
Staff for the RIARS would be drawn from former Bureau staff. They would be
responsible for undertaking applied research programs to verify improved
small-farm systems technology developed at the national research centers and
the Universities, before it is released to farmers through the extension
service.
2.11      MOA employs almost 21,600 staff, about 8,770 of which are assigned
to the regions. More than 80% are technical and less than 20% are adminis-
trative personnel. About 84% of staff hold either college degrees in
agriculture or related subjects or certificates, but the standards of higher
education offered by the country's many agricultural universities vary
considerably and are sometimes low by international comparison. Only 150
staff (0.7%) hold postgraduate credentials. The Ministry is particularly
short of highly qualified staff to provide technical leadership in applied
research, laboratory analysis, planning, project preparation and
implementation.
Agricultural Research
2.12      Philippine Council for Agriculture and Resources Research (PCARR).
In addition to the work of the Bureaus of MOA, agricultural research in the
Philippines is conducted by many universities and institutions. It is
coordinated by PCARR which is attached to the National Science Development
Board (NSDB) under the Office of the President. The policy making body of
PCARR is its Governing Council which has the chairman of the NSDB as
chairman, and the Ministers of Agriculture and Natural Resources as vice
chairmen. A Technical Program Planning and Review Board, chaired by the
PCARR Director, serves in an advisory capacity to review national research
programs, formulated by the national and regional research centers, before
they are referred to the Governing Council for approval. A secretariat in
Los Banos comprising a core staff in seven technical units (crops, fisheries,
livestock, forestry, mines, soils and water, and socio-economic research)
organizes National Commodity Teams which draw on local expertise to
coordinate, review, and evaluate national and regional research programs.
PCARR itself has only a small administrative budget but the agency is
empowered to allocate government funds earmarked for agricultural research.
Public revenue for agricultural and natural resources research is
appropriated from the special science fund, commodity tax levies, private
sector contributions, and foreign aid. Private foundations and bilateral
assistance are also tapped for grants or loans.
2.13      The agricultural research programs approved by PCARR-s Governing
Council, are the basis for all agricultural and natural resources research
in the country. In 1978, the Governing Council approved the creation of a



- 10 -
national research network made up of four multi-commodity national research
centers,/l five single commodity research centers,/2 nine regional research
centers7,/3 and 111 cooperating field stations. To strengthen research
capability at the network's centers and stations, PCARR allocated funds from
two USAID soft loans (US$5 million in 1975, followed by US$10 million in
1979), to a comprehensive development program including site and utility
development, infrastructure, and the general provision of modern research
facilities. In addition, an extensive manpower development program was
initiated, for both degree and nondegree workers throughout the country,
utilizing the USAID loans. PCARR's network of research stations and centers
also undertake location specific verification trials, and disseminate
successful results through an applied communications service which provides
support to the seven technical units of the secretariat and produces
outreach materials, develops indicative extension materials, and assists in
the analysis of research problems.
2.14      University of the Philippines, Los Banos (UPLB).  The College of
Agriculture in UPLB was established in 1909 as one of the first two colleges
of UP.  Since that time it has grown into the first autonomous campus of UP,
and is a reputed National and Asian center for higher education, research and
training in all fields related to agriculture and rural development. The
College has benefitted over the years since the second world war from
extensive assistance from American institutions particularly the College of
Agriculture at Cornell University in New York State with which it had a
USAID funded mutual exchange contract for a long period. UPLB's agricultural
education program was supported under the First Education Project (Loan
393-PH), and the Colleges of Forestry and Veterinary Medicine and the
Department of Animal Science were assisted substantially under the Fourth
Education Project (Loan 1374-PH). The new Animal Science Department, and
the College of Veterinary Medicine complex, should be completed within two
years. Besides the various technical departments, the core of the UPLB
research complex is the Institute of Plant Breeding (IPB) established in
/1  The University of the Philippines at Los Banos, the Central Luzon State
University, the Visayan State College of Agriculture (VISCA) and the
University of Southern Mindanao.
/2  The Forest Research Institute at Los Banos, the Philippine Sugar
Commission (at La Granja), the Philippine Coconut Authority, the
Philippine Tobacco Research and Training Center, and the Philippine
Cotton Research and Development Training Center.
/3  Mariano Marcos State University, Isabela State University, Mountain
State Agricultural College, Palawan National Agricultural College, La
Granja Experiment Station (BPI), Central Mindanao University, Davao
Experiment Station (BPI), Camarines Sur Agricultural College, and
Philippine Rootcrops Research and Training Center (VISCA)



- 11 -
1975, the National Crop Protection Center, established in 1976, and the
National Institute of Biotechnology and Applied Microbiology, established in
1979. A fourth institute, for Post Harvest Horticultural Research and
Training, also belongs to the College of Agriculture. Plans are being
prepared to add four additional institutes on: farming systems, soil
resources, the food industry, and animal production and health. The IPB
would be supported directly under the proposed project.
2.15      IPB's programs, developed and executed in collaboration with the
Departments in the College of Agriculture, deal with the development, testing,
and multiplication of new crop varieties. They are reviewed annually by an
advisory board, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, providing an essential
link with the MOA. The IPB is headed by a Director and has six crop research
groups, six specialized research laboratories, and three service units for
farm operations, seed production and distribution, and a germplasm bank all of
which need additional funding to support new research programs on small-
farming systems.
2.16      The Department of Agronomy, built up under the Cornell program
within the College of Agriculture, would also be supported by the project
under which it would be responsible for initiating a small-farm systems
research program which could later become another institute program under
ULPB. The Department has an impressive record in crop research, and is well
placed to expand its programs to further benefit small farmers,
complementing the work at IPB.
Food and Nutrition
2.17      The National Nutrition Council (NNC) was created in 1974 as a policy
making and coordinating body to formulate a national nutrition plan under the
Philippine nutrition program. The NNC is constituted with the Chairman/
Coordinator of NFAC (the Minister of Agriculture) as chairman, the Minister of
Health as Vice Chairman, and the Ministers of Education and Culture, Local
Government and Community Development, Social Services and Development, and
the Chairman of the National Science Development Board (NSDB), as members.
Representatives from the private sector include the executive director of the
Nutrition Center of the Philippines, and the presidents of the Philippine
Medical Association, and the Nutrition Foundation of the Philippines.



- 12 -
2.18      The government-s central agency for research into food and nutri-
tion, which has grown tremendously over recent years, is the Food and Nutri-
tion Research Institute (FNRI), an implementing agency of the NSDB. The FNRI
was created in 1973 and its functions include coordinating nutrition research
activities, by both government and private agencies, serving as a clearing
house for nutrition data and information, and promoting a national nutrition
program. The FNRI was responsible for conducting the first national nutrition
survey which was the basis for the national Food and Nutrition Plan (para.
1.03), and would receive funds under the proposed project for the second
nationwide nutrition survey.
3. THE PROJECT
Identification and Preparation
3.01      The targets for increased agricultural production set in the Food
and Nutrition Plan (FNP) (para. 1.03) and the strategies to attain them will
place new demands on the agencies servicing the agricultural sector, particu-
larly those within the jurisdiction of MOA. Strengthening some of the
decentralized agencies of MOA under the National Extension Project is helping
the Ministry to meet this challenge. However, without complementary invest-
ments in other related support services, the efforts in agricultural
extension are unlikely to be maximized.
3.02      Pursuing the objectives of the FNP will require increasing invest-
ment in agricultural research to ease technical, social, and economic
constraints on production and productivity. As the already heavy pressure on
land increases, more emphasis should be given to designing and testing farm
systems with intensive land use, and to developing land conservation
measures. Both make demands on research and regulatory services which the
Government is presently ill-equipped to meet. The envisaged major
agricultural expansion programs will need to be supported by strong insti-
tutions and programs for planning, monitoring and staff development. It was
with these broad considerations in mind that MOA proposed the project.



- 13 -
Objectives
3.03      The project would, over a six year disbursement period beginning in
FY82:
(a) strengthen agricultural research capability in the Philippines by
(i) providing MOA with funds, to be channelled through the PCARR
network, in support of farm technology generation; and (ii) directly
supporting UPLB-s established Institute of Plant Breeding (IPB), and
the farm systems research program being developed within the
Department of Agronomy;
(b) strengthen applied agricultural research and experimental capability
of MOA, by providing the Ministry with a technology verification
fund;
(c) strengthen the new Regional Offices of the MOA, by upgrading nine
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARs) on which
appropriate small-farm technology, covering crops and livestock,
would be tested before being released for farmer use through the
extension service;
(d) strengthen two MOA staff Bureaus responsible for regulatory matters
affecting crops and livestock;
(e) strengthen MOA Central Office by improving project planning,
preparation, implementation, management, and monitoring capability
specifically by funding staff training, and special studies on
food, nutrition, and the rural economy; and
(f) provide for a second national nutrition survey to be conducted by
the Food and Nutrition Research Institute (FNRI).
3.04      To implement MOA-s components, a Project Management Office (PMO)
would be established within the Ministry, responsible to a Project Management
Committee (PMC) headed by the Minister of Agriculture (Chart 2). UPLB and
FNRI would be responsible for implementing their components.
Detailed Features
Agricultural Research (US$29.60 million)
3.05      Technology Generation.  Coordination of agricultural research in the
Philippines is the responsibility of the PCARR (paras. 2.12 and 2.13) which
allocates funds to many programs around the country. The more fundamental
work is carried out at the national centers, including UPLB (para. 2.14).
Under the project, a technology generation fund would be provided to MOA which
would support work at these centers. Each project proposed would be



- 14 -
scrutinized by MOA and be funded under a MOA-PCARR contract which would
specify the executing agency in the PCARR network. Funds provided under the
project would primarily support research projects in food and feed crops,
and small-farm systems including backyard livestock. Expenditures would be
for agricultural research equipment and incremental operating costs (Annex 1,
Table 1). Contracts would be processed by the Agricultural Research Office
(ARO) in MOA (para. 5.08) after the projects had been reviewed and cleared by
a Research Coordinating Committee (RCC)(para. 5.09) to be established in MOA.
3.06      Technology Verification.  Funds would be provided under the project
to develop MOATs capacity to undertake applied agricultural research, parti-
cularly the testing of existing, new or modified small-farm systems, on the
Ministry's own field stations where technology packages could be tested under
controlled conditions, and on farmers fields. These funds would also be
processed by the ARO, after clearance by the RCC, and would be expended on
civil works, equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs (Annex 1,
Table 2).
3.07      Regional Integrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARS).  Since
small-farm systems research needs integrated facilities for crops, livestock,
soils and management research, funds would be provided under the project to
upgrade one existing MOA research station in each region into a RIARS (para.
2.10) in nine of the country-s 12 regions, with which the 12 new regional
offices of MOA correspond. The three omitted are Regions III and VI where
RIARS are already funded from other sources, and Region I where more work is
required to select and design an adequate site (technical assistance for this
purpose would be provided). Investments under the project would include site
and utilities development, buildings, machinery, equipment, supplies, and
incremental operating costs (Annex 1, Table 3). The RIARS are designed to
test not only the small-farm systems technology generated within the stations
but also research results from other sources in the PCARR network. The RIARS
would bring together the technical expertise of staff formerly in the line
Bureaus under the administrative supervision and management of the Regional
Directors of agriculture. Before new technology is released to the extension
service, research results from the RIARS would be unified by teams of
provincial agriculturalists who would conduct trials on farm fields. To
ensure that successful new technology is incorporated quickly into the
extension system, National Extension Project subject matter specialists would
also be following research work in the RIARS.
3.08      Applied Communications.  PCARR would receive direct funding under
the project for its applied communications service (para. 2.13) including
office and photographic reproduction equipment, and incremental operating
costs (Annex 1, Table 4) to improve the flow of technical information from the
research centers to the extension service and other users.
3.09      Plant Breeding.  UPLB is the leading national center in agricul-
tural research. Its college of agriculture is internationally recognized,
and its Institute of Plant Breeding (IPB) (para. 2.15) well respected. To



- 15 -
assist Philippine farmers to diversify into other crops, besides the basic
food grains of rice and corn, the project would support an expanded program
of work at IPB by providing for experimental farm and laboratory development,
improved variety seed production, the establishment of a germplasm bank,
vehicles, training, and incremental operating costs (Annex 1, Table 5).
3.10      Small-Farm Systems.  In support of the rapidly expanding interest
in whole-farm development, the Agronomy Department of UPLB (para. 2.16), in
collaboration with the IPB, is embarking on a new program of small-farm
systems research.  The program would be supported by the project with
investments in experimental supplies, laboratory and field station
equipment, vehicles, training and incremental operating and maintenance
costs (Annex 1, Table 6).  Some of the programs will be carried out in the
regions, in cooperation with the national research centers, and will be
linked to MOA½s technology verification program.
Plant Regulatory Services (US$5.22 million)
3.11      Commodity Analysis.  The central laboratory complex of BPI (para.
2.07) supports the Bureau's research and experimental programs by providing
analytical services.   It determines the physical, chemical and micro-
biological properties of agricultural commodities, carries out quality control
analysis of fertilizers, lime, chemicals, compost, plant material, and
feedstuffs; and grades and classifies a wide range of products for export.
Work is at present constrained by inadequacies in the numbers and training of
personnel, frequent breakdowns of old and practically unserviceable equipment,
and lack of space.  To overcome these deficiencies, and also to enable the
complex to support a plant certification service, the project would provide
for new staff, laboratory and other equipment, laboratory extensions, one
vehicle, technical training, and incremental operating costs (Annex 1, Table
7).
3.12      Plant Certification.  Seed certification is an established service
of BPI, under the Philippine Seed Board, but an improved plant material certi-
fication service is essential to ensure that the planned program of agricul-
tural diversification and expansion into new crops, particularly rubber,
coffee and cocoa, is carried out with high yielding, disease resistant cul-
tivars which will yield produce of export standard. The service should
include: evaluation and registration of plant materials, establishment of
foundation groves of proven varieties, registration of nurserymen for the
production of certified plant materials, and a nursery inspection service.
BPI (para.  2.07) has some facilities at headquarters in Manila for plant
certification work - an office and two screenhouses needing renovation - but
there are no suitable offices or laboratories on the three field stations
where foundation nurseries and seed gardens are to be established. There is
little laboratory equipment available in Manila, and none at the other
centers.  The project would include investments for staff and staff training,
office and laboratory development and equipment, three foundation nurseries,



- 16 -
eight regional nurseries and seed gardens (mostly on existing BPI stations),
specialized budwood nurseries for rubber and clonal seed gardens for cacao
(Annex 1, Table 8).
3.13      Plant Quarantine.  Plant quarantine is the first line of defense
against the introduction of pests and diseases into a country. Once diseases
are in the country, quarantine also has a role in restricting the spread of
the harmful organisms. The Philippines, being an archipelago of about 7,000
islands, where rural products are of prime importance for consumption and
export, has great need for an effective plant quarantine service.  Existing
BPI (para. 2.07) plant quarantine facilities are inadequate to provide
effective services. The project, as a first step in upgrading the service,
would provide funds to BPI for equipment and infrastructure at 12 major ports
of entry /1 around the country; a post-entry quarantine station near Manila
where introduced plant material could be held for up to two years; and
expansion of staff to carry out the additional duties (Annex 1, Table 9).
Livestock Regulatory Services (US$8.25 million)
3.14      Feed Analysis.  The BAI (para. 2.08) central feed laboratory is
responsible for conducting analyses of animal feedstuffs to assist the Animal
Feed Control Division in its task of regulating and controlling the import,
production, sale and quality of feeds (amounting to about 12 million 50-kilo
bags worth US$80 million annually). It performs similar analyses on feed
constituents for special purposes, including research projects in animal
nutrition, and toxicological analyses for the diagnostic laboratory. A
relatively new, spacious and reasonably well-equipped facility for feed
analysis exists at Diliman which needs accessories so it can perform an ade-
quate service to meet the increasing demand for feed analysis which is
expected to rise sharply as the livestock industries expand, and to extend
its range of analyses to include energy and quality indices. Investments
for accessories to the existing central laboratory, the construction of
seven smaller regional laboratories in Regions I, III, V, VIII, IX, X and
XII (in addition to four already existing in Regions II, VI, VII, and XI),
equipment for the 11 regional laboratories, air conditioning, additional
staff and overseas technical assistance (Annex 2), are provided under the
project to make the central and regional laboratories fully operational
(Annex 1, Table 10).
3.15      Livestock Quarantine.  The Animal Disease Control Division of BAI
(para. 2.08) is responsible for animal quarantine services which are provided
at all main ports of entry to the country. Facilities at Diliman (Manila)
/1 The network of facilities will be completed by the Philippine-German
assistance program which is to provide for most of the principal
provincial ports.



- 17 -
have been closed down due to urbanization with the consequence there is no
location near the capital's port where animals can be isolated and quaran-
tined. Construction of a new facility at Alabang has begun, but additional
funds are needed for completion. Investments are provided under the project
for site development including access roads, stock-proof fencing, and a waste
treatment plant; equipment for the station office, small laboratory, and
stock and feed handling; three vehicles; and incremental operating costs
(Annex 1, Table 11).
3.16      Livestock Field Services.  The field services of BAI (para. 2.08)
serve mainly small farmers who own about 75% of the pigs, poultry and cattle,
as well as 95% of the water buffalo (carabao) in the country. The services
dispense improved breeds of livestock, promote rural youth backyard livestock
enterprises, and provide artificial insemination. The services also diagnose
diseases and vaccinate for control. Additional funds are required under the
project to allow the services to be transferred to MOA's regional offices so
they can function more efficiently as a base for the expansion, development
and diversification of the livestock industries. Investments would be pro-
vided to BAI and the Regional Offices to upgrade existing livestock services,
including 12 cattle trucks, and equipment for the dispersal program, based at
six of the larger breeding stations; equipment for the field officers, such
as thermos jugs, refrigerant packs, syringes and hypodermic needles; minor
equipment items for the 150 personnel in the artificial insemination program
including two liquid nitrogen packs for those activities in the Visayas and
Mindanao; and incremental operating costs for the dispersal and vaccination
programs (Annex 1, Table 12).
3.17      Livestock Disease Diagnosis.  Well-equipped, and regionally
dispersed laboratory services for the diagnoses of animal diseases are
essential for the disease control activities of BAI (para. 2.08) responsi-
bility for which is now passing to the Regional Offices of MOA. Reliable
diagnostic capability is equally necessary for human health campaigns, such as
the control of rabies. Present diagnostic services are operated by the
Laboratory Services Division of BAI, which is also responsible for the
chemical analyses of feeds, and the production and quality control of
vaccines. Diagnostic facilities currently operated by the Division include a
poorly equipped central laboratory on the campus of the University of the
Philippines at Diliman, and two regional laboratories at Davao (Region XI)
and Lipa (Region IV), also poorly equipped. To strengthen the service, the
project would over the next five years upgrade and equip the central labo-
ratory, and establish seven modest regional laboratories in Regions I, III,
V, VII, VIII, IX and X (BAI already has funds for upgrading and establishing
laboratories in the five remaining regions). Investments for the central
laboratory would include additional laboratory space, animal housing, labo-
ratory equipment, overseas technical assistance (Annex 2) for the selection
of specialized equipment and the training of staff, and incremental operating
costs. Investments for the regional laboratories would be for buildings,
equipment, vehicles and incremental operating costs (Annex 1, Table 13).



- 18 -
3.18      Vaccine Production.  An adequate supply of effective vaccines,
capable of inducing immunity to the country's significant infectious diseases
of livestock is doubly important in the Philippines because animals provide
not only food but also much of the farm power required to produce food and
export products. Introducing modern vaccines, and testing them, requires
specially designed buildings, relatively sophisticated equipment, an assured
supply of high quality laboratory materials and chemicals, and well trained
staff. BAI's (para. 2.08) central vaccine production laboratory at Diliman
and its extension of Pandacan, Manila are cramped, sparsely furnished,
almost devoid of equipment, and lack animal accommodation. Because of these
deficiencies, aggravated by staff problems, BAI has not been able to meet
the demand for vaccine./l BAI would prefer that vaccines be produced and
distributed by the private sector, and negotiations have been proceeding for
some time to let the BAI laboratory for this purpose. Whether run by BAI or
private interests, the facilities need upgrading. Provision is made in the
project for: modifications and improvements to the existing facilities;
vehicles; laboratory, service and library equipment; overseas technical
assistance (Annex 2) to conduct a feasibility study of the proposal before
funds are committed; and incremental operating costs (Annex 1, Table 14).
3.19      Vaccine Quality Control.  Vaccines have to be tested for safety
(non-disease inducing) and potency before they can be released to farmers.
While there is some capability for this work within BAI (para. 2.08), the
increases in vaccine production projected by BAI would necessitate an
improved capability for vaccine quality control testing in the Philippines.
The project would provide funds for renovation of the existing laboratory at
Diliman; modification and extension of associated animal housing, and fencing;
construction of laboratory animal breeding facilities at Alabang stock
quarantine farm to produce pathogenic free small stock; laboratory and office
equipment for the existing facility; overseas technical assistance (Annex 2)
for vaccine quality control procedures; and incremental operating costs
(Annex 1, Table 15).
Agricultural Planning (US$4.45 million)
3.20      Project Preparation Service.  The Agricultural Project Preparation
Unit (APPU) of MOA was established under the Bank assisted Smallholder Tree-
farming and Forestry Project (Loan 1506-PH) (para. 2.06). Responsible to a
Deputy Minister, through the Assistant Secretary for Planning, the APPU now
prepares most MOA projects, including those funded by international agencies.
The project would provide continued support for APPU, as a special unit
within MOA, after its funding provided under the Smallholder Treefarming and
Forestry Project is fully utilized by 1984. APPU's functions overlap with
/1  Current production of haemorrhagic speciticaemia vaccine is about 10% of
requirement, hog cholera 6%, and newcastle disease about 5%.
Deficiencies are made up by imports.



- 19 -
those of the Project Development and Evaluation Division (PDED) of MOA-s
Planning Service, and MOA is linking the two agencies (para. 2.06). The
combined APPU-PDED unit would: (a) assist in the transfer of planning
responsibilities from the small planning units of the former Bureaus, to the
new Regional Offices of MOA which will need modest planning capability to
cooperate with the National Economic Development Authority's (NEDA) regional
planning and to assist in the formulation of the regional investment
development programs which are being prepared for all 12 regions of the
country; and (b) collaborate with the Planning and Programming Division
(PPD) of the Planning Service, with BAEcon, and with the Regional Offices of
MOA, to formulate new projects, most of which will be designed to achieve
the objectives of the FNP.  The project would fund incremental salaries,
technical assistance as required to assist with project preparation, and
incremental operating costs (Annex 1, Table 16).
3.21      Data Development.  The Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) is
responsible for studies that assist MOA in planning and policy matters
affecting the rural industries, and the rural economy. Under the project,
four main activities of BAEcon, strengthened by the transfer of part of the
Special Studies Division (SSD) of the Planning Service (para. 2.09), would
be supported:
(a) establishment of regional agricultural data collection and delivery
systems in five Regional Offices of MOA (additional to the two
already established) on crop and livestock production in the
regions, provinces, municipalities, and barangays (villages). The
data would provide MOA and the Regional Offices the base for policy
formulation and regional planning;
(b) development and maintenance of an integrated management information
system to provide MOA with information on the progress of agricul-
tural programs;
(c) improvement of MOA's data processing capabilities; and
(d) support for research in statistical methods to strengthen the
Bureau's overall performance.
The regional offices of BAEcon would be funded to undertake surveys and
studies on socio-economic subjects, energy-consumer price linkages, and sugar
cane as an energy source.  Overseas technical assistance (Annnex 2) would be
provided to assist with the design of these studies, as well as the data
collection and delivery and management information systems outlined above.
The project would also provide funds for: special studies, local
consultancies as required, data processing and office equipment, and
incremental operating expenses (Annex 1, Table 17).



- 20 -
3.22      National Nutrition Survey.  The first nationwide human nutrition
survey in the Philippines was conducted during 1978 by the Food and Nutrition
Research Institute (FNRI) (para. 2.18), and published in 1979./i It became
the basis for the FNP. The FNRI would receive support under the project for
the second national nutrition survey in 1982 which would improve the data base
for the FNP. Investments would be provided for data processing and computer
services, equipment, vehicles, overseas technical assistance (Annex 2) to
refine survey methodology, and incremental staff operating costs (Annex 1,
Table 18).
Project Implementation (US$8.87 million)
3.23      Project Management Office (PMO).  A Project Management Committee
(PMC) (para. 3.04) responsible for implementing the project through a PMO
would be established by MOA Central Office and be funded by the project. In
turn, PMC would relate to and fund associated MOA agencies responsible for
implementing components of the project, including those designated to carry
out agricultural research cleared by the Research Coordinating Committee
(RCC). Funds would be provided by PMO for FNP related, and agribusiness acti-
vities at the national and regional levels through studies, seminars and work-
shops. The training needs of the project would be funded by PMO and carried
out by a training unit to be established within it. Since the project would
expand many programs within MOA, for which existing staff would be reassigned,
new demands would be made on the professional skills of staff concerned
(para. 2.11). This would result in a need particularly for in-service train-
ing, which would be carried out by the training unit under the PMO. Approxi-
mately 40% of MOA's staff would benefit from graduate and nondegree training,
and in-service refresher courses under the project. Investments to be provid-
ed through PMO would include vehicles and equipment, consultancies, studies,
training, overseas technical assistance (Annex 2), and incremental operating
costs (Annex 1, Tables 19-23).
3.24      Transportation.  MOA owns a twin engined Cessna aircraft for facili-
tating the movement of its staff around the country, since MOA operations
extend to many more of the 7,000 islands which constitute the Philippines than
lie within the network of commercial carriers.  Because the availability of
aviation gasoline is being curtailed under the country's new energy code, the
aircraft's engines need to be modified to use turboprop fuel.  The cost of
this conversion and associated spare parts are included in the project
(Annex 1, Table 24).
/1 First Nationwide Nutrition Survey, Philippines, 1978. Food and
Nutrition Research Institute, National Science Development Board.
Manila. October, 1979.



- 21 -
4.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs over the five-year investment period FY82-86 are
estimated at US$77 million equivalent (Table 4.1) including US$2.5 million
in identifiable taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$31 million, 40% of the total project cost. The relatively high foreign
exchange component is attributable to the high import content of the civil
works, specialized equipment, and vehicle components of the project. The
limited provision for vehicles takes into account funds already provided for
motorcycles and utility vehicles made for the Ministry under the National
Extension Project. Costs for consultants (US$2.5 million) are based on
monthly allowances of US$8-10,000 for foreign personnel (80 manmonths), and
P 4-10,000 (US$533-1,333) for locally recruited consultants (2,800
man-months including 1,651 for FNRI and FNP activities). Project costs are
based on unit prices prevailing in mid-1980, indexed to mid-1981. Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 10% for staff, operational and
maintenance costs; 15% for civil works, vehicles and equipment. Overall
physical contingencies amount to US$6.9 million and price contingencies
US$13.7 million. For indexing and computing price contingencies the following
annual international and domestic expected price increases were used:
ANNUAL INFLATION RATES (%)
1980    1981    1982    1983   1984   1985   1986
Foreign            12.3    9.0      8.5      8.0    7.5    7.0    6.0
Domestic           18.0   14.0    10.0       8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Subsequent annual recurrent costs due to the project, for which the Government
would be entirely responsible after the fifth year, would approximate
US$10.0 million, inclusive of contingencies.
Detailed project costs are provided in Annex 1, Tables 1-24.
Financing
4.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$45 million (60% of project cost net of
taxes, or 58% including taxes) would cover the foreign exchange costs of US$31
million plus US$14 million equivalent of local costs. The need for Bank
financing of a part of the local cost stems from a shortage of counterpart
funds in the Philippines. The remaining US$31 million would be provided by
Government. All reimbursements under the Bank loan would be made directly to
the Government to partly cover expenditures under the project by MOA, UPLB



- 22 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COST
Foreign       (%) of
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total    exchange    base cost
---- (P million)            --- (US$ million) ---         ()
Agricultural Research
Technology generation                   23.97   10.51   34.48        3.20    1.40    4.60          30
Technology verification                 34.18   10.62   44.80        4.56    1.42    5.97          24
Regional integrated agricultural
research stations (RIARS)             55.50   29.42   84.92        7.40    3.92   11.32          35
Applied communications                   0.49    0.53    1.02        0.07    0.07    0.14          52
Plant breeding                          22.85   23.03   45.88        3.05    3.07    6.12          50
Small-farm systems                       7.66    3.21   10.87        1.02    0.43    1.45          30
Subtotal                            144.65   77.32  221.97    19.29   10.31   29.60            35             52
Plant Regulatory Services
Commodity analysis                       2.53    2.16    4.69        0.34    0.29    0.63          46
Plant certification                      7.40    3.73   11.13        0.99    0.50    1.48          34
Plant quarantine                        15.35    7.96   23.31        2.05    1.06    3.11          34
Subtotal                             25.28   13.85   39.13        3.37    1.85    5.22         35              9
Livestock Regulatory Services
Feed analysis                            3.20    3.43    6.63        0.43    0.46    0.88          52
Livestock quarantine                      2.64    2.07    4.71       0.35    0.28    0.63          44
Livestock field services                  1.97    9.19   11.16       0.26    1.23    1.49          82
Livestock disease diagnosis              5.39    9.52   14.91        0.72    1.27    1.99          64
Vaccine production                       3.95   15.21   19.16        0.53    2.03    2.55          79
Vaccine quality control                  2.13    3.22    5.35        0.28    0.43    0.71          60
Subtotal                             19.28   42.64   61.92        2.57    5.69    8.25         69             15
Agricultural Planning
project preparation service              3.45    0.04    3.49        0.46    0.01    0.47           1
Data development                        15.56    4.02   19.58        2.07    0.54    2.61          21
National nutrition survey                7.63    2.66   10.29        1.02    0.35    1.37          26
Subtotal                             26.64    6.72   33.36        3.55    0.90    4.45         20              8
Project Implementation
Administration                           5.49    0.21    5.70        0.73    0.03    0.76          24
Transportation                         0.94    2.98    3.92        0.12    0.40    0.52          76
Research                                 4.68    0.21    4.89        0.62    0.03    0.65           4
Food and nutrition                       7.19    1.84    9.03        0.96    0.25    1.21          20
Agribusiness                              3.70    0.55    4.25       0.49    0.07    0.56          13
Training                                 9.54   29.22   38.76        1.27    3.90    5.17          75
Subtotal                             31.54   35.01   66.55        4.19    4.68    8.87         53             16
Project cost before contingencies        247.39  175.54  422.93    32.98   23.41   56.39             42           100
Physical contingency                    30.47   21.62   52.09        4.06    2.88    6.94          42            12
Price contingency                       67.92   34.99  102.91        9.06    4.67   13.73          34            24
Total Project Cost                  345.78  232.15  577.93    46.10   30.96   77.06             40           137



- 2 3 -
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN BY COMPONENT
(US$ million)
Government        IBRD
Component                                Amount   %    Amount   %   Total
Agricultural Research                      12.75   43    16.85   57   29.60
Plant Regulatory Services                   2.58   49      2.64   51    5.22
Livestock Regulatory Services               3.04   37      5.21   63    8.25
Agricultural Planning                       2.76   62      1.69   38    4.45
Implementation                              2.13   24      6.74   76    8.87
Contingencies                               8.78   42    11.89   58   20.67
Total                                   32.04   42    45.02   58   77.06
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN BY ACTIVITY
(US$ million)
Government        IBRD
Activity                                 Amount   %    Amount   %   Total
Civil Works                                 2.92   20    11.69   80   14.61
Equipment                                   2.35   23      7.95   77   10.30
Vehicles                                    0.27   22      0.94   78    1.21
Salaries                                    7.14  100         0    0    7.14
Training                                    0.93   15      5.28   85    6.21
Consultants                                 0.00    0      2.52  100    2.52
Incremental Operating Costs                 9.65   67      4.75   33/a 14.40
Contingencies                               8.78   42    11.89   58   20.67
Total                                   32.04   42    45.02   58   77.06
/a   Laboratory chemicals and equipment replacements, livestock feed
concentrates, and agricultural research chemicals.



- 24 -
Table 4.4: FINANCING PLAN BY IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
(US$ million)
Government        IBRD
Agency                             Amount  %Z   Amount X   Total
Ministry of Agriculture
Management Office                          8.92   46    10.52   54   19.44
Project Preparation Service                0.25   53      0.22   47    0.47
Bureau of Agricultural Economics           1.79   69      0.82   31    2.61
Bureau of Plant Industry                   2.58   49      2.64   51    5.22
Bureau of Animal Industry                  3.04   37      5.21   63    8.25
Regional Offices                           2.98   26      8.34   74   11.32
Subtotal                               19.56   41    27.75   59   47.31
Philippine Council for Agricultural
Research and Resources                     0.08   57      0.06   43    0.14
University of the Philippines, Los Banos
Campus
Institute of Plant Breeding                1.85   30      4.27   70    6.12
Department of Agronomy                     0.99   68      0.46   32    1.45
Subtotal                                2.84   38      4.73   62    7.57
Food and Nutrition Research Institute        0.78   57      0.59   43    1.37
Contingencies                                8.78   42    11.89   58   20.67
Total                                  32.04   42    45.02   58   77.06



- 25 -
and FNRI. Project financing arrangements are summarized in Tables 4.2, 4.3
and 4.4. Funds have been appropriated in the 1981 budget to facilitate
starting up the project.  An assurance confirming that this money is available
was obtained at negotiations.
Procurement
4.03      Civil works (US$14.6 million) would include construction of staff
housing, laboratories, greenhouses, screenhouses, fumigation rooms, machinery
sheds, storage sheds and bins, local access roads and fences. In addition,
there would be office renovations in the BPI and BAI components. The civil
works are scattered over the country, and mostly phased over the first three
years of the project.  For these reasons, and considering the diverse and spe-
cialized nature of the works, only contracts of US81.0 million equivalent or
above would be submitted to international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Others would be carried out by contractors in accor-
dance with local procedures satisfactory to the Bank, or by force account when
local competitive bidding is not feasible.
4.04      Equipment (US$10.3 million) and vehicles (US$1.2 million) would be
procured through international competitive bidding. A preference margin of
15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the prevailing customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids.
4.05      Specialized items and items purchased in small quantities such as
laboratory equipment costing not more than US$50,000 per item, but not
exceeding US$2.0 million in aggregate, would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding advertised nationally in accordance with government
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Aeroplane engine conversion and spare
parts for operation and maintenance costing not more than US$650,000 in
aggregate would also be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding,
and in the event only one qualified supplier bids, Bank approval of the work
estimate would be required before the contract is let.
4.06      Off-the-shelf items such as office supplies costing not more than
US$20,000 per item, but not exceeding US$500,000 in aggregate would be
purchased through prudent shopping, requiring at least three quotations.
4.07       Specialized consultants internationally recruited (Annex 2) and
local consultancies costing US$10,000 equivalent or above would be appointed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Their terms of reference
would be prepared by the Project Manager and submitted to the Bank before
approval by the PMC. Terms of reference for local consultancies costing less
than US$10,000 equivalent would be prepared by the Project Manager and be
approved by the PMC. Reports of the latter consultants would be examined
regularly by Bank project review missions.



- 26 -
Disbursement
4.08      Disbursements from the loan would cover:
(a) 80% of civil works expenditures (US$14.6 million);
(b)  (i)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported items;
(ii)  100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
items; and
(iii)  65% of total expenditures for locally procured items;
of equipment (US$10.3 million) and vehicles (US$1.2 million),
totalling US$11.5 million; and
(c) 100% of total expenditure for consultants' services (US$2.5
million) and overseas training (US$5.3 million).
4.09      Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account and
items costing less than $5,000 purchased locally would be made against
certified statements of expenditure; disbursements for other expenditures
would be made against full documentation. All statements of expenditure would
be reviewed and approved by the Project Manager prior to submission to the
Bank; supporting documents would be retained in the PMO and made available for
review by Bank supervision missions. A schedule of estimated disbursements
over six years is presented in Annex 3. The five year implementation schedule
is presented in Annex 4.
Accounts and Audit
4.10      Project implementing agencies including MOA Offices and Bureaus,
PCARR, UPLB and FNRI would maintain separate accounts for the project in
accordance with sound accounting practices, and would ensure that these
accounts were audited annually by independent auditors in line with procedures
in other Bank-assisted projects. MOA would submit certified copies of the
audited accounts and auditors' reports to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of the Philippine fiscal year.
4.11      The audit report would certify that funds disbursed against state-
ments of expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. Assurances were obtained from MOA at negotiations that the
above-mentioned accounting and auditing procedures would be followed, and that
the accounts and auditors' reports would be forwarded to the Bank by June 30
each year following loan effectiveness.



- 27 -
5. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01       MOA would have overall responsibility for implementing the project.
The Ministry, including three Bureaus and the 12 new Regional Offices, would
deal with most of the project components, but funds for applied communications
and technology generation would be processed through the PCARR. Funds for
UPLB and FNRI would be passed directly to those organizations by MOB.
5.02       The reorganization of the Ministry during 1980 has resulted in the
reassignment of many staff.  MOA would prepare an intial staffing plan,
summarizing the duties of personnel and how they would be deployed between the
Central Office, the Bureaus, and the Regional Offices as described in the
Administrative Order (para. 1.02).  An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that such a staffing and deployment plan be prepared by January 31, 1982.
Project Management
5.03       The Project Management Office (PMO) (para. 3.23) would be under the
control of a Project Manager who has already been appointed. The PMO would
be responsible for budgeting and documenting MOA-implemented components of
the project (Table 4.4), and would liaise with the Bids and Specifications
Subcommittee (already established within MOA to service the National
Extension and the Rainfed (Iloilo) Projects) on procurement. The PMO would
also establish a monitoring unit to measure the progress of implementation by
MOA and outside agencies and to provide information for decision-making to the
project manager. Conversion of MOA½s aeroplane engines (para. 3.24) would
also be the responsibility of the PMO. The terms of reference for the PMO and
its monitoring unit were agreed at negotiations (Annex 5).
5.04       The Project Manager would be responsible for submitting an annual
progress report on the project to the Bank not later than three months after
the end of each Philippine fiscal year (by March 31) following loan effective-
ness until the loan is disbursed. He would answer to a Project Management
Committee (PMC), comprising the Minister, or a Deputy Minister, as chairman,
with the Project Manager, appropriate Assistant Secretaries of MOA, and a
representative from MOB, as members. It is a condition of loan effectiveness
that the PMC be established.
5.05       Food and Nutrition Plan.  The existing Planning and Programming
Division (PPD) which has been reorganized under Administrative Order No. 2 of
1981 would be responsible for implementation of the project components
supporting the FNP. The PPD would liaise with NEDA to ensure that FNP
projects are compatible with the national and regional plans of NEDA, and that
budgetary provision for such plans is made by MOB. It would also liaise with
other members of the Philippine nutrition family, such as the National
Nutrition Council (NNC), to minimize duplication of effort. The PPD would
advise the Project Manager on staff requirements, new or reassigned; design



- 28 -
studies to help implement the FNP; program workshops in support of the FNP;
improve regional FNP-related planning capabilities; and hire consultants as
required, from local or overseas sources, to advise the Ministry on FNP
matters. An internationally recruited adviser would be appointed to assist
with this work, and to help the PPD design a series of studies, in colla-
boration with BAEcon and FNRI, to determine effective measures to enhance the
nutrition of families in depressed areas. Initially, six regions (Regions II,
III, IV, VI, X, and XI) would receive emphasis.
5.06      Agribusiness.  The Planning and Programming Division of the Planning
Service (PPD) would also be responsible for agribusiness activities under
the project. PPD would help to achieve objectives of the FNP by improving
linkages between producers and markets, and sponsoring studies to improve the
profitability of farms. In carrying out its functions, PPD would liaise
with SSD of the Planning Service on policy formulation, with BAEcon on
data development, with BAEx to obtain feedback from farmers, and with ARO
on research programming. PPD would draw on expertise from the private sector,
as well as from within MOA, and would assist the Minister in implementing
Presidential Decree 1159 which sets down the agricultural incentives provided
by Government. Small regional agribusiness councils would be established to
encourage investments in commodity processing, and other enterprises, around
the country. The regional agribusiness councils would comprise government and
private industry representatives working in the agricultural sector. They
would relate to the Regional Development Councils, already operational in each
of the 12 regions, through the MOA Regional Directors who would be Chairmen of
the regional agribusiness councils. It is a condition of loan effectiveness
that MOA designates PPD to be responsible for the food and nutrition, and
agribusiness components of the project. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the Regional Directors would appoint 12 small regional
agribusiness councils (one in each region) by July 31, 1982.
5.07      Training.  Programs for training (para. 3.23) would be drawn up and
implemented by a training unit to be established under the PMO in accordance
with recommendations to be submitted by the training officers from the
Extension Training Division (ETD) of BAEx (where six of the Ministry-s 10
training officers work), the other technical Bureaus and MOA Central Office.
It is a condition of loan effectiveness that MOA establishes the training unit
under the PMO to be responsible for training under the project.  On comple-
tion of the project, the training unit would become the responsibility of
the Assistant Secretary for Administration and Finance in MOA.
5.08      Agricultural Research Office (ARO).  An ARO has been established in
MOA to serve as the secretariat for the RCC which is responsible for the
Ministry-s research activities.  Under the project, the ARO would prepare the
final lists of equipment to be procured and technical personnel to be hired or
reassigned; draft detailed engineering designs for infrastructure, including
housing, laboratories, roads, water supplies, and fencing; and draft MOA
research programs. The ARO would draw on technical expertise from the



- 29 -
Bureaus, and consultancy funds would be provided in the project for any
additional assistance required. The Office would coordinate, monitor, and
evaluate the work of the research divisions of the new staff Bureaus
responsible for national research programs, and that of the MOA Regional
Offices responsible for regional research. The Office would liaise with the
Planning Service to ensure that the proposed research programs relate to the
objectives of the FNP, and reflect MOA priorities. It would draw together the
necessary expertise to formulate and execute integrated small-farm systems
research on the RIARS, and coordinate the programs contracted outside MOA
under the technology generation fund.  The ARO has a Director and two
Assistant Directors for Operations and Research. Three senior research
coordinators, to liaise with the regions, would be appointed from MOA staff to
serve in the ARO. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the three
senior research coordinators would be appointed by January 31, 1982.
5.09      The ARO would be responsible to a Research Coordinating Committee
(RCC) to comprise appropriate Bureau Directors, the ARO Director, the
Director General of PCARR, and the Minister, or his designate, as Chairman.
The RCC would provide the link between the Ministry's expanding research
program, and the PCARR network, and be the authority for research within MOA.
The RCC would meet at regular intervals to review, approve and evaluate MOA
research proposals. The RCC would also decide when new farm technology was
sufficiently tested to be released to the extension service. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the RCC be established by January 31, 1982 and
that research programs funded by the project would be submitted by the Project
Manager to the Bank annually, by the end of October, for comment prior to
their approval by the RCC.
Agricultural Research
5.10      Technology Generation.  The technology generation fund (para. 3.05)
would be applied by the ARO under a master contract between MOA and PCARR.
Specific research proposals would be cleared by the RCC, and approved by the
PMC, until the fund is exhausted.  Projects would have a food production and
small-farm systems focus. The work would be done at any of PCARR's
agricultural research centers, including UPLB which has a developing farm
systems research program.
5.11      Technology Verification.  The technology verification fund (para.
3.06) would be administered by the ARO. The programs would be reviewed by
the RCC before approval and funding by the PMC. The fund would be used for
applied and adaptive small-farm systems research on the RIARS and other MOA
stations as well as on farmers' fields.  The work would have a regional and
provincial focus. Programs would be conceived in the regions and would be
designed to respond directly to local farmer needs.  Provincial teams would
play a part in the verification work by taking the technology from the RIARS
to farm fields for further testing before adoption by farmers. The subject
matter specialists from the National Extension Project would follow the work



- 30 -
at all levels through participation in the teams so they would be in a
favorable position to extend promptly to farmers, through the extension
service, new technology approved by the RCC.
5.12      Regional Research.  The funding of nine Regional Integrated Agricul-
tural Research Stations (RIARS) under the project (para. 3.07), together with
the two (Regions III and VI) funded from other sources and one not yet selec-
ted (Region I), would be reviewed by the RCC before approval and funding by
the PMC. Staff in each RIARS would be former line Bureau staff, headed by a
research coordinator to link the RIARS with the Regional Office, and a RIARS
manager, responsible for day-to-day operations. Research programs in the
RIARS will generally have a small-farm systems emphasis and will be formu-
lated first in the regions, approved by the regional research committees,
and would be reviewed and endorsed by the RCC before being submitted to the
PMC for approval and funding. Programs for upgrading the RIARS would be
drafted in the regions and would be submitted to the RCC for approval.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that 12 RIARS would be identified
by January 31, 1982, one in each region, and that 12 managers be appointed.
5.13      The new regional offices of MOA would establish regional research
committees, under the chairmanship of the Regional Director, or his designate,
to determine regional research priorities. The regional committees, with
a regional research coordinator as executive officer, would develop programs
for submission to, and review by, the RCC before approval and funding by
the PMC. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that 12 regional research
committees responsible for regionally managed research be established by
January 31, 1982 and that 12 regional research coordinators be appointed by
the same date to act as executive officers of the regional research commit-
tees.
5.14      Applied Communications.  The fund (para. 3.08) would be adminis-
tered by PCARR, being passed directly to it by the PMO, according to an
investment schedule prepared by PCARR and approved by the PMC.
5.15      Plant Breeding.  Investments for IPB under the project (para. 3.09)
would be the direct responsibility of the Director of the Institute. He would
prepare detailed investment plans in collaboration with the Institute's Divi-
sion Heads and would obtain approval from the Institute's Advisory Board
before submitting them to the MOB for funding. The Minister of Agriculture is
the Chairman of the IPB Advisory Board providing a firm link between IPB and
the MOA.
5.16      Small-Farm Systems.  Investments under the project for UPLB
(para. 3.10) would be the responsibility of the Chairman, Department of
Agronomy, or his designate, within the College of Agriculture, in consultation
with the relevant Division Chiefs.  Since some of the envisaged research would
be done in the regions at the national research centers, a contract between
them and UPLB would be required. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that such a contract would be signed by July 31, 1982. In addition, since the



- 31 -
program is related to MOA-s technology verification program, a link would be
established between the two organizations in the form of a joint small-farm
systems research committee to determine research priorities. MOA would he
represented on the committee by staff from the PMO and ARO. PCARR would also
be represented on the committee. The UPLB small farm systems research program
would be approved by the joint committee before being submitted to MOB for
funding. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the committee be
established by July 31, 1982. UPLB would submit annually, by the end of
October, a small-farm systems research program to the Bank for comment prior
to its approval by the joint committee. An assurance to this effect was also
obtained at negotiations.
Plant Regulatory Services
5.17      The Chiefs of the Laboratory, Plant Production, and Crop Protection
Services Divisions of BPI would be responsible, respectively, for preparing
final details of, and implementing, the commodity analysis (para. 3.11), plant
certification (para. 3.12), and commodity quarantine (para. 3.13) components
of the project. Plans would be cleared through the Director of BPI, before
being submitted to the PMO. The Project Manager would, in turn, clear the
submissions through the PMC before funding. Since plant certification is a
relatively new activity for BPI, the existing, but expanded, Philippine Seed
Board, chaired by the Director of BPI, would be designated to review and
approve proposals put forward by the service. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the Philippine Seed Board be so designated by July 31, 1982.
Livestock Regulatory Services
5.18      The Chiefs of the Animal Feed Control, Livestock Field Services, and
Diagnostic and Laboratory Services Divisions of BAI would be responsible,
respectively, for preparing details of, and implementing, the feed analysis
(para. 3.14); livestock quarantine (para. 3.15) and livestock field services
(para. 3.16); and livestock disease diagnosis (para. 3.17), vaccine production
(para. 3.18) and vaccine quality control (para. 3.19) components of the
project. BAI would be assisted by the Regional Offices on implementation of
the feed analysis, livestock field services, and livestock disease diagnosis
components of the Project. Investment plans would be reviewed by the
Director of BAI and the relevant Regional Directors before being submitted
to the PMC for approval and funding.
Agricultural Planning
5.19      Project Preparation Service.  MOA project preparation would be the
responsibility of the APPU-PDED which are being linked (para. 3.20). The
combined unit would report to the PMC on project funded activities. The
appointment of a common director is a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 32 -
5.20      Data Development.  Investments in data development (para. 3.21)
under the project would be the direct responsibility of the BAEcon Director.
To prepare detailed investment proposals for submission to the PMO, he would
collaborate with five division chiefs of BAEcon covering: estimates and
statistics, data processing, economic research, agricultural marketing
services, and field data collection centers. Proposals would be approved for
funding by the PMC. The research (survey) function of the Special Studies
Division (SSD) of the Planning Service would be transferred to BAEcon to
assist with market survey and analysis, and strengthen the Bureau
(para. 2.09). An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the transfer
would be completed by January 31, 1982.
5.21      National Nutrition Survey.  Implementation of the second national
nutrition survey under the project (para. 3.22) would be the direct respon-
sibility of the FNRI Director, who would collaborate with the chief of the
food consumption surveys division, and staff in the sections for field surveys
operation, nutrition statistics, and nutrition economics to plan and execute
the survey. FNRI would forward its survey proposal to the Bank through the
PMO for comment prior to submitting it to the National Science Development
Board (NSDB) for approval. The support for FNRI would provide a link between
MOA and the NNC, since the NSDB is a member of the NNC which is chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that FNRI
would send its survey proposal to the Bank by January 31, 1982 for comment
prior to its submission to NSDB for approval.
6. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The main benefits derived from the project would be improved farm
productivity and incomes, derivecf from improved and expanded agricultural
research, particularly that directed at small-farm systems; rehabilitated and
improved plant and livestock analytical, diagnostic and regulatory services;
and more relevant and adequate agricultural development planning and
associated project preparation. Within MOA, management capability to
implement complex development projects would be enhanced, and such expanded
capability would extend to the new Regional Offices.
6.02      The project complements the National Extension Project, which has
been in operation since 1979. Whereas the benefits of the National Extension
Project would accrue principally to the rice and corn producers, the proposed
project would cover a much wider range of farmers, enterprises and products:
livestock including poultry, pigs, goats, cattle and water buffalo; annual
crops including corn, sorghum, sweet potato, mungbean, soybean, peanut and
cassava; and perennial crops including fruits and nuts, and wood yielding
trees such as ipil ipil (Leucaena sp.). The smaller and poorer farmers would



- 33 -
derive significant benefits from the project since the benefits from
agricultural research investments would flow directly to them via extension
technicians now being appointed. A large proportion of the nation-s 2.35
million farm units could be affected by the project, which would result in
some impact on most of the cultivated farmland. In those terms, the project
would cost about US$33 per farm family, or US$9 per hectare of farmed land.
6.03      Increasing farm production in the Philippines would result in
import substitution and foreign exchange savings (imports of food and food
preparations in 1979 amounted to US$350 million), as well as increased foreign
exchange earnings (agricultural exports totalled US$1.4 billion for 1979).
Imports included many agricultural products, such as cereals and cereal
preparations, dairy products, and animal feeds which could be produced
locally. At the same time, the country has considerable potential for
increased production of exportable agricultural products. Over the next
decade, food crop exports are projected to double from just over 5 million
metric tons to about 11.5 metric tons with exportable livestock products
projected to increase at a slower rate, from about 3,000 metric tons to 4,500
metric tons. Investments under the project would lead to both reductions in
agricultural imports, and increases in exports.
6.04      The project would add to benefits expected from other ongoing Bank-
assisted projects covering livestock, irrigation, rainfed agriculture, credit,
grain processing, and tree farming since those projects were justified in
the absence of the services to be provided by the proposed project.
Justification
6.05      The project does not lend itself to conventional economic analysis
since neither the benefits likely to accrue from agricultural research and
improved support services, nor the speed at which they would materialize, can
be quantified accurately. However, relatively modest increases in
production due to the project will justify it. The methodology for
measuring benefits would correspond to that of the National Extension
Project, where it was estimated that an increase of US$21 million in
production value for rice and corn was needed over that expected without the
project, to reach a 15% ERR on project investments.
6.06      Expected "without project" increases in production from seven major
annual crops /1 vary from 0.5% annually for sweet potato, to 7.7% for peanut
/1  Corn, sorghum, sweet potato, cassava, mungbean (mungo), soybean, and
peanut. Data are relatively reliable for these crops (Annex 6, Table 1)
which account for about one third of total crop production in the
Philippines including grains (except rice), roots and tubers, beans, seeds
and nuts, vegetables, fruits, sugar, coconut, cotton and cocoa.



- 34 -
and average 3.3% per annum overall.  Production value in year 15 is calcu-
lated to reach US$770 million at 1981 prices, or 57% above the base level
(Annex 6, Table 1). With the Project, incremental production in the first two
years would be insignificant, but as the technology packages in the new
smallfarming systems are adopted by farmers, production increases per unit of
land would be substantial.  For example, if incremental production attributa-
ble to the project from the seven major annual crops above, reached US$37
million at full project impact in year 15, representing about a 5% increase in
value above that without the project (Annex 6, Table 2), the economic rate of
return would be 15%. Achievement of this level of incremental production with
the project appears feasible under Philippine conditions. If incremental
production pertaining to livestock and other crops which would benefit from
the Project is also taken into account, a rate of return of 15% would be
feasible even if incremental production from the seven annual crops fell short
of the 5% increase noted above. Experience from other countries has shown
that the long-term economic rates of return from agricultural research
investments are generally higher than 15%./1 /2
Sensitivity
6.07      The partial economic analysis indicates that a modest additional
increase in the value of production from annual crops, building to 4.7% in
year 15, would result in a 15% economic rate of return on project investments
Sensitivity tests show that: (a) if incremental production increased more
slowly and, by year 15 was 20% lower (i.e. a 4.0% increase), the ERR would be
12%, while a faster increase (reaching 5.5% in 15 years) would raise the ERR
to 18%; (b) an increase in costs of 10% would require incremental annual
benefits of 5.1% by year 15 to achieve an ERR of 15%; an increase of 20% would
require incremental benefits reaching 5.7% by year 15. The following tables
summarize the results:
/1 Estimated rates of return for developing countries are in the order of 42%
for applied research and 60% for basic research related to agriculture.
Agricultural Research and Productivity. R.E. Evenson, and Y. Kisler, Yale
University Press, 1975.
/2 A study of the green revolution in India indicated a rate of return to
research investment of 72%.  Cost Benefit Analysis of Agricultural
Research Projects. A. S. Kahlon. Punjab Agricultural University, 1977.



- 35 -
Table 6.1: SENSITIVITY OF THE ERR TO CHANGES
IN INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Annual incremental benefits             Economic rate of
increase by year 15 (%)                  return (%)
4.0                                12
4.7                                15
5.5                                18
Table 6.2: SENSITIVITY OF INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
TO COST CHANGES
Incremental production
needed at full development
Cost increases (%)              to achieve a 15% ERR (%)
10                                   5.1
15                                   5.4
20                                    5.7
25                                    5.9
Given that a 4.7% increase in production which is needed to produce an ERR of
15% does not cover some of the crops and livestock, and given also that it is
at the lower end of the probable range of incremental production, it appears
that the outcome of the project would be an ERR significantly higher than 15%.
Risks
6.08      Risks in this project are of two types:  the first concerns
implementation, the second impact. Implementation depends on a number of
units and agencies designated to undertake the various components of the
project. At present, many of them display inadequacies of staffing or
facilities which the project is designed to overcome. There is uncertainty
regarding the rate of improvement of the institutions concerned, and while
the demands made on them under the project are realistic and practical,
management performance on some components could fall short of expectations
as has been the experience in the National Extension Project (para. 1.15).
6.09      The impact risk concerns the success of the improved research and
regulatory services in achieving increases in farm production and productiv-
ity. By its nature, research and development investments may not always



- 36 -
produce expected results in the given time frame:  the success of investments
in agricultural research and support services are uncertain both as to timing
and the magnitude of benefits. There is little doubt, however, that in the
long run a well conceived research program has a high payoff. In addition,
there are uncertainties regarding farmers receptivity of new technology and
improved services. This problem is already being addressed by improving the
means of dissemination of information under the National Extension Project.
On balance, while the risks are real, they are covered as adequately as
possible by the proposed project design.
7. RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01      During negotations agreement was reached that:
(a) arrangements already made by MOA with MOB for project start-up
funds are satisfactory (4.02);
(b) MOA would follow Bank approved accounting and auditing procedures
and that accounts and auditors reports for the calendar year would
be forwarded to the Bank by June 30 of each year, beginning after
October 31, 1981 (4.11);
(c) MOA would finalize by January 31, 1982 a staffing plan showing
duties and deployment of personnel between Central Office, the
Bureaus and the Regional Offices (5.02).
(d) the Regional Directors of MOA would establish by July 31, 1982 12
regional agribusiness councils (5.06);
(e) MOA would appoint from its staff by January 31, 1982 three senior
research coordinators to serve in the ARO (5.08);
(f) MOA would appoint by January 31, 1982 a Research Coordinating
Committee comprising the Minister, or his designate, as Chairman,
with appropriate Bureau Directors, the ARO Director, and the
Director General of PCARR as members (5.09);
(g) research programs funded by the project would be submitted by the
Project Manager to the Bank annually, by October 31, prior to their
approval by the RCC (5.09);
(h) MOA would identify by January 31, 1982 12 RIARS, one in each
region of the country (5.12);
(i) the Regional Directors of MOA would appoint by January 31, 1982
12 managers for the RIARS to be responsible for day-to-day
operations (5.12);
(j) MOA would appoint by January 31, 1982 12 regional research
committees responsible for regionally managed research, with the
Regional Directors of MOA as Chairmen (5.13);



- 37 -
(k) the Regional Directors of MOA would appoint by January 31, 1982
12 regional research coordinators to provide the link between the
Regional Offices of MOA, the PMO and the 12 RIARs and to act as
executive officers of the regional research committees (5.13);
(1) UPLB would sign by July 31, 1982 a contract for cooperative
small-farm systems research work with the Central Luzon State
University, the Visayan State College of Agriculture and the
University of Southern Mindanao (5.16);
(m)  MOA and UPLB would establish by July 31, 1982 a joint small-farm
systems research committee, and UPLB would submit annually, by
October 31, a small-farm systems research program to the Bank for
comment prior to its approval by the joint committee (5.16);
(n) MOA would designate by July 31, 1982 an expanded Philippine Seed
Board to review and approve proposals put forward by the Plant
Certification Service (5.17);
(o) MOA would transfer by January 31, 1982 the research (survey)
function of the Special Studies Division of the Planning Service to
BAEcon (5.20); and
(p) FNRI would send by January 31, 1982 its national nutrition survey
proposal to the Bank for comment prior to its submission to NSDB for
approval (5.21).
7.02      The terms of reference for the PMO, and its monitoring unit, were
discussed and agreed at negotiations (5.03). The following key actions to
implement the project are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) that MOA would appoint a PMC comprising the Minister, or his
designate, as Chairman, with the Project Manager and appropriate
Assistant Secretaries as members (5.04);
(b) that MOA would designate the Planning and Programming Division of
the Planning Service to be responsible for the food and nutrition,
and the agribusiness components of the project (5.05 and 5.06);
(c) that MOA would establish a training unit under the Project
Management Office (5.07); and
(d) that 140A would functionally link the APPU with the Project
Development and Evaluation Division of the Planning Service
by the appointment of a common Director (5.19).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$45 million equivalent, with a term of 20 years
including a grace period of 5 years.



- 38 -                                      ANNEX I
Table 1
PHILIPP I NE S
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Research - Technology Generation
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                     3,341.1      641.1        -          -          -       3,982.2   85
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                      2,584.6   2,638.2   2,721.8   2,372.3   2,372.3   12,689.2    0
Other /a                      4,099.0   3,529.7   3,628.9   3,274.4   3,274.4   17,806.4    0
Subtotal                 6,683.6   6,167.9   6,350.7   5,646.7   5,646.7   30,477.8
Total before
Contingencies        10,024.7   6,809.0   6,350.7   5,646.7   5,646.7   34,477.8   30
Physical contingency            1,169.5       713.0     635.1      564.7      564.7    3,646.9
Price contingency                  590.5   1,200.7   1,811.0   2,227.0   2,880.9    8,710.1
Total Cost              11,784.7   8,722.6   8 796.8   8,438.3   9,092.3   46,834.8
/a Includes crop, vegetable, livestock, agro-energy and natural fertilizer
research relevant to small-farm systems, and maintenance of equipment.



- 39 -                                      ANNEX 1
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Research - Technology Verification
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Civil works                   1,098.3   1,098.3   2,196.7   2,745.8          -       7,139.0   30
Euipment                        637.0      474.5     949.1   1,186.3         -       3,246.9   75
Vehicles                      1,145.4        -         -          -          -       1,145.4   70
Subtotal                2,880.7   1,572.9   3,145.7   3,932.2           -     11,531.5
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        735.0     735.0      735.0      735.0      735.0    3,674.9    0
Consultants                     232.0      232.0     174.0      116.0      116.0       870.0    0
Other /a                      2,040.0   3,275.1   5,745.6   8,833.2   8,833.2   28,727.3   18
Subtotal                3,007.0   4,242.1   6,654.6   9,684.2   9,684.2   33,272.2
Total before
Contingencies         5,887.6   5,815.0   9,800.4  13,616.4   9,684.2   44,803.7   24
Physical contingency              732.8      660.1   1,137.3   1,558.3       968.4    5,056.9
Price contingency                 361.4   1,050.0   2,825.2   5,427.5   4,991.1   14,655.2
Total Cost              6,981.8   7,525.2  13 762.9  20,602.2  15,643.8   64,515.8
/a  Includes travel, hired labor, on-farm trials, applied research, maintenance
of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Research - Regional Intergrated Agricultural Research Stations (RIARS)
(P -000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (X)
Investment
Civil works                  14,437.9  28,080.3  20,007.3           -          -     62,525.5   26
Equipment                     3,059.2   5,515.6   3,680.2           -          -     12,255.0   82
Subtotal                17,497.1  33,595.9  23,687.5          -          -      74,780.5
Incremental Operating Costs
Other /a                         467.9   1,091.5   2,339.7   3,120.0   3,120.0   10,139.0   30
Total before
Contingencies         17,965.1  34,687.3  26,027.2   3,120.0   3,120.0   84,919.5   35
Physical contingency             2,671.4   5,148.5   3,787.1        312.0      312.0   12,231.0
Price contingency                1,118.7   6,266.9   7,577.7   1,217.7   1,574.6   17,755.6
Total Cost              21,755.1  46,102.8  37,392.0   4,649.7   5,006.5  114,906.1
/a  Includes maintenance of buildings and equipment.



-41 -                                         ANNEX 1
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTUTRAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Research - Applied Communications
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (M)
Investment
Equipment                        395.8        -          -          -          -         395.8   85
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                          45.2       45.2       45.2       45.2       45.2       226.2    0
Other /a                          68.0       68.0       87.4       87.4       87.4       398.0   49
Subtotal                   113.2      113.2      132.6      132.6      132.6       624.2
Total before
Contingencies            509.0      113.2      132.6      132.6      132.6    1,020.0   52
Physical contingency                70.7       11.3       13.3       13.3       13.3       121.8
Price contingency                   28.0       19.8       37.2       51.6       66.7       203.4
Total Cost                 607.7      144.4      183.1      197.5      212.6    1,345.2
/a Includes travel, supplies and materials, and maintenance of equipment.



- 42 -                                       ANNEX 1
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Research - Plant Breeding
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Civil works                   5,378.5   8,605.5   7,529.5          -          -     21,513.4   36
Equipment                     3,033.9   4,854.2   4,247.4          -          -     12,135.8   86
Vehicles                        417.2      667.3      584.0                           1,668.5   70
Subtotal                 8,829.7  14,127.1  12,360.9         -          -      35,317.6
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        443.1      642.5      849.2      849.2      849.2    3,633.1    0
Training                        306.6      663.4   1,020.2       841.8      485.0    3,316.0   85
Other /a                        574.7      747.2      764.3      764.3      764.3    3,614.9   20
Subtotal                 1,324.4   2,053.1   2,633.7   2,455.3   2,098.5   10 565.0
Total before
Contingencies        10,154.1  16,180.2  14,994.5   2,455.3   2.098.5   45,882.6   50
Physical contingency            1,456.9   2,324.4   2,117.5        245.5      209.8    6,354.1
Price contingency                 600.4   2,790.4   4,207.2        950.3   1,064.3    9,612.6
Total Cost              12,211.4  21,295.0  21,319.2   3,651.1   3,372.6   61,849.4
/a  Includes maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



- 43 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Research - Small-Farm Systems
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (X)
Investment
Equipment                     1,032.2       491.2        -         -         _         1,523.5   85
Vehicles                         393.0        -          -         -         -           393.0   70
Subtotal                 1,425.2      491.2        -         -         -         1,916.5
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         682.2      682.2      682.2      682.2      682.2    3,411.0    0
Training                          79.7      135.1      135.1       79.7       79.7       509.2   76
Other /a                         938.9   1,009.6   1,020.9   1,032.4   1,032.4    5,034.4   25
Subtotal                 1,700.8   1,826.9   1,838.2   1,794.3   1,794.3    8,954.6
Total before
Contingencies          3,126.1   2,318.1   1,838.2   1,794.3   1,794.3   10,871.0   30
Physical contingency               383.9      256.4      183.8      179.4      179.4    1,182.9
Price contingency                  184.4      406.0      526.9      713.8      923.7    2,754.9
Total Cost               3,694.3   2,980.5   2 549.0   2 687.5   2,897.5   14,808.8
/a  Includes travel, hired labor, supplies and materials, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
Table 7
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Plant Regulatory Services - Commodity Analysis
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           Total   (X)
Investment
Civil works                      696.8                   -                      -         696.8   30
Equipment                          -      1,902.3        -           -          -       1,902.3   85
Vehicles                          73.0        --                                -          73.0   70
Subtotal                   769.7   1,902.3          -          -          -       2,672.1
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         111.4      216.0      237.3      258.7      258.7    1,082.0    0
Other /a                          20.4      228.1      228.1      228.1      228.1        932.9   30
Subtotal                   131.7      444.1       465.5      486.8      486.8    2,014.9
Total before
Contingencies            901.5   2,34b.5       465.5      486.8       486.8    4,687.0   46
Physical contingency               128.6      329.8        46.5       48.7       48.7       602.3
Price contingency                   56.9      384.1       134.6      194.7      252.0    1,022.2
Total Cost               1,087,.U   3,060.3       t40i.6     730.2      787.5    62311.6
/a  Includes'travel, supplies and materials, maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                                     Table 8
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Plant Regulatory Services - Plant Certification
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Civil works                     958.4        -       292.7      292.7        -      1,543.7   30
Equipment                       200.6      627.5     118.3      320.1       73.6    1,340.1   85
Vehicles                        516.5      308.6      80.8        -        308.6    1,214.5   70
Subtotal                1,675.5      936.1      491.8      612.8     382.2    4,098.3
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        277.0     479.1      609.5      609.5      609.5    2,584.5    0
Consultants                     171.7      160.1     160.1      171.7      160.1       823.2    0
Other /a                        433.6      744.1     744.1      766.8      935.4    3,624.0   35
Subtotal                  882.3   1,383.3   1,513.7   1,547.9   1,705.0    7,032.0
Total before
Contingencies         2,557.8   2 319.3   2,005.5   2,160.7   2,087.1   11,130.4   34
Physical contingency              339.6      278.7     225.1      246.7      227.8    1,318.0
Price contingency                 156.0      400.0     575.6      854.6   1,063.1    3,049.4
Total Cost              3,053.4   2,998.1   2,806.2   3,262.0   3,378.1   15,497.7
/a  Includes travel, hired labor, supplies and materials, maintenance of buildings, equipment
and vehicles.



-46 -                                        ANNEX 1
Table 9
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Plant Regulatory Services - Plant Quarantine
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Civil works                   2,265.3   2,997.5   3,114.2          -          -       8,377.1   30
Equipment                         -      1,271.8      917.7      861.3      747.2    3,798.1   85
Vehicles                        134.7      336.9      336.9      336.9        -       1,145.4   70
Subtotal                 2,400.1   4,606.2   4,368.8   1,198.2        747.2   13,320.5
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        356.8      695.4   1,242.1   1,479.2   1,687.3    5,460.9    0
Other /a                        397.6      690.5   1,003.2   1,183.7   1,257.9    4,533.0   31
Subtotal                   754.3   1,386.0   2,245.4   2,662.9   2,945.2    9,993.9
Total before
Contingencies         3,154.4   5,992.2   6,614.2   3,861.1   3,692.5   23,314.4   34
Physical contingency              435.4      829.5      879.9      446.0      406.6    2,997.5
Price contingency                 199.3   1,058.8   1,903.4   1,514.3   1,885.5    6,561.4
Total Cost               3,789.1   7,880.6   9,397.5   5,821.4   5,984.6   32,873.3
/a  Includes travel, supplies and materials, maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
- 47 -                                   Table 10
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Livestock Regulatory Services - Feed Analysis
(p '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (X)
Investment
Civil works                        -        713.9      951.9        -          -       1,665.8   30
Equipment                        994.5   1,128.6         -          -          -       2,123.1   85
Subtotal                   994.5   1,842.5       951.9        -          -       3,788.9
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         173.0      173.0      173.0      173.0      173.0       864.8    0
Consultants                        -       224.7       224.7        -          -         449.4  100
Other /a                         191.0      334.1      334.1      334.1      334.1     1,527.5   44
Subtotal                   364.0      731.8      731.8      507.1      507.1    2,841.7
Total before
Contingencies          1,358.6   2,574.3   1,683.7        507.1      507.1    6,630.6   52
Physical contingency               185.6      349.5      216.0       50.7       50.7       852.5
Price contingency                   75.7      432.8      478.7      198.2      256.2    1,441.5
Total Cost               1,619.8   3,356.6   2,378.3        755.9      814.0    8,924.7
/a  Includes travel, utilities, supplies and materials, maintenance of buildings and equipment.



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                                       Table 11
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Livestock Regulatory Services - Livestock Quarantine
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Civil works                     883.2   1,191.4         -          -          -      2,074.6   30
Equipment                       274.4      101.7       25.2        1.4        7.6       410.3   85
Vehicles                        301.8        -          -          -          -         301.8   70
Subtotal                 1,459.4   1,293.0        25.2        1.4        7.6    2,786.7
Incremental Operating Costs
Other /a                        349.2      393.6      393.6      393.6      393.6    1,923.7   44
Total before
Contingencies          1,808.6   1,686.7      418.8      395.1      401.2    4,710.4   44
Physical contingency               253.9     233.3       43.1       39.6       40.5       610.4
Price contingency                  107.6     300.9      114.6      150.6      197.5       871.2
Total Cost               2,170.1   2,220.9       576.5     585.2      639.2    6,191.9
/a  Includes travel, supplies and materials, maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



- 49 -                                      ANNEX 1
Table 12
PhiILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Livestock Regulatory Services - Livestock Field Services
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (X)
Investment
Equipment                      1,321.7   1,041.9       361.2      150.5      361.2    3,236.6   85
Vehicles /a                    1,043.6   1,043.6         -          -           -      2,087.2   85
Subtotal                 2,365.3   2,085.5        361.2      150.5      361.2    5,323.8
Incremental Operating Costs
Other /b                         995.7   1,210.1   1,210.1   1,210.1   1,210.1    5,836.2   82
Total before
Contingencies          3,360.9   3,295.7   1,571.4   1,360.7   1,574.1   11,160.0   82
Physical contingency               454.2      433.7       175.2      143.6      175.2    1,382.2
Price contingency                  177.9      520.1      406.6       492.2      735.5    2,332.2
Total Cost               3,993.2   4,249.5   2,153.2   1,996.4   2,482.0   14,874.4
/a Includes heavy duty cattle trucks.
/b Includes supplies and materials, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
- 50 -                                         Table 13
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Livestock Regulatory Services - Livestock Disease Diagnosis
(F '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (%)
Investment
Civil works                    1,068.6      710.5      473.7         -          -       2,252.7   30
Equipment                      1,444.5   1,967.7   1,405.1           3.8      685.7    6,966.9   85
Vehicles                         335.3      268.2         -          -          -         603.5   70
Subtotal                 3Z848.5   2,946.4   1,878.8         463.8      685.7    9,823.1
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         127.0      222.6      302.6       350.6      438.7     1,441.5    0
Consultants                      298.9      298.9      298.9         -          -         896.7  100
Other /a                         432.0      504.7      582.1       659.3      568.7    2,746.7   56
Subtotal                   857.9   1,026.2   1,183.6   1,009.9   1,007.4    5,084.9
Total before
Contingencies          4,706.3   3,972.6   3,062.4         1,473.8   1,693.1   14,908.0   64
Physical contingency               678.0      559.5       370.3      170.6      203.6    1,982.0
Price contingency                  270.8      677.5       759.0      564.0      837.4    3,108.6
Total Cost               5,655.1   5,209.6   4,191.7   2,208.4   2,734.1   19,998.6
/a  Includes travel, supplies and materials, maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



- 51 -                                       ANNEX 1
Table 14
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Livestock Regulatory Services - Vaccine Production
(P -000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (x)
Investment
Civil works                     366.1        -         -          -          -         366.1   30
Equipment                     1,062.3   7,336.1   3,554.6       107.6      104.2   12,164.8   85
Subtotal                1,428.4   7,336.1   3,554.6        107.6      104.2   12,530.9
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                          -         41.3      82.7       88.7       88.6       301.4    0
Other /a                         65.0      838.7   1,319.1   1,806.7   2,298.3    6,327.7   75
Subtotal                    65.0     880.0   1,401.8   1,895.4   2,386.9    6,629.1
Total before
Contingencies         1,493.4   8,216.2   4,956.4   2,003.0   2,491.1   19,160.1   79
Physical contingency              220.8   1,188.4       673.4     205.7      253.4    2,542.6
Price contingency                  84.2   1,310.8   1,310.8       731.0   1,168.9    4,605.7
Total Cost              1,798.4  10,715.4   6,940.6   2,939.6   3,914.4   26,308.3
/a  Includes supplies and materials, and maintenance of buildings and equipment.



- 52 -                                    ANNEX 1
Table 15
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Livestock Regulatory Services - Vaccine Quality Control
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (X)
Investment
Civil works                   1,414.1        -         -          -          -       1,414.1   30
Equipment                       250.4   1,162.8       420.6     109.8       37.7    1,981.3   85
Vehicles                         61.8        -          -         -          -          61.8   70
Subtotal                1,726.3   1,162.8       420.6      109.8       37.7    3,457.2
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         71.1       84.8      99.5      191.7      145.2       592.4    0
Consultants                     448.3      448.3        -         -          -         896.7  100
Other /a                         65.2       81.2       82.8      84.7       86.9       400.6   43
Subtotal                   584.5     614.3      182.3      276.3      232.1    1,889.7
Total before
Contingencies         2,310.9   1,777.1       602.9      386.2      269.8    5,346.9   60
Physical contingency              317.4      235.8       81.3      44.1       28.9       707.5
Price contingency                 136.8      281.0      164.1     151.7      138.0       871.5
Total Cost              2,765.1   2,293.9       848.3      582.0      436.7    6,925.9
/a Includes travel, maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles.



53 -                                       ANNEX 1
Table 16
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Planning - Project Preparation Service
(P '000)
F.E.
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5        Total   (x)
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        128.0      128.0     384.2      384.2      384.2    1,408.7    0
Consultants                     156.6      156.6     388.6      388.6      388.6    1,479.0    0
Other /a                         41.7       41.7     171.1      171.1      171.1       596.8    7
Total before
Contingencies           326.3      326.3      943.9      943.9     943.9    3,484.5    1
Physical contingency               32.6       32.6      94.4       94.4       94.4       348.4
Price contingency                  21.5       61.1     279.4      384.7      498.4    1,245.1
Total Cost                380.4      420.0   1,317.7   1,423.1   1,536.7    5,078.0
/a Includes travel, supplies and materials.



ANNEX 1
- 54 -                                      Table 17
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PRO.JECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Planning - Data Development
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (x)
Investment
Equipment                     1,829.7      984.4      551.9      792.1        -       4,158.1   75
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                      1,200.4   1,637.9   2,129.3   2,754.3   2,754.3   10,476.2    0
Consultants                     726.7      726.7      208.8        -          -       1,662.2   54
Other /a                        586.0      992.6      486.5      609.2      609.2    3,283.6    0
Subtotal                 2,513.1   3,357.2   2,824.6   3,363.5   3,363.5   15,422.0
Total before
Contingencies         4,342.8   4,341.5   3,376.5   4,155.7   3,363.5   19,580.1   21
Physical contingency               525.8     483.4      365.3      455.2      336.4    2,165.9
Price contingency                 259.0      772.2      787.2   1,674.2   1,779.3    5,471.9
Total Cost               5,127.6   5,597.1   4,729.0   6,285.1   5,479.2   27,218.0
/a  Includes travel, rural economic studies, supplies and materials, and
maintenance of equipment.



ANNEX 1
- 55 -                                       Table 18
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Agricultural Planning - National Nutrition Survey
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (x)
Investment
Equipment                       923.4       85.0      130.0       23.3        0.3    1,162.0   85
Vehicles                        205.8        -          -          -          -         205.8   75
Subtotal                 1,129.2       85.0      130.0      23.3        0.3    1,367.8
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        122.4      659.0      284.8      109.3      109.3    1,284.7    0
Training                          -        239.1      199.3      119.6        -         557.9  100
Consultants                     227.6      290.0      670.3      181.2      172.6    1,541.8   39
Other /a                        370.6   1,788.8   1,501.2   1,044.9         836.8    5,542.4    7
Subtotal                   720.6   2,976.9   2,655.6   1,455.0   1,118.7    8,926.8
Total before
Contingencies         1,849.9      3,061.8   2,785.6   1,478.3   1,119.1   10,294.6   26
Physical contingency              241.4      310.4      285.1      149.0      111.9    1,097.9
Price contingency                 104.5      557.4      786.0      591.6      587.8    2,627.3
Total Cost               2,195.8   3,929.6   3,856.7   2,218.9   1,181.6   14,019.8
/a  Includes travel, printing, data processing, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
- 56 -                                     Table 19
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Project Implementation - Administration (Project Management Office)
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5        Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                       240.2        -         -          -          -         240.2   40
Vehicles                         61.8        -          -         -          -          61.8   70
Subtotal                  302.0        -          _          -          -        302.0
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                        287.2      287.2     287.2      287.2      287.2    1,436.0    0
Consultants                   1,740.0   1,740.0        -          -          -       3,480.0    0
Other /a                        115.2      115.2     115.2       69.1       69.1       483.9   15
Subtotal                2,142.4   2,142.4       402 4      356.3     356.3    5,399.9
Total before
Contingencies         2,444.5   2,142.4       402 4     356.3      356.3    5,702.0    4
Physical contingency              259.5      214.2       40.2      35.6       35.3       585.3
Price contingency                 159.4      400.9      118.5     144.9      187.7    1,011.3
Total Cost              2,863.4   2,757.5       561.1      536.9      579.6    7,298.5
/a  Includes supplies and materials, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



- 57-                                        ANNEX 1
Table 20
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Project Implementation - Agricultural Research Office
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5         Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                       134.5        -          -          _          _         134.5   60
Vehicles                         61.8        -          -          -          -          61.8   70
Subtotal                   196.3        -         -          -          -         196.7   67
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         57.1       57.1       57.1       57.1       57.1      285.4    0
Training                        419.0      419.0      419.0      419.0      419.0    2,095.0    0
Consultants                     326.0      326.0      326.0      326.0      326.0    1,629.8    0
Other /a                        136.0      136.0      136.0      136.0      136.0      680.0   12
Subtotal                   938.1      938.1     938.1      938.1      938.1    4,690.7
Total before
Contingencies         1,134.4      938.1      938.1      938.1      938.1    4,886.9    4
Physical contingency              123.3       93.8       93.8       93.8       93.8       498.5
Price contingency                   72.9     175.2      277.4      382.1      495.0    1,402.6
Total Cost               1,330.5   1,207.1   1,309.4   1,414.0   1,526.9    6,788.0
/a  Includes travel, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX I
- 58-                                          Table 21
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULITURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Project Implementation - Food and Nutrition
(Planning and Programming Division, Planning Service)
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                        207.6      260 0       13.8         -          -         487.4   26
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         142.0      209.0      275.6      275.6       275.6    1,177.8    0
Training                         286.1      161.5        96.6       96.6       96.6       737.4    5
Consultants                    1,270.5   1,756.1       919.3        97.1       62.8    4,099.7   34
Other /a                         526.3   1,244.9       446.5       155.7      155.8    2,529.3    5
Subtotal                 2,224.9   3,365.5   1,738.0         625.0      590.8    8,544.2    5
Total before
Contingencies          2,432.5   3,631.5   1,751.8         625.0      590.8    9,031.5   20
Physical contingency               253.6      376.5       175.9       62.5       59.1       927.5
Price contingency                  150.6       649.1      502.4      252.5      309.8    1,864.4
Total Cost               2,836.7   4,657.1 2e,430.0          940.0      959.6   11,823.4
/a  Includes supplies and materials, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                                        Table 22
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Project Implementation - Agribusiness
Planning and Programming Division, Planning Service)
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                         21.8       43.5        -          -          -          65.3   50
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         105.8      105.8      105.8      105.8      105.8       529.0    0
Training                         522.7      650.0      706.3      791.1      812.5    3,482.6   15
other /a                          58.0       29.0       29.0       29.0       29.0       174.0    0
Subtotal                   686.5      784.8      844.1      925.9      947.3    4,185.6
Total before
Contingencies            708.2      828.3      841.1      925.9      947.4    4,250.9   13
Physical contingency                71.9       85.0       84.1       92.6       94.7       428.4
Price contingency                   45.2      150.7      244.2      370.9      491.3    1,302.3
Total Cost                 825.4   1,064.0   1,169.4   1,389.4   1,533.3    5,981.5
/a Includes regional surveys, and maintenance of equipment.



ANNEX 1
- 60 -                                       Table 23
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Project Implementation - Training (Extension Training Division, BAEx)
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5          Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                        169.1       21.4        -          -          -         190.5   85
Vehicles                          61.8        -          -          -          -          61.8   70
Subtotal                   230.9       21.4        -          -          -         252.3
Incremental Operating Costs
Salaries                         156.0      208.3      208.3      208.3      208.3       989.1    0
Training                      6,637.0   6,899.9   7,515.2   7,627.0   7,218.7   35,897.8   78
Consultants                      518.0      518.0        -          -          -       1,036.0   87
Other /a                          72.9      120.2      126.1      131.8      137.8       589.1   20
Subtotal                 7,383.9   7,746.4   7,849.6   7,967.1   7,564.8   38,512.0
Total before
Contingencies          7,614.8   7,767.8   7,849.6   7,967.1   7,564.8   38,764.3   75
Physical contingency               773.0      777.9      785.0      796.7      756.5    3,889.0
Price contingency                  400.6   1,215.7   2,034.5   2,894.0   3,543.2   10,088.0
Total Cost               8,788.4   9,761.4  10,669.1  11,657.9  11,864.5   52,741.3
/a  Includes travel, supplies and materials, maintenance of equipment and vehicles.



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                                       Table 24
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Project Implementation - Transportation (Project Management Office)
(P '000)
F.E.
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5           Total   (%)
Investment
Equipment                      3,352.8        -          -          -           -      3,352.8   80
Incremental Operating Costs
Other /a                         113.2      113.4      113.4      113.4       113.4       566.8   50
Total before
Contingencies          3,466.0      113.4      113.4       113.4      113.4    3,919.6   76
Physical contingency               514.4        11.3       11.3       11.3       11.3       559.6
Price contingency                  188.5        18.9       30.8       42.9       55.4       336.4
Total Cost               4,168.9       143.6      155.5      167.6      180.1    4,815.6
/a Includes spare parts and maintenance.



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
Overseas Consultants Terms of Reference
A. Livestock Regulatory Services
I. Feed Analysis
1. Analytical Chemist
To be assigned to BAI for a six month period after the equipment for
the Central Feed Laboratory has been installed to instruct staff on analytical
procedures including gas chromatography, amino acid assay and atomic absorp-
tion spectrophotometry. The consultant will also assist in making operational
equipment provided under the Bank assisted Second Livestock Project.
II. Livestock Disease Diagnosis
1. Veterinary Pathologist
To be assigned to BAI for a six months period at the start of the
first year of the project, the consultant should be a specialist in veterinary
pathology with experience in diagnostic laboratories. The consultant will be
expected to give advice on the operation and management of diagnostic
laboratories including data collection, processing and retrieval on the flow
of information from the central laboratory to the regional laboratories and
vice versa, and on diagnostic procedures for specific livestock diseases.
2. Veterinary Microbiologist
To be assigned to BAI for a six month period at the start of the
second year of the project, the consultant should be a specialist in
veterinary diagnostic microbiology who will advise and teach Bureau staff on
procedures and techniques in viral, serological and bacterial examination.
III. Vaccine Production and Quality Control
1. Veterinary Immunologist
To be assigned to BAI for six months at the start of the project,
the consultant will, in cooperation with a Filipino counterpart, be
responsible for planning and supervising all quality control operations to



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
be undertaken while the laboratory is being developed and to implement
procedures for the improvement of the quality of vaccines being produced by
the Bureau.  The consultant is likely to hold a Ph.D. in veterinary
immunology and should have at least three years experience in vaccine
production and vaccine quality control.
2. Veterinary Virologist
To be assigned to BAI for six months and to start as soon as the
Veterinary Immunologist leaves the project. The consultant will be respon-
sible for developing the Viral Vaccine Production Laboratory and for improving
the quality of viral vaccine being produced by the Bureau. The consultant
is likely to hold a Ph.D. in Veterinary Virology and have had at least three
years experience in vaccine production.
B. Agricultural Planning
I. Data Development
Agricultural Sampling Specialist. To be assigned to BAEcon for
12 months during the first two years of the project, the consultant would
probably have postgraduate qualifications in statistics specializing in
sample surveys and have had at least five years experience in agricultural
surveys. Responsibilities will include assisting and advising Bureau staff
on the sampling techniques. The consultant will test the efficiency of the
methods of statistical estimation and assist in the evaluation of sampling
and non-sampling errors in current surveys. He will take part in the
training programs for Bureau personnel and serve as an adviser to the
Director.
II. National Nutrition Survey
Three overseas consultants are provided for short-term assignments
to assist FNRI in carrying out the second nationwide nutrition survey by
augmenting skills or providing expertise not presently available in the
country.
1.        Survey Methodologist.  To be assigned to FNRI for two months during
the first year of the project, the consultant will assist the Institute to
develop methodology to update its survey subsampling techniques. The
objective will be to reduce the need to conduct costly nationwide surveys
every five years. The consulant should have a background in statistics and/
or mathematics and be familiar with nutritional issues.  Experience in the
Philippines would be preferable. Methods to select representative areas
which could be regularly sampled to provide current data on food consumption



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
patterns should be devised, and the areas identified prior to the 1982
survey.
2.        Nutritionist.  To be assigned to FNRI for two months during the
third project year, the consulant should be an expert in nutrition who will
work with Institute staff in the analyses of survey data. The consultant
will complement the work of a similar expert who will be funded by USAID to
help prepare data collection methodology. The consultant must be conversant
with data processing methodology and techniques to ensure the most useful
and policy-relevant results are obtained. He should have experience in the
Philippines and be familiar with the first Philipine nutrition survey.
3.        Food Economist.  To be assigned to FNRI for four months in the
third project year, the consultant will assist the Institute develop
capacity in nutrition economics prior to the survey data analysis stage.
This expertise is particularly important in view of the increased amount of
socio-economic data that will be collected in the 1982 survey and the
greater emphasis that is being placed on income-related policy issues. The
consultant should have experience in data processing and nutrition survey
work.
C. Project Implementation
I. Food and Nutrition
Nutrition-Economist. To be assigned to the PMO for 18 months during
the first two years of the project, the consultant will assist in the
organization and operation of the unit. He will assess the strengths and
weaknesses of current food and nutrition activities and help design methods
to accurately reflect nutrition and food consumption considerations in MOA
policies, plans and programs. Specifically, he will identify data needs and
means of collecting them; define necessary analytical studies; formulate
criteria for selecting nutrition policies, programs and projects; and devise
means of determining costs and benefits of nutrition projects. In addition,
the consultant will design a monitoring system for nutrition projects and
programs, and assist regional staff in formulating nutrition-related
policies, programs and projects. He will liaise with FNRI to integrate
survey results into MOA policy.
II. Training
Training Systems Specialist. To be assigned to the PMO for
12 months during the first two years of the project to assist the various
implementing agencies design and execute scholarship and in-service training
programs for selected staff, the consultant should have a broad background
in agricultural public service, and be familiar with research and regulatory
services in particular. Knowledge of the Philippines would be preferred.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated IBRD Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Semester                 Semester             Cumulative
1982         2nd /a              0.6                    0.6
1983         1st                  1.0                   1.6
2nd                  1.8                   3.4
1984         1st                 3.7                     7.1
2nd                 4.4                   11.5
1985         1st                 5.3                   16.8
2nd                 5.8                   22.6
1986         1st                 5.5                   28.1
2nd                 5.2                   33.3
1987         1st                 4.6                   37.9
2nd                 4.2                   42.1
1988         1st                 2.9                   45.0
/a  Estimated effectiveness date:  October 31, 1981.



ANNEX 4
-66 -
PHILIPPINES
ACRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Implementati-n Schedule
Year I                     Year 2                      Year 3                     Year 4                      Year 5
Key activities                Ist   2nd   3rd   4th    Ist   2nd   3rd   4th    Ist   2ed   3rd   4th    Ist   2nd   3rd   4th    Ist   2nd   3rd   4th
Agricultural Research
Civil works
Doc-ment preparation
Bidding & contract award
ConOs trucc r ionc
Equi p-ent
Document  -reparatin-
Bidding & cortract award
Purchase & installation
Vehicles
Document preparation
Biddiog & contract award
Purchase & distribution
Plant Regulatory Serviceu
Civil works
-oc-mnent preparation
Bidding & contract award
Construction
Equipmenr
Ooc tment preparation
Bidding & contract award
Purchase 4 installation
Vehicles
Docueent preparartis
Riddisg & contract award
Purchase & distribution
Livestock Reguiltary Services
Civil works
Document preparation
Bidding & contract award
Construction
Egqipment
Dlocumnent preparation_______
Bidding & contract award
Purchase & installation
Vehicles
)ocu-ent preparation
Bidding & contract award
P-rchase & distribution
Coosult-ots (5 overseas)
Agricltural Planning
Document preparation
Bidding & c-ntract award
Purchase & installation
Vehicles
Document -reparation
Bidding & contract award
Purchase & distribution
Coosultantg (4 overseas)
Project Implementat ion
Egulp-fent
TDocument preparation_______
Ridding i c-tra-t award
Purchase & isalto
Vehicles
Document preparation
Ridding & contract award=
Biddirg & -otract award
Purchase & distribation
Consultants (2 overseas)



ANNEX 5
- 67 -                          Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES
Project Management Office and Monitoring Unit
Terms of Reference
Project Management Office
In accordance with paragraph 7.02 of the Agricultural Support
Services Project (ASSP) Appraisal Report, the Project Management Office (PMO)
will serve as the Secretariat for the Project Management Committee (PMC),
under the control of the Project Manager (PM), according to the following
terms of reference:
(a) prepare, or cause to be prepared, investment budgets and
engineering designs for all components of the project including
those to be implemented by UPLB, PCARR and FNRI;
(b) prepare and submit required progress and financial reports and
any other documentation for the project;
(c) maintain separate financial records relating to the project and
process claims for reimbursement;
(d) develop guidelines and draft specifications for civil works and the
procurement of vehicles, equipment and other goods required for the
project for submission to the MOA Bids and Specifications
Sub-Committee;
(e) maintain a monitoring unit according to the attached terms of
reference;
(f) establish a training unit to carry out the training funded under
the project;
(g) assist the PPD of the Planning Service to carry out the food and
nutrition studies, and the agribusiness activities of the project;
(h) assist the ARO in developing, coordinating and executing the
research components of the project;
(i) assist and coordinate the other implementing agencies including
BPI, BAI, BAEcon, the Regional Offices, APPU-PDED, IPB, UPLB
Department of Agronomy, PCARR and FNRI in the implementation of
their components of the project;



- 68-                           ANNEX 5
Page 2
(j) implement the transportation component of the project; and
(k) undertake studies and perform other functions related
to the project assigned by the PMC.
Project Monitoring Unit
(a) prepare an organizational structure, staffing pattern and
implementing timetable for the unit;
(b) prepare and implement (a) a monitoring system to report on
project inputs, phasing of activities, project outputs and general
implementation; and (b) an evaluation system to assess overall
project performance based on indicators that measure progress and
the impact of the project, and analyze causes of success and
problems in implementation;
(c) carry out, or cause to be carried out, surveys and special studies
on the utilization of laboratory, research, regulatory, planning
and data generation services of the Ministry and to generate data
required by the PMC:
(d) liaise with MOA's Integrated Management Information System to
ensure that the project's monitoring and evaluation system is
compatible; and
(e) prepare the draft completion report for submission to PMC, in
accordance with guidelines to be agreed with the Bank.



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Table I
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Projected Annual Crop Production without the Project
Sweet
Year  Corn      Sorghum   potato   Cassava   Mungo   Soybean   Peanut    Total
(Quantity - -000 m.t.)
1   3,563       44.5    495.6    1,013.0    74.2    10.2           36.2    5,236.7
2   3,680       46.6    501.3    1,046.0    77.6    10.8           40.6    5,402.9
3   3,801       48.7    507.1    1,081.0    81.2    11.4           45.5    5,575.9
4   3,926       51.0    513.0    1,116.0    85.0    12.0           51.0    5,754.0
5   4,034       54.4    517.8    1,148.0    87.8    12.1           56.4    5,899.7
6   4,141       57.8    522.6    1,180.0    90.5    12.2           61.7    6,065.8
7   4,347       60.2    517.4    1,216.5    93.8    13.0           65.5    6,313.4
8   4,562       62.6    512.3      1,254.2    97.2    13.9         69.5    6,571.7
9   4,789       65.2    507.2    1,293.0   100.8    14.9           73.8    6,843.9
10   4,905       67.2    511.6    1,342.0   104.6    15.7           77.8    7,023.9
11   5,023       69.3    516.1    1,391.9   108.5    16.6           82.1    7,207.5
12   5,144       71.4    520.6    1,444.2   112.6    17.5           86.6    7,396.9
13   5,268       73.7    525.1    1,498.4   116.8    18.4           91.4    7,591.8
14   5,396       76.0    529.6    1,554.7   121.2    19.5           96.4    7,793.4
15   5,526       78.3    534.3    1,613.1   125.8    20.5    101.7    7,999.7
(Net Value - ? million)
1    2,761.3    40.9    199.5          354.5   213.1    15.2        87.4    3,672.0
2    2,852.0    42.8    201.8          366.1   222.9    16.1        97.5    3,799.2
3    2,945.8    44.8    204.1          378.4   233.2    17.0    109.8    3,933.1
4    3,042.6    46.9    206.5          390.6   244.1    17.9    123.1    4,071.8
5    3,126.3    50.0    208.4          401.8   252.2    18.1    136.1    4,192.9
6    3,209.3    53.1    210.3          413.0   259.9    18.2    148.9    4,312.8
7    3,368.9    55.3    208.3          425.8   269.4    19.4    158.1    4,505.2
8    3,535.5    57.5    206.2          439.0   279.2    20.8    167.7    4,705.9
9    3,711.5    59.9    204.1          452.6   289.5    22.3    178.1    4,918.0
10    3,801.4    61.8    205.9          469.7   300.4    23.5    187.8    5,050.4
11    3,892.8    63.7    207.7          487.2   311.6    24.8    198.1    5,186.0
12    3,986.6    65.6    209.5          505.5   323.4    26.2    209.0    5,325.8
13    4,082.7    67.7    211.4          524.4   335.5    27.5    220.6    5,469.8
14    4,181.9    69.9    213.2          544.1   348.1    29.2    232.7    5,619.0
15    4,282.6    72.0    215.1          564.6   361.3    30.6    245.5    5,771.7



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
(P million)
Incremental    Present Value of
Costs/a     Incremental Costs                     Present Value of
(Investment      discounted at      Incremental   Incremental Benefits
Year   & Operational)         15%             Benefits/b    discounted at 15%o/c
1         106.1              91.9                0                 0
2         137.3             103.8                0                 0
3         111.7              73.4               14.3               9.4
4          63.0              36.0               29.5              16.9
5          56.9              28.3               45.6              22.7
6          56.9              24.6               62.5              27.1
7          56.9              21.4               81.6              30.7
8          56.9              18.6              102.3              33.4
9          56.9              16.2              124.0              35.3
10          56.9              14.1              146.4              36.2
11          56.9              12.2              169.1              36.3
12          56.9              10.6              192.9              36.1
13          56.9               9.2              218.0              35.4
14          56.9               8.0              244.2              24.5
15-20       56.9              30.4              271.8             145.4
498.8                               499.3
/a Due to the project.
/b Derived from incremental value of production from seven annual crops.
/c To achieve a 15% economic rate of return, annual incremental net value
in year 15, when the project would reach full development, would need
to reach about P 272 million or about 4.7% over "without project"
production.



- 71 -
Chart 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Reorganized Ministry of Agriculture (as of May 1981)
12                                                                                               5
Attached             -   -   -   -               Minister                                       Supervised
Agenciesafi                                                                                      Agenc,es-2I
NATIONAL                                                                                 2
Unt<                                        Secetris1                                          Bureaust/ 
.......................................... .......................... I......................................
12
Regional
Directorsy i
REGIONAL
24
Assistant
RegionaO
Directoly~~~~~~~(ec ,cl
Administrative Unit                                                                               Operational Units |
..._____  ......................................................... .......                                 .....................
Provincial
Agricultural
Offac rsd
PROVINCiAL
Tech n(Technical)
150
.... ... X.......................................................                       District......................
Agricultural
Officers/f
1,200
MUNICIPAL                                                                         Municipal/City
AND                                                                             Agricultrual
BARANGAY                                                                             Officers!J
(VILLAGE) 
|13,000
Agricultural
and 1-000
Technologists/ 
.........................................................................................................................
World Bank-22912



- 72 -
Chart 1
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Reorganized Ministry of Agriculture (as of May 1981)
(Explanatory Notes Chart 1 --
Authorizing Instruments and Dates of Establishment shown in parenthesis)
a/ The twelve attached agencies include four Government-owned and controlled
corporations:
Philippine Tobacco Administration (RA 25, 6/16/54)
Philippine Virginia Tobacco Administration (RA 2263, 6/19/59)
Coconut Investment Company (RA 6260, 6/11/71)
Philippine Cotton Corporation (PD 250, 12/22/78
Other attached agencies include:
Fertilizer and Pesticide Authority (PD 1144, 5/3/77)
Abaca Industry Development Authority (PD 1208, 10/8/77)
Philippine Virginia Tobacco Board (EO 331, 3/10/71)
Presidential Committee on Agricultural Credit (PD 792, 9/7/74)
Philippine Agricultural Training Council (EO 307, 3/23/71)
Pagkian ng Bayan National Advisory Council (EO 620, 9/11/80)
National Governing Board of the Philippine Training Center
for Rural Development (PD 1145, 5/30/77)
Philippine Dairy Corporation (PB BLC 21, 3/27/79)
All attached agencies can accept funds from outside MOA, under agreements
between the agencies and the donors.  MOA coordinates these agencies' plans
and programs to match Ministry priorities.
b/ Agencies under the administrative supervision of MOA include:
National Food and Agricultural Council (EO 183, 5/6/69)
Green Revolution Expanded Program Action Committee (EO 418, 7/26/73)
Livestock Development Council (PD 914, 3/29/76)
National Rain Stimulation Committee (EO 212, 2/17/70)
National Meat Inspection Commission (PD 7, 10/1/72)
The Ministry has a role in policy formulation for these agencies. Their
budgets are under MOA, except for NFAC which is controlled by the agency.
c/ Created under AO 2, 1981, implementing PD 1579, 6/11/78:
Crops
Livestock
Planning (by designation)
Cooperatives (by designation)
Admin4-tration -nd Finance



- 73 -
Chart 1
Paae 3
d/            Planning (PD 1, 7/21/72)
Financial and Management (PD 1, 7/21/72)
Administration (PD 1,7/21/72)
Computer Center (LOI 9, 1973)
Agrarian Reform Unit (LOI 9, 1973)
e/            Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) (RA 3639, 10/7/29)
Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) (RA 3639, 10/7/29)
Bureau of Soils (BS) (RA 622, 6/5/51)
Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAEx) (RA 680, 4/24/52)
Bureau of Agricultural Economics (BAEcon) (RA 3627, 6/22/63)
Bureau of Cooperative Development (BCOD) (Section 2, EO 595, 5/22/80)
f/ Created under PD 1579, 6/11/78.
Assistant Regional Directors for Crops and Livestock in
twelve regions.



PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Organization for Project Implementation
Minister
Project
Management
Committee
(PMC)                                                                Rsac
(PMC)                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coordinating
[                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Committee
l                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(RCLC)
Project
Management
Office (PMO)
4-
Bureau of          ~~~Bureau of       F       Bureau of                                                                                                   Piipn   oni 
Plant Industry               Animal                  Agricultural                              Planning Service                             Research                and Resources
(BPI)            ~~~Industry               Economics                                                                               Ofc
(BPI)                     I Brsm"                                    jAI  (BAEcon)                                                        A    ,e
Planning and            Agricultural Project                                       University
Programming              Preparation Unit/ !                                         of the
Pro n                 Project Development                                       Philippines
Division            and Evaluation Division                                      Los Bano
(PPO)                   (APPU/PDEDI                                              iUPLB)
Food and
Nutrition
Research
Institute
(FNRI)
Regional                                                                                                                 lb  A)
O1f f ices                                                                                                             X  r t
012)                                                                                                                  F 
World Bank- 22913



- 75 -
Chart 2
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Organization for Project Implementation
(Explanatory Notes Chart 2)
The following agencies are responsible for implementing the
project:
Agency                                  Project Component
Project Management Office                --  Administration
-- Transportation
-- Training
Bureau of Plant Industry                 --  Commodity Analysis
-- Plant Certification
-  Plant Quarantine
Bureau of Animal Industry                 --  Feed Analysis
-- Livestock Quarantine
- Livestock Field Services
=- Livestock Disease Diagnosis
-- Vaccine Production
-  Vaccine Quality Control
Bureau of Agricultural Economics          --  Data Development
Planning and Programming Division         --  Food and Nutriticn (Plan)
of the Planning Service                --  Agribusiness
Agricultural Project Preparation Unit/
Project Development and Evaluation
Division of the Planning Service       --  Agricultural Project Preparation
University of the Philippines
at Los Banos                           --  Institute of Plant Breeding
-- Small-Farm Systems Research Program
Philippine Council for Agriculture
and Resources Research                 --  Technology Generation
-- Applied Communications
MOA Regional Offices                      --  Regional Integrated Research Stations  (RIARS)
-- Technology Verification
Food and Nutrition Research Institute   --  National Nutrition Survey



I



IBRD 15455
1160     CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                     120                                                      124                                              NOVEMBER  1980
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS                                                                                  PHILIPPINES
NCR NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
I ILOCOS                VI WESTERNVISAYAS                                  AGR I CULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICE PROJECT
II locos Norte           37 Aklan
2 Abra                   38 Capiz
3 llocosSur               39 Antique                                           8                             A        Regional Integrated Agricultural Research              20-
4 Mountain                40 Nloilo  Ocdet                                                                               Stations
5 La Union           V4 CENTRAL VISAYASt
7PBangaeinan             42 Geba                                                                                      Roods___
7 Pangasinan             43 Negros Oriental
CAGAYAN VALLEY             44 Bohol
8 8atanes                45 Siquijor                                                                    *-------- Railways
9 Cagayan           VIII EASTERN VISAYAS                                __ -                                          Provincial Boundaries
10 Kahnsga.Apayao         46 Northern Samar                             B?b 1' On  el
11 Isabela                47 Samar                                                                                     Regional Boundaries
12 Ifugao                 48 Eastern Samar                                        pan
13 NuevaViscaya           49 Leyte                             2  1 5                                    -*-*-- -   International Boundaries                   to
14 Ouirino                50 Southtern Leyte           Laooag
CENTRAL LUZON          IX WESTERN MINDANAO                          -         (
15 Nueva Ecija            51 Zamboanga del Norte                 Din
16 Tarlac                  52 Zamboanga delSar Nu
17 Zambales               53 Basilan                          i    J
18 Pampanga               54 Sulu                                 r_            l      -
19 Bulacan                55 Twitawi
20 Bataan               X NORTHERN MINDANAO                                       l 3   lag I
IV SOUTHERN TAGALOG    56 Surigaodel Norte  Son2                                      l
21 Quezon           57 Camigui'n          Fernandio   5,,'5 
22 Rizal                  58 Agusan delNte                              1 \                                         0      50    100    I,5   200   250   300N16
22 Cita                    59 Misamis Oriental     5'*3         Ba  i                                                                100       150     2001250   300
28 Canite                  60 Misamis Occidental                                                        KILOMETERS                                                             1 
16'     24 Laguna                  61 Bakidnon                    -MILES
25 Batangas               6    gsndlSr             '~                 50                                                       5           0          5         0
26 Marinduqe6  Aua dlSa c1                                                                                                                           15         0
27 Mindoro Oriental    XI EASTERN MINDANAO                             o
28 Mindoro Occidental      63 Sarigao del San       ')Taeiq s         a
29 Romblon                 64 Davao Oriental     ClarleBce I            b t
30 Palawan                 65 Davao                 Angele's  18   19
BICOL              ~~~~~66 Davao del Sur        117 >\ "
31 BICamarinerNorte        67 Sourth Cotabato Olongop'o,/9 Fp                                                                IE
31 Camarnses Nartte~\p~I                                                                                                       F    I N           S  5
32 Camarines Sur       XII CENTRAL MINDANAO                                                                       P  H    ZM   P P~
33 Catanduanes            68 Lanao del Norte                "           '1
34 Albay                   69 Lanao del Su'                5              '/3
35 Sorsogon                70 North Cotabato          '        i     ,    '   Pagb             on
36 Masbate  ~       71 Magaindanao                                          ""-\' 
36 Masbate                 72 Sultan Kudarat           '      \ei                   N                             / 
\"Calap  n                       N          /
____ '                /            /I dt
*"-.2    \                                    /-\  L, 
SOUTH   (19/v..-                     IV  L                   ~~~~~SIBUYAN S
SOUTH   Ci-,                            IV      ~~~~28  I                                               le
L     I             /29$                                 45
5H   A                                                                  r \f -<                              baras
;skVIET NAM   -4zu,?oK'v> .'  i s                                                                                         47?Jn  a 7 s< \ \   i
-120                                                                                  I                                                                                                 120-
VI                                                    Leltc Gulf
)<_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~l~                                       41        42v /C4 . .  .
LaGroni
I>  '                              ~~~~~~~~~Panay Gulf   /
oP to                                          c ourr    i                                                rig
Po r h                                       osnheso                  I' pa    t r        n d
SU/ V    SEA
/                                         -            Zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~mboango   uf x ~ 7>  DVa
IET NAM'L4
sn,,                          K                               OFt F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=ESES  SEA
MAt    A                                                             This map has bean prepared by the Weld Bank'n staff eaclasively for' the cwnemerince
""*'-'   (3>                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~of the readers of the 'apart to w'hich it in attached. The denoninarons cued and the
boundaries shon - n thin map do nortmply, an the parts of the Werld Bawk and its
95 ,S        ',^       ,                               ahffliates, any jodgment on the legal status of any territory or any endorsoement o
N  D .b Nl E       I5  1 A.    "                              acceptance of such boundaries.
,J      '$',        120-                                                          124-                                                         128



