Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18918-IN
PROJECT APPRXISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 140.82 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
SECOND NATIONAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
May 13, 1999
Health, Nutrition and Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Rtupees (Rs.)
US$1.00 = Rs.45
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AZT                  Zidovudine (a drug for HIV treatment)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                  Community-based Organization
CIDA                 Canadian International Development Agency
CSW                  Commercial Sex Worker
DALYs                Disability Adjusted Life Years
DFID                 Department For International Development (UK)
FMS                  Financial Management System
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOI                  Government of India
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IDU                  Injecting Drug Users
IEC                  Information, Education and Communication
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                  Management Infonnation System
MOHFW                Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NACO                 National AIDS Control Organization
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
NPL                  National Policy Letter
NPR                  National Program Review
OI                   Opportunistic Infections
PEAR                 Perfornance and Expenditure Annual Review
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
PLWA                 People Living with AIDS
PMR                  Project Management Report
R&D                  Research and Development
STI                  Sexually Transmitted Infection
TRG                  Technical Resource Group
UNAIDS               Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
WHO                  World Health Organization
Vice President              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director            Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager             Richard L. Skolnik
Task Leader                 Prabhat Jha



INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL EIIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
Preface ..............................................................2
A.  Project Development Objectives .............................................................3
B. Strategic Context ..............................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ............                                      ...............3
2.Main sector issues, Government and project strategic choices ........................................3................ 3
C. Project Description Summary ..............................................................5
1. Project components ..............................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ........................................................6
3. Benefits and target population ..............................................................7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..............................................................7
D. Project Rationale ..............................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .............................................................. 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies ............................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ..............................................................9
4. Indicators of borrower commitment and ownership .............................................................                                10
5. Value added of Bank support .............................................................                                                    10
E. Summary Project Analyses .............................................................                                                               10
1. Economic .............................................................                                                                       10
2. Financial .............................................................                                                                      11
3. Technical .............................................................                                                                      11
4. Institutional .............................................................                                                                  11
5. Social .............................................................                                                                         12
6. Environmental assessment .............................................................                                                       12
7. Participatory approach ............................................................. 13
8. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) ............................................................. 13
F.  Sustainability  and Risks ............................................................. 13
1 Sustainability .............................................................                                                                  13
2. Critical risks .............................................................                                                                 14
3. Possible controversial aspects .............................................................                                                 15
G. Main Credit Conditions .............................................................                                                                 15
1. Actions taken prior to negotiations ............................................................. 15
2. Assurances during negotiations/other covenants ..........................                               ................................... 15
3. Effectiveness and disbursement conditions ............................................................. 16
H. Readiness for Implementation .............................................................                                                            16
I.  Compliance with Bank Policies .............................................................                                                         16
Annexes
1. Project Design Summary .17
2. Detailed Project Description .20
3. National Policy Letter .23
4. Estimated Project Costs .26
5   Cost-Benefit and Cost-Effectiveness Analyses Summary .28
6. Financial Sumnmary .35
7.  Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements .37
8. Project Processing Budget and Schedule .50
9. Documents in Project File .51
10. Statement of Loans and Credits .52
11. India at a glance .56



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
South Asia Region
Project Appraisal Document
India
Second National IIV/AIDS Control Project
Date: May 13, 1999                                 Task Leader: Prabhat Jha
Country Director: Edwin R. Lim                     Sector Manager: Richard L. Skolnik
Project ID: IN-PE-45051   Sector: Health, Nutrition and  Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction 30%,
Population                Women in Development 30%
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit     Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [1  No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [X] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 140.82 million (US$191 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                       [X] Multicurrency      []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                   Local            Foreign           Taxes             Total
Government                  31.9              0.0              6.9               38.8
IDA                     151.2             39.8              0.0              191.0
Total                    183.1            39.8              6.9              229.8
Borrower: India, acting by its President
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: National AIDS Control Organization (NACO); and State/Municipal Corporations
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):    2000     2001       2002       2003   2004    2005
Annual  13.4        35.3        54.6       46.6    33.4    7.7
Cumulative   13.4      48.7        103.3      149.9   183.3   191.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2005  Expected effectiveness date: 7/31/1999   Expected closing date: 7/31/2004



2
Preface
The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) are major
developmental challenges in India. Given the importance of this issue and the involvement of partner
agencies, this preface sets the context of this proposed second IDA investment in HIV/AIDS control in India.
The Problem: HIV/AIDS may well reverse India's achievements in health and development. African
experience suggests that a mature HIV/AIDS epidemic reduces life expectancy, increases the demand for
medical care including from the public sector, worsens other illnesses such as tuberculosis, and exacerbates
poverty and inequality. According to recent National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) estimates, India
currently has about 4 million HIV-infected people. This is less than one percent of the adult population but
still more than nearly any other country. HIV infection is concentrated among poor, marginalized groups,
including commercial sex workers, truck drivers, migrant laborers, men having sex with men, and injecting
drug users. Transmission of HIV within and from these groups drives the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and infection is
spreading rapidly to the general community. Without successful intervention, HIV infection could grow to at
least 5 percent of the adult population - more than 37 million people - by 2005. Even with intervention, the
absolute number of HIV-infected people in India is certain to grow. There is a narrow time period over the
next few years in which to prevent the HIV epidemic from becoming generalized and much harder to control.
Historical Context: A decade ago, India had very little mobilization against HIV/AIDS, and much denial of
its impact. From September 1992 to April 1999, IDA financed the first phase of Govemment of India's (GOI)
National AIDS Control Program with a credit of US$84 million (Credit 2350-IN). This credit helped establish
the NACO. In recent years, GOI has shown increasing commitment to HIV/AIDS control. The Prime
Minister has called HIV/AIDS "India's most important public health problem" ' Over the last 18 months, GOI
has dramatically increased the scope of its HIV/AIDS control activities by adopting a new National Policy
Document, engaging public, private and voluntary sectors in the preparation of plans, moving implementation
of services to states and municipal corporations, and completing a baseline survey of HIV prevalence. India
thus has a window of opportunity to control the epidemic before mass spread into the general community.
Working within a Framework: With IDA support, GOI has established a consortium-like collaboration of
external partners, involving UNAIDS, USAID, DFID, WHO, CIDA and others, who work under the
leadership of NACO to help implement GOI's National Policy Document. This partnership aims at making
available to India the best global expertise on HIV/AIDS. It has identified strategic areas for financing by
different agencies. Planned financing would total about US$328 million over the next five years. With the
proposed credit of US$191 million equivalent, IDA would finance selected parts of the second phase of GOI's
HIV/AIDS Control Program.
The Proposed Project: Global experience with HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections
demonstrates that the most effective strategy to prevent an epidemic is to intervene quickly among the groups
at high risk for contracting and spreading HIV. The project would provide effective interventions such as
counseling, condoms, treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), client information and treatment to
marginalized groups at high risk. The project would also support preventive interventions in the general
community and increase capacity for low-cost AIDS care. The project builds on lessons learned from the first
National AIDS Control Project as described below. Given the importance of the project, IDA engaged a
Quality Assurance Group to review the project jointly with the GOI before negotiations.
Risks: Notwithstanding GOI's ownership and substantial preparation of the project, the project faces many
risks. Major risk factors include pressures to adopt expensive or ineffective treatments that do not control the
epidemic and human rights violations and social and political isolation of HIV-infected people. Managing
these risks will be an ongoing challenge during implementation.
1 Speech of Honorable Prime Minister of India, Shri A. B. Vajpayee, December 12, 1998, New Delhi, India



3
A. Project Development Objectives (and Key Performance Indicators)
The project would finance implementation of selected parts of the second phase of the GOI's National
HIV/AIDS Control Program. The two key project objectives are to: (a) reduce the rate of growth of HIV
infection in India; and (b) strengthen India's capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS.
Reductions in the rate of HIV spread would be reflected in the stabilization of the annual percentage
increase in HIV prevalence. India's strengthened capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS would be measured
by the percentage of states and municipalities in which AIDS Control Societies are: (a) functioning, and
(b) effectively managing the targeted intervention component?
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS; Report No. 17241 -IN, dated December 17,
1997) puts special emphasis on improving the coverage, cost effectiveness, and equity of social programs.
IDA's specific objective in health is to work with public, private and voluntary sectors towards: (a)
improving primary care and nutrition policies; (b) consolidating disease control efforts; and (c) upgrading
state health systems. The basis of this strategy for the health sector in India is rooted in an on-going
dialogue between GOI and IDA.
The project is consistent with the CAS and health goals. First, the project would improve the availability
of HIV/AIDS interventions, concentrating in particular on their delivery among marginalized groups at
high risk (commercial sex workers, men having sex with men, truck drivers, migrant laborers and
injecting drug users). Second, the project would focus on developing and delivering cost-effective
interventions. This would be achieved by: (a) acting now to reduce future social and financial costs of
treating AIDS cases; (b) concentrating on preventive interventions among the groups at highest risk of
transmitting HIV; and (c) decentralizing service delivery so that interventions can be targeted to meet
local needs.
2. Main sector issues, Government and project strategic choices.
The health sector faces a number of issues and constraints (substantive, institutional, and financial) that
must be addressed in order to curtail the AIDS epidemic.3 The following table outlines how GOI and the
project intend to address these issues and constraints.
2 See Annex 1 for detailed explanation of the performance indicators. AIDS Control Societies have been formed in
all two three states and major municipal corporations. The remaining states and municipal corporations would fonn
AIDS Control Societies by August 31, 1999. They are autonomous bodies with government and NGO
representation. They function to manage and deliver locally tailored HIV/AIDS control interventions, and to engage
communities. Societies function also to ease flow of funds from NACO.
3 This section draws upon: (a) D. Naylor; P. Jha; et al. A Fine Balance: Some Options for Public and Private Health
in Urban India, World Bank, 1999; (b) P. Piot and M. Over, HIV/AIDS and STDs, in Jamnison et al, Disease Control
Priorities in Developing Countries, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1994; (c) Institute of Medicine, Evaluating
HIVIAIDS Control Programs, National Academy Press, Washington DC, 1997; (d) Over, M. and M. Ainsworth,
Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic, World Bank, 1997; and (e) J. Dayton, World Bank
HI VIAIDS Intervention: Ex Ante and ex-post evaluation, World Bank Discussion Paper No. 389, 1998.



4
Main sector issues, Government and Project strategies
Sector issues and constraints    Government strategy              Project strategy
1. Substantive Issues
Limited access to health care    .  GOI has made a commitment to  .  Highest priority would be given to
services among poor and socially  protecting human rights across  non-stigmatizing, preventive, and low-
stigmatized populations          Indian society, and to prioritizing  cost care services that target the
control interventions to groups at  groups most likely to transmit HIV
highest risk (see National Policy  infection
Letter (NPL), Annex 3)
2. Institutional Issues
Highly centralized disease control    .  GOI has already begun to shift   *  States and municipal corporations
programs                         implementation of service delivery   would design their own
to states and municipal corporations   comprehensive project implementation
(see NPL, Annex 3); including    plans (PIPs)
upgrading state-level public health    .  Local PIPs would emphasize
clinics and first-referral hospitals  collaboration with other disease
control programs and the primary
health care system
Under-reliance on private and    .  GOI has contracted out limited   .  Interventions would be delivered
voluntary sectors to deliver     work (e.g., information, education,   through the public, private, and
interventions                    and communication or IEC) to the    voluntary sectors
private and voluntary sectors; and  .  Special efforts would be made to
begun engaging the non-health    reach the most marginalized groups
public and private sectors in    through non-govemmental
HIV/AIDS control (see NPL)       organizations (NGOs) or community-
based organizations (CBOs)
Poor information base for planning    .  All new investments include  .  The project would encourage
and monitoring interventions, and    strengthening of the information  evidence-based management through
variable managerial skills       base and increased training at all  support of: sentinel surveillance; a
levels                           monitoring and evaluation system;
structured performance expenditure
annual reviews; training; and related
technical assistance to meet capacity-
building needs
3. Financial Issues
Low levels of public spending on  .  Centrally sponsored programs    .  The project would help to sustain
health (about $1 per capita), with  help to target key endemic diseases   increased spending on HIV/AIDS
substantial interstate variation  and help to reduce interstate   (currently about 4 cents per capita per
variation                        year, compared to 2 cents per capita
.  GOI has gradually increased   per year prior to 1997)
spending on health as a percentage    a  The project would create an
of total budgets                incentive structure for states to meet
minimum standards and to improve
performance
Private spending (which accounts  *  GOI has gradually shifted    The project would engage the private
for 80% of healthcare spending)  public financing toward          sector in providing important private
tends to be regressive, cost    interventions with public good    goods: affordable STI treatment, HIV
ineffective, and focused on curative   characteristics and positive  diagnosis, and AIDS care
interventions                    externalities



5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 4for detailed costs).
IDA would finance about 85 percent, net of taxes, of the incremental requirement of the project over five
years. NACO would oversee investments throughout the country, based on local implementation plans,
starting with priority states and municipal corporations.
C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~gii
A. Deliver Cost-effective          HNP - Health,  162.7        70.8     146.9        76.9
Interventions against HIV/AIDS     Population &
Nutrition
(I) Priority targeted interventions for              52.8        23.0       50.6         26.5
groups at high risk
(ii) Preventive interventions for the                 77.4       33.7       67.4         35.3
general community
(iii) Low-cost AIDS care                             32.5        14.1       28.9         15.1
B. Strengthen Capacity                            67.1         29.2     44.1         23.1
(I) Institutional strengthening                      57.0        24.8       34.9         18.3
(ii) Intersectoral collaboration                      10.1       4.4        9.2          4.8
Total Project Costs                       229.8         100      191.0        100
Total Financing Required             229.8        100       191.0        100
Note Exact totals may not match because of rounding.
An additional US$71 million4 would be available from other external partners for delivery of cost-
effective interventions, and about US$28 million for strengthening capacity. No formal co-financing with
other partners is planned, but all external agencies work under a NACO-led AIDS developmental
framework that IDA helped to create. Specifically: USAID would provide US$41.5 million in grant
funding to Maharasthra and Tamil Nadu; DFID would provide about 20 million British Pounds in grant
funding for various states; CIDA would provide US$12.5 million in grant funding for Karnataka,
Rajasthan and to NACO; and UNAIDS would provide US$11 million in grant funding and support in
kind for institutional strengthening of the technical resource groups (TRGs), strategic planning support,
and external consultants. Incremental state contributions are difficult to measure but an approximate
estimate is US$100 million. Support from USAID, DFID and CIDA would emphasize delivery of
preventive interventions for groups at high risk. Thus, about three-quarters of all external funding would
be used for prevention activities, of which a little under half would be for intervention for groups at
highest risk. The remainder would largely be used for institutional building. All donors would
coordinate specific activities under GOI leadership, as described in section 4 below. This includes
coordination of annual program reviews, and efforts to continue the significant collaboration that existed
in preparation of the Project.
4 All dollar amounts expressed in this document are in current (1999) US dollars unless otherwise stated.



6
The project would include two components and five sub-components.
(a) Deliver cost-effective interventions against HI V/AIDS
(i) Priority targeted interventionsfor groups at high risk (commercial sex workers, injecting drug
users, migrant workers, men having sex with men, and STI clinic attendees). The project would use
decentralized interventions to identify groups at high risk using participatory methods and provide
these groups with counseling, condoms, treatment of STIs, and client IEC and treatment programs.
IDA would finance minor civil works, STI drugs, NGO and consultant services; equipment; training
and fellowships; IEC; operational research and other studies; and incremental salaries and operating
expenses.
(ii) Preventive interventions for the general community. The project would provide locally
appropriate IEC and awareness campaigns, voluntary testing and counseling, and a strengthened
infrastructure for blood safety and hospital and occupational precaution programs. IDA would
finance minor civil works, publicity, IEC, NGO services, blood safety equipment, HIV and test kits,
vehicles, operational research and other studies, training and workshops, and incremental salaries
and operating expenses.
(iii) Low-cost AIDS care. The project would improve the quality and cost effectiveness of
interventions offered by existing providers for treating opportunistic infections such as tuberculosis.
It would also establish new sources for support for AIDS care, in partnership with NGOs. IDA
would finance drugs for opportunistic infections (01), seed grants for NGO and consultant services,
training and fellowships, IEC, operational research and other studies, minor civil works, and
incremental salaries and operating expenses.
(b) Strengthen capacity
(iv)  Institutional strengthening. The project would help to improve the impact and technical,
managerial, and financial sustainability of national, state, and municipal programs. It would do so
by: (i) enhancing planning, management, and implementation capacity at the national, state, and
local levels; (ii) strengthening the leadership capacity at NACO, including strategic planning skills;
(iii) increasing the quantity, quality, and timeliness of surveillance systems for HIV, STIs, and
behavior patterns; (iv) conducting training in the areas of management and provision of
interventions; (v) building capacity for ongoing monitoring and evaluation; and (vi) supporting high-
quality, peer-reviewed, and competitive operational research, as well as research and development
(R&D) and links to international research agencies. IDA would finance limited civil works,
equipment, vehicles, management information systems (MIS), training and fellowships, operational
research, cause of death studies, R&D, and incremental salaries and operating expenses.
(v) Intersectoral collaboration. The project would help catalyze the public, private, and voluntary
sectors to strengthen their own HIV/AIDS control programs. The project would support broad social
mobilization and cooperation and information sharing among central government ministries, private
corporations, other industrial groups, voluntary groups, and civil society. IDA would finance STI
and 01 drugs, training and workshops, limited equipment, NGO services, and incremental salaries
and operating expenses.
2. Keypolicy and institutional reforms supported by theproject.
The project would support five key policy and institutional reforms, addressed by the NPL to IDA (Annex
3). First, the program would shift the focus from raising awareness to changing behavior through
interventions, particularly for groups at high risk of contracting and spreading HIV. Second, the project



7
interventions, particularly for groups at high risk of contracting and spreading HIV. Second, the project
would support decentralization of service delivery to the states and municipalities, and a new
facilitating role for NACO. Program delivery would be flexible, evidence-based, and participatory, and
rely on local PIPs. Third, the project would help to protect human rights by encouraging voluntary
counseling and testing, and discouraging mandatory testing.  Fourth, the project would support
structured and evidence-based annual reviews and ongoing operational research. Fifth, the project
would encourage management reforms such as better managed state-level AIDS Control Societies and
improved drug procurement practices. These reforms were developed with GOI during project
preparation and there is strong ownership of them.
3. Benefits and target population.
The project would directly benefit: (a) high-risk groups; (b) the general coTnmunity at lower risk; and
(c) those already suffering from AIDS. Among groups at high risk, the project would decrease the burden
of HIV/AIDS and other STIs. The exact size of the groups at high risk is unknown but is estimated to be
less than 5 percent of the adult population.5 About one quarter of total project costs would be devoted to
targeted interventions for groups at high risk. In addition, the whole of India's population stands to
benefit directly from preventive interventions such as mass media campaigns, enhanced safety of blood
products, and voluntary counseling and testing that are aimed at groups at lower risk. Indians already
suffering from AIDS, or those who will shortly acquire AIDS, would benefit from low-cost AIDS care.
All Indians would benefit indirectly in that the project would help prevent the spread of the disease,
mitigate the economic impact of HIV/AIDS, and improve capacity for sustainable service delivery.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.
Under the Indian Constitution, health is a state responsibility. However, prevention of the extension of
infectious diseases from one state to another is a joint responsibility for the center and the states. Since its
inception, HIV/AIDS control has been a centrally sponsored and financed scheme. The project would be
managed by NACO, an autonomous body within the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW)
which reports to the National AIDS Control Board. NACO is headed by a Project Director, a senior
Indian Administrative Service officer. NACO is responsible for implementation of: (a) training; (b)
operational research and R&D; (c) surveillance; (d) oversight of TRGs; (e) program management; (f)
intersectoral collaboration with other ministries and with large GOI-owned enterprises; and (g) overall
advocacy and social mobilization. NACO would grant funds to AIDS Control Societies, which would be
responsible for implementing project activities, including: (a) targeted interventions; (b) blood safety; (c)
IEC and youth campaigns; (d) voluntary testing and counseling; (e) capacity development for care and
support; (f) intersectoral collaboration; and (g) social mobilization and advocacy. The Societies would, in
turn, contract NGOs to deliver most of the targeted intervention activities. NGOs would sit on the
Executive Committees of the Societies.
A key question is how implementation of a US$230 million project over a period of five years would
capitalize on and represent an improvement with regard to the implementation of the first US$100 million
project, carried out over a period of seven years. The project would be able to absorb this higher amount
because: (a) the use of Societies markedly increased implementation speed in the latter part of the first
project; (b) plans include a major expansion of the coverage of populations with targeted interventions,
IEC, mass media and other services; and (c) states and municipal corporations have designed and
budgeted their own comprehensive programs. Spending in the First HIV/AIDS Control Project averaged
nearly US$18 million per year in the last two years even though not all states were fully active. Partly
5 India has no reliable data on STI prevalence. Indirect estimates suggest that approximately 5-10 percent of the
population suffers from STIs (a total of about 40-50 million adults), and it is likely that many of these individuals
belong to groups at high-risk of contracting or spreading HIV.



8
blood safety, exceeded expectations.
Eligibility criteria and phasing. States and municipal corporations would be eligible to become involved
in the project after: (a) forming AIDS Control Societies; (b) appointing an NGO advisor; (c) undertaking
pilot projects on targeted interventions; (d) completing and conducting a quality control review of at least
one round of sentinel surveillance; and (e) completing a PIP. In December 1999, states with the largest
HIV burden were appraised as priorities. The following states and municipal corporations had achieved
these benchmarks: Ahmedabad, Andhra Pradesh, Chennai, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharasthra,
Manipur, Mumbai, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal. These nine states and three municipal
corporations currently account for over 75 percent of the new HIV infections in the country. The
remaining states and municipal corporations were appraised in two rounds in February and May, 1999.
Only two remain and will be appraised by July 31, 1999.
Financial arrangements and management system. Financial management arrangements for the project are
detailed in Annex 7. NACO funds would be provided through the MOHFW budget with project funds as
a special allocation. Fund flow from NACO to AIDS Control Societies is on an annual basis. The initial
allocation would be based on the cash flow forecasts of Societies, which in turn would be based on their
work programs and budgets. Subsequent funding would be based on performance of key indicators and
projected fund requirements. IDA would reimburse the Special Account based on the review of
consolidated Project Management Reports (PMR) received from NACO. An integrated computerized
financial management system  (FMS) would be implemented.  FMS implementation, including
procurement of necessary hardware, development of software, preparation of an operations manual, and
staffing and training of staff, would be completed by December 31, 1999. Beginning October 1, 2000,
disbursement would be based on PMRs and related Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI)
guidelines. Disbursements until this date would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures.
NACO and AIDS Control Societies would adhere to all the requirements of the FMS. NACO accounts
would be audited by the Controller and Auditor General of India. AIDS Control Societies would be
audited regularly by chartered accountant firms.
Financial reporting and auditing would follow LACI guidelines and be in accordance with OP10.02.
NACO would provide a national consolidated PMR rather than individual reports for every state. AIDS
Control Societies would submit simplified financial and key indicator reports to NACO regularly.
Retroactive Financing. In order to facilitate a timely project start and to meet several costs associated
with the decentralization of the program, retroactive financing up to US$12 million equivalent, about six
percent of the credit, would be provided for eligible expenditures. Expenditures for project-specific items
made after February 28, 1999 would be eligible.
Procurement arrangements. Procurement arrangements for the project are detailed in Annex 7. NACO
would procure most goods and equipment for the project through an outside procurement agency. AIDS
Control Societies would procure STI drugs and most local NGO services.
External agencies. As noted in the preface, UNAIDS, USAID, DFID, and CIDA are some of the external
partners currently supporting the second phase of GOI's National HIV/AIDS Control Program in various
states and regions. NACO coordinates all donor activities in a consortium-like collaboration. Under this
model, any external agency providing significant financing for HIV/AIDS control or providing technical
assistance would be part of the National Program Review (NPR- see section E8 below). At the state
level, all external agencies would coordinate activities under the auspices of the Steering Committee of
the AIDS Control Societies. Collaborative efforts on supervision of specific states would also be
undertaken. No formal co-financing is planned.



9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.
Five project design alternatives were considered and rejected. First, focusing narrowly on targeted
interventions to groups at high risk was rejected in favor Jf an approach that prioritizes such
interventions within a broad-based program. In addition to having direct benefits on health, preventing
HIV infection in groups at low risk maintains visibility and political support for HlV/AIDS control, and
helps avoid stigmatizing groups at high risk. Second, providing Western-based treatment and care of
AIDS cases, for example triple anti-retroviral therapy, was rejected because such a project would be cost
ineffective and of limited sustainability. These treatments are hugely expensive, remain palliative, and
are unlikely to have an impact on HIV transmission.6  Third, relying more on the private sector to
directly provide services has been rejected because many private sector facilities are antagonistic to HIV
patients (such patients have been turned away) and because private physicians, particularly non-allopathic
doctors, are largely unregulated and often unlicensed. However, the project would engage the private
sector in broad mobilization, workplace programs, and advocacy activities, and in providing important
private goods such as affordable STI treatment, HIV diagnosis, and AIDS care. This would be done
through training of providers, development of algorithms, and collaboration with professional groups.
Fourth, the complete decentralization of HIV/AIDS services to local levels integrated with primary care
was rejected because of the need for a national policy, strategic leadership, and monitoring, and because
health systems investments do not tend to be most effective in controlling particular endemic diseases.
Fifth, having no project, or maintaining the status quo, was rejected because the epidemic would grow
substantially without a large mobilization of actors and resources against HIV/AIDS.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned)
Sector issue                           Project                       Project Status
Report Ratings (*)
Bank-financed ongoing                                                         IP       DO
projects related to HIV/AIDS
1) Endemic disease control
a) HIV control            First HIV/AIDS Control                          HS         S
b) Tuberculosis control   Tuberculosis Control                             U         U
c) Poor reproductive health   Reproductive and Child Health                S         S
2) State health systems      AP First Referral, State Systems II, Orissa and  S         S
Maharashtra
Ongoing health sector projects  DFID Projects: West Bengal Sexual Health,
financed by development      Partnerships for Sexual Health, and Healthy
partners                     Highway Projects in AP, Kerela, Gujarat and Orissa
USAID Projects: Tamil Nadu APAC and
Maharashtra HIV/AIDS Control Projects
IP - Implementation; DO - Development Objectives. IP/DO Ratings apply to Bank projects only: HS (Highly
Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design.
The design of this project takes into account key lessons learned from international experience, and from
experience in India with the First HIV/AIDS Control Project. It also capitalizes on key lessons learned by
6Recent studies from the United States indicate that although AIDS deaths have dropped dramatically with the
advent of anti-retroviral treatments, the number of new infections has not. More recently, AIDS deaths appear to
have increased with rising resistance to these treatments.



10
other development partners working in India. Key lessons learned from global experience are: (a)
early, aggressive, preventive intervention is the most effective strategy because of the high, but hidden,
speed of HIV transmission; (b) targeted interventions to poor and marginalized groups at high risk, within
a broader campaign, are the most effective way to reduce transmission because of multiplier effects of
prevention to the general population; and (c) HIV has strong linkages to other health issues such as STIs
and tuberculosis and preventing or treating these illnesses can markedly reduce the burden of H1V/AIDS.7
Key lessons learned from the GOI's first LIIV/AIDS Control Project (Credit 2350-IN), including
those from the forthcoming Implementation Completion Report (ICR) are: (a) in order to accommodate
varying epidemiological patterns, institutional capacities, and program commitments, program
implementation should be decentralized; (b) interstate variability in performance can be addressed by
adopting minimum standards for performance, national backup and capacity building teams, and
widespread IEC, all combined with incentive structures for better-performing states; (c) institutional
rigidities that can slow disbursement of funds to state and local operational programs can be addressed by
encouraging the use of Societies for the flow of funds; (d) effective program management requires high-
quality, up-to-date epidemiological and management information, which can be acquired by strengthening
surveillance and financial management systems; and (e) drugs require efficient, effective, and accountable
procurement and distribution. Finally, lessons learned from other IDA projects include: (a) the need to
focus early on procurement planning; (b) the need for continuity of staff in key positions; and (c) the need
for integrated reviews of activities at the state level. The project would incorporate these lessons by
creating linkages with: (i) the Reproductive and Child Health projects on training, IEC and STI treatment;
(ii) the Tuberculosis Project on treatment of OIs and drug procurement; and (iii) the State Health System
Projects on blood safety, hospital precaution programs and treatment of Ols.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
The GOI and state governments have taken many steps that indicate strong commitment to and ownership
of the project. Most importantly: (a) GOI has doubled its financial allocation to NACO (to US$200
million) under the Ninth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002); (b) GOI recently adopted a National Policy
Document (see Annex 3); and (c) most states and major municipal corporations have already set up AIDS
Control Societies and written detailed PIPs.
5. Value added of Bank support.
The most important incremental contributions of the Bank's involvement would be in the form of policy,
coordination, and technical expertise. First, in addition to its own technical and economic experience,
IDA has already helped to mobilize other partners, such as UNAIDS, to work under a NACO-led
HIV/AlDS developmental framework (see preface). Second, IDA's involvement would help to ensure
that the project focuses on cost-effective interventions that benefit the poor. Third, as the largest financier
of HIV/AIDS control projects in the world, IDA would bring much experience from other countries to
assist India in modernizing technical paradigms for HIV/AIDS control. Fourth, using the ICR for the first
HIV/AIDS Control Project, IDA would help to apply the lessons learned to the project. Aside from the
expertise it would bring to the project, IDA is the donor with best capacity to assist India on the scale and
time frame needed to control HIViAIDS across the country.
E. Summary Project Analyses (detailed assessments are in the project file; see Annex 9).
1. Economic. (see Annex 5for main assumptions).
The economic analyses provides: (a) the cost-effectiveness and benefit-cost of the project; (b) cost-
effectiveness of specific interventions; and (c) justification for public financing of the project. It is
estimated that the project would prevent at least half a million new HIV infection for a cost-effectiveness
7See P. Piot, and M. Over, ibid; J. Dayton, ibid; and Over and Ainsworth, ibid



11
of US$354 per case prevented, or US$18 per Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) gained. The benefit-
cost ratio. is estimated to be 3.47 to 1 over the project's implementation period. A sensitivity analysis
shows that even with considerable variation in key parameters the present value of the direct benefits still
exceeds the present value of costs. Cost-effectiveness analysis of specific interventions suggests that
the most cost-effective options available to India are targeted interventions among sex workers (US$3 to
7 per DALY saved) and treatment of STIs (US$2 to 6 per DALY saved). Broad-based youth
interventions, efforts to prevent mother-to-child transmission with antiretrovirals and formula feeding,
and interventions that target only males at high risk are considerably less cost effective. Finally public
financing of the project is justified because of the public good nature of HIV prevention activities, the
positive externalities associated with treating STIs and tuberculosis, and because HIV infection occurs
commonly in the poor.
2. Financial (see notes in Annex 6).
The recurrent cost liability of the project would be small. Even in the worst case scenario, the burden of
total recurrent spending generated by the project would be US$20 million per year, about five percent of
the overall central government MOHFW expenditures or less than 0.03 percent of total GOI expenditures.
As a share of state budgets, the project would have minimal fiscal impact. Recurrent spending would
vary among the states, with the largest financial burden falling on those states with the highest prevalence
of HIV, such as Maharashtra. Furthermore, the economic analysis for this project found that the present
value of the direct costs averted within the public sector would slightly exceed the present value of the
costs of the project (at a ratio of 1.03 to 1; see Annex 5). Hence, even though no attempt would be made
to recover costs, the project should pay for itself within its lifetime.
3. Technical.
HIV is only one of the two large and growing causes of death in India.8 India currently has about four
million HIV-infected people. In some groups at high risk, HIV prevalence is doubling every 2-3 years.
The technical design of the project is well suited to India's needs. First, the project woulduse strategic
epidemiological surveillance and effective evidence-based interventions, developed through 17 years
of Indian and international experience, to interrupt HIV transmission. Second, the project would
intervene most quickly in the groups at highest risk of acquiring and transmitting HIV. A similar
strategy has been used in Thailand, where early interventions targeted at groups at highest risk helped to
stabilize adult HIV prevalence at about two percent, and within the Sonagachi project in Calcutta9 where
HIV prevalence in commercial sex workers has remained low. Third, based on a wealth of experience in
other countries, the project would reduce transmission to populations at lower risk by preventing
infection among groups at high risk. For instance, it is far more cost effective to prevent transmission to
women of child-bearing potential who are at high risk than it is to prevent transmission from a pregnant,
HIV-positive woman to her fetus. Programs for lower risk people, and for those already infected with
HIV, would be financed as a necessary adjunct to interventions for groups at high risk.
4. Institutional.
The performance of states under the First HIV/AIDS Control Project has been variable - one third
implemented poorly, one third moderately well, and the remaining one third implemented successfully.
In this project, specific measures are planned at the central, state, and local levels to strengthen
8Age-specific mortality rates are increasing for only two large causes of deaths: HIV and tobacco. Projections of
future AIDS deaths have methodological limits, but conservative estinates from the Global Burden of Disease
Project (Murray and Lopez, 1996) suggest that annual Indian AIDS deaths will increase to 500,000 by 2010. In
comparison there were several thousand annual deaths in the early 1990s.
9 "Going Brothel to Brothel, Prostitutes Preach About Using Condoms", New York Times, January 4, 199, page 1.



12
institutional capacity. NACO has demonstrated that it is committed to, and capable of, moving into a
strategic and leadership role, leaving service delivery to states, municipal corporations, and NGOs. Local
institutional capacity and ownership has increased through the establishment of AIDS Control Societies
afid developing PIPs. States will differ in their implementation performance. However, NACO has
reorganized to increase the technical assistance it can provide to improve the capacity of weaker states to
deliver services. During preparation, a strong sentinel surveillance system was established and this would
be expanded to other types of surveillance early in the project. The Technical Resource Groups (TRGs)
are expert groups intended to provide specific technical assistance to NACO, states and municipal
corporations. Thus far a total of 12 TRGs have been formed in areas such as surveillance, targeted
interventions, human rights, labor and workplace issues, women and HIV, and low-cost AIDS care.
5. Social.
GOI contracted an expert group to conduct a Social and NGO Assessment of key social issues expected
during the project. The chief findings were the need for the project to target and maximize the
effectiveness of interventions among groups at high risk, protect human rights and to address women's
issues. For the delivery of interventions to groups at high risk, NACO is partnering with NGOs and
CBOs - organizations that have a long history of addressing the needs of marginalized populations. The
project would also adopt the Assessment's recommendations to decentralize planning, encourage
participation of beneficiaries, and build capacity among NGOs in order to maximize the effectiveness of
targeted interventions. Second, the project would address human rights issues related to HIV/AIDS.
Stigmatization of and discrimination against people infected with HIV continue to be a problem among
the public and even the medical community. The NPL supports the protection of human rights by
discouraging mandatory testing for IRV and places special emphasis on voluntary testing and counseling.
Special covenants would be agreed to under the project to support the NPL (see Section F. 3 below).
Furthermore, stigmatized groups (HIV-positive people; People Living With AIDS or PLWAs; and groups
at high risk of infection) would be represented on AIDS Control Societies. Third, the project would
address women's issues related to HIV/AIDS. Women are more biologically susceptible to HIV/AIDS;
more likely to be marginalized, both economically and socially, if they have HIV/AIDS; and are more
susceptible to violence and sexual abuse, which contributes to the transmission of HIVP! NACO has
established a TRG on women to ensure that an ongoing effort is made to address the special problems
facing women. Women would be the primary beneficiaries of project interventions targeting commercial
sex workers, as well as through linkages with the Bank's Reproductive and Child Health projects.
Tribal strategy. Project activities focus on urban areas with a high prevalence of HIV. Where
appropriate, GOI and the states have built strategies into their PIPs to reach tribal areas, based on locally
appropriate community awareness programs and training. These measures are consistent with the Bank's
Operational Directive (OD) 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples and OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.
6. Environmental assessment. Environmental Category   []A   []B   [A7 C
The project would generate minimal hazards from needles and sharps and would be implemented in
accordance with the Government of India's Notification of Bio-Medical Waste (Management and
Handling) Rules 1998. NACO would be responsible for proper destruction and disposal of sharps, and
for safe segregation and disposal of blood products. Under the project, 10,000 needle crushers would be
procured to destroy sharps. Further, staff would be trained in the safe handling of blood products, and in
proper techniques for destroying and disposing of needles. No major hospital construction is planned that
could generate significant medical waste.
' M. Miller and D. Paone, Social Science Medicine, Vol. 47, No. 6, 1998, pp. 765-777.



13
7. Participatory approach.
GOI has sought the consultation and active collaboration of various stakeholders. Primary beneficiaries
include groups at high risk of HIV transmission; and the general community at lower risk. Other key
stakeholders include collaborating agencies - NGOs, donors, private sector entities, Government
ministries and supporting agencies such as TRGs and external partners. Stakeholders have collaborated
in project preparation as follows: (a) more than 100 NGOs attended a workshop aimed at expanding
Government/NGO partnerships; (b) NGOs, commercial sex workers and People Living with HIV/AIDS
participated in state level planning workshops, providing inputs for targeted interventions; (c)
representatives of large-scale industry and labor organizations assisted NACO in designing workplace-
based AIDS control programs; (d) UNAIDS, other donors and IDA worked on a joint mission in June
1998; and (e) UNAIDS and others joined GOI in workshops to develop best practice documents for the
various TRGs. During implementation, collaboration would be institutionalized though stakeholder
participation in the executive committees of the AIDS Control Societies, as well as in various other
forums.
8. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
Using core indicators shown in Annex 1, M&E would be the responsibility of NACO. Many of the core
indicators rely on the routine PMRs. A national M&E agency would be selected early in the first year of
the project. Each AIDS Control Society would have an M&E officer, and M&E would be conducted by
outside agencies at baseline, interim, and final years. The Performance and Expenditure Annual Review,
or PEAR, would involve NACO, AIDS Control Societies, and IDA jointly reviewing project
expenditures, financial flows, annual action plans, PMRs, and project input, output, outcome, and process
indicators. The PEAR would be the basis for allocation of funds by NACO to AIDS Control Societies.
The NPR would review annual overall program achievements and include key external partners, NGOs,
and community leaders under the auspices of the National AIDS Control Board, the apex committee for
HIV/AIDS control. Specific independent reviews of drug and condom quality, surveillance and
management would be done in the second year of the project.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability.
Critical to the overall sustainability of the project would be: (a) technical sustainability, which involves
using the most cost-effective interventions available to meet project goals; (b) managerial sustainability or
commitment to project goals and generation of the data necessary to use project resources effectively;
(c) financial sustainability, or continuous availability of financial resources necessary to carry out project
activities. Technical sustainability would be sought through: (a) focusing on low-cost, preventive
interventions, thereby reducing the future number of patients requiring expensive treatment from the
public health sector; and (b) strengthening capacity for service delivery at the local level, including
increased participation by beneficiaries and NGOs. Managerial sustainability would be strengthened
by: (a) enhancing management capacity at NACO (including monitoring, surveillance, and operational
and clinical research skills); and (b) strengthening local capacity for managing service delivery and
conducting operational research. As was discussed in the Financial Analysis (see Section E2 and Annex
6), the financial sustainability of the project would be reasonable given the minimal recurrent cost
liability; and public sector treatment costs prevented. The states' willingness to shoulder the recurrent
liability of continuing AIDS prevention activities upon completion of the project would be enhanced by:
(a) the project's efforts to mobilize additional long-term political support through IEC; (b) the emergence
of more notable and visible Indians with AIDS; and (c) avoiding interventions with high recurrent costs
(such as triple therapy and AZT programs).



14
2. Critical risks.
Two key known risks are likely to arise during implementation. First, there will be substantial pressure
on GOI to finance expensive triple therapy or other anti-retroviral treatments that have little or no impact
in controlling the epidemic. The project may be criticized for doing too little for those already infected
with HIV, and more specifically, for not providing expensive anti-retroviral or in-hospital treatment for
AIDS cases. There is public disagreement on the role of these therapies in the international public health
community. The project would attempt to mitigate such risks by guiding use of new therapies based on
cost effectiveness, recurrent cost liability, and review of public and private benefits, impact on the poor
and consistency with project objectives. Second, there is a major risk of political pressure to spend less
than appropriate on groups at highest risk and more than appropriate on less effective general community
efforts, such as youth campaigns. The project would mitigate such risk by emphasizing outcomes, use of
the PEAR, and through the NPL. There are other risks that cannot be anticipated today, and management
of these will be an ongoing challenge.
Table of Critical Risks
Risk                    Risk             Risk Minimization Measure
Rating
1. Affecting Project 's Development Objectives
Decline in political commitment   M      *   National Policy Document
to reducing HIV/AIDS                     *   Involvement of NGOs, CBOs, PLWAs, and representatives of high-risk
groups in planning and delivery of project services
*   Better research and monitoring would provide empirical evidence of
growth in the epidemic, and effectiveness of preventive strategies
Pressure to shift from prevention  S     *   Use of interventions would be guided by: (a) cost effectiveness; (b)
strategies to high- cost treatment       recurrent cost liability; (c) review of public versus private benefits; and (d)
impact on the poor
*   Project would finance broad social mobilization, education carnpaigns,
and use of NGOs for service delivery and informed advocacy to mitigate risks
of dropping prevention strategies
Targeted intervention activities  S      *   Service delivery would be decentralized, make maximum use of peer
not effective in modifying               counselors and NGOs, be integrated with treatment and care and be based on
behavior                                 successful models elsewhere (e.g., Calcutta, Thailand)
2. Affecting Project's Outputs
Overall institutional or          S      *   Project would involve a major shift in AIDS prevention from
managerial capacity is inadequate        centralized, bureaucratic response to one involving decentralized activities
within a national framework; wider participation of stakeholders; and
increased emphasis on evidence-based approaches and use of M&E
*   Capacity building is one of two project objectives, absorbing 29% of
project budget
Weak procurement and financial    S      *   Independent procurement agency established at start of project
management                               *   Use of state and municipal AIDS Control Societies to expedite flow of
funds and incentive structure for better performance; finance flows tied to
performance
*   Capacity building in FMS
Failure of local levels to deliver  S    *   Competitive basis for funding; ongoing performance review;
services                                 prioritization of target groups
States capacity is variable       M      *   Capacity building activities at state and national level
*   NACO would link state-level performance to budgeting, and would
provide substantial technical capacity to weaker states
*   Annual surveillance from each state would be required
Weaknesses in external            M      *   Strong NACO role, including prior agreement on activities with other
collaboration                            agencies
3. Overall Risks                M to S
S (substantial) M (medium)



15
3. Possible controversial aspects.
Several aspects of the project may become controversial. First, targeting of interventions to marginalized
groups at high risk may meet with opposition on the grounds that these groups have chosen to engage in
risky behaviors. The project would support research exploring the underlying social and economic
factors that lead people to engage in high-risk behaviors. Further, NGOs and representatives of the
groups at high risk would be involved in IEC campaigns to sensitize the wider population. Second,
despite a national policy which forbids mandatory HIV testing, coercive testing is likely to occur in
isolated areas. Involving NGOs and CBOs and using mass IEC would help to enhance social support for
HIV/AIDS control. The project would assist GOI in protecting human rights consistent with adopted
resolutions WHA 41.24 of the World Health Assembly, and the United Nations Commission for Human
Rights Resolution 1997/33, "The Protection of Human Rights in the Context of HIV and AIDS." This
will be closely monitored during implementation.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Actions taken prior to negotiations.
Prior to negotiations, GOI carried out the following:
(a) The National PIP, incorporating the comments of the appraisal mission, has been finalized.
(b) Clearances by the Expenditure Finance Committee and relevant clearances by the Planning
Commission have been obtained. Furthermore, the Indian Delegation confirmed that all necessary GOI
and state clearances and approvals for the project have been obtained.
(c) The National Policy Letter (Annex 3) has been finalized.
(d) Procurement plans for the first two years of the project (firm for the first year, and tentative for the
second), incorporating the appraisal mission's comments, have been finalized.
(e) Baseline values for key performance indicators for all states have been finalized.
(f) Further progress on financial management, including: (i) an agreement on the broad form and content
of the PMRs between the NACO and IDA; (ii) completion of one iteration of the Operations Manual; (iii)
initiation of the recruitment for a Finance Director at NACO, and for financial controllers and other key
finance and accounting personnel at state and municipal AIDS Control Societies; and (iv) initiation of the
process of acquiring computers at NACO and the participating state and municipal AIDS Control
Societies.
2. Assurances during negotiations/other covenants.
In addition to standard assurances on financial monitoring, reporting and audit, procurement and tribal
and resettlement issues, during negotiations, GOI provided the following assurances:
(a) GOI would implement the project based on PIPs and the NPL, including giving utmost priority to: (i)
successful implementation of the targeted intervention component; (ii) efficient and timely procurement,
including annual procurement plans; (iii) monitoring and evaluation; (iv) timely completion of annual
surveillance; (v) protection of human rights; and (vi) ensuring voluntary and confidential testing is
available in public and voluntary sectors.
(b) GOI would maintain and ensure NACO and states or municipal corporations maintain adequate
staffing and resources to implement the project. NACO and AIDS Control Societies would have to
ensure membership of NGOs and CBOs on their governing bodies and the appointment of a nodal person
responsible for hearing grievances on human rights issues.
(c) GOI would ensure that NACO would continue to report to the National AIDS Control Board and
maintain its financial and administrative autonomy as established in the first HIV/AIDS Control Project
(Credit 2350-IN).
(d) GOI would ensure staffing of core FMS staff by August 31, 1999 at national and local levels, and



16
appoint chartered accountants by September 30, 1999.
(e) GOI would not forward Credit proceeds to local societies that have been found not to be performing
satisfactorily. GOI would also hold the PEAR and NPR every year and ensure that each state completes
requirements for the PEAR and annual M&E reports.
(f) In the second year of the project, GOI would ensure that selected implementation societies have
independent reviews of management and governance. Also in the second year, GOI would ensure that an
independent review of drug and condom quality used in the National Program is undertaken.
3. Effectiveness and disbursement conditions.
(a) The conditions of effectiveness are standard IDA conditions.
(b) For reasons understood by IDA, GOI was unable to finalize selection of an independent procurement
agency as planned, although technical bid evaluation has been found satisfactory. GOI agreed during
negotiations that appointment of this agency would be a condition of disbursement against central
expenditures.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ I The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. A procurement agency should begin services by effectiveness.
[x] The Project Implementation Plans has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality. Staffing at the national and local levels has begun. Local PIPs for priority states have also been
evaluated. AIDS Control Societies have been formed in all but two states and municipal corporations,
and staffing of key Project Directors for high priority states and municipal corporations is in place.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): [x] Not
applicable
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies. [x] Not applicable
Task Leader: Prabhat Jha
Sector Manager: Richard L. Skolnik
Country Directo  Edwin R. Lim



17
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
India
Second National HiIV/AIDS Control Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance          Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS      Sector Indicators          Sector/Country
Goal                                               Reports
To reduce the       *  Life expectancy, under-  .  National          .  Improved health leads to
burden of major         five mortality, and DALYs   economic and         greater economic
diseases by improving    .  Percentage of          epidemiological data  productivity and reduced
coverage, cost-         population living in poverty                    poverty
effectiveness, and equity
of social programs
Project Development    Outcome/Impact              Project Reports
Objective               Indicators
*  To reduce the rate    .  Stabilization of the   .  Annual sentinel   .  Surveys of sentinel
of growth of HIV        annual percentage increase   surveillance reports   populations are reliable and
infection               of sentinel seroprevalence                       representative
by project completion"'                         .  There is a sustained
political commitrnent to
cover marginalized groups at
high risk
.  To strengthen        .  Percentage of states and  a  PMR              a  Commitment among all
India 's capacity to    municipalities in which    a  Qualitative       levels of staff to target
respond to HI7V/AIDS    Societies are:             indicators            groups at highest risk. This
(a) functioning; and                            would be facilitated by
(b) effectively managing                        community organizations
targeted interventions'2                        and empowerment of groups
at high risk
" Baseline studies of seroprevalence in sentinel populations (antenatal and STI, clinic patients) were only recently
conducted. Hence, it will be some time before the annual percentage increase in seroprevalence among these
patients is available. Antenatal patients are better reference populations because the prevalence in this group: (a)
better reflects prevalence in the general population; and (b) is much less variable from one state to another.
12 Functioning is a qualitative indicator capturing the presence of an active society and spending on all components
as per annual plans. Effective management would be indicated by the extent to which targeted interventions have
been implemented - specifically: (a) whether or not mapping has been carried out; (b) the extent to which NGOs and
CBOs are involved; and (c) coverage of groups at high risk.



18
Narrative Summary         Key Performance        Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators            Evaluation
Output from each      Output Indicators          Project Reports
Component
1. Improved           (a) Completion of          .  PMR             .  Participatory groups
identification and    participatory mapping of                      involved in mapping
interventions for groups  groups at high risk                       *  Non-stigmatizing,
at high risk                                                        culturally acceptable
(b) Percentage of groups at   .  M&E System    interventions bring about
high risk covered by peer    (including      lasting behavioral changes
counseling, condoms       behavioral
promotion, participatory  surveillance system)
mapping, STI treatment and
client programs by NGOs,
CBOs, or the public sector
c) Rate of condom use in  a  M&E system
intervention groups
2. Improved awareness  (a) Percentage of population  .  M&E system  .  Awareness is correlated
about HIV, and        aware of HIV/AIDS                             with change in patterns of
interventions for general                                           risky behavior
community groups      (b) Number of sites offering   .  PMR         .  Those who test positive
voluntary testing counseling,                will refrain from behavior
and average attendance per                   that puts others at risk
clinic
3. Enhanced quality,  (a) Revised guidelines for    *  M&E system   .  NACO and states
capacity and cost-    prioritized management of                     continue to resist pressure to
effectiveness of low-cost  OIs produced, tested, and                subsidize cost-ineffective
AIDS care              disseminated                                  AIDS management.
. Guidelines gain
(b) Number of public,     *  PMR             acceptance among providers
voluntary and private                         .  Hospice and home care
facilities with training, 01                  acceptable to PLWA and
drugs and beds                                families
a NGO capacity and
(c) Number of AIDS cases    .  M&E system    interest in care of AII)S
treated for Ols                              patients



19
Narrative Summary    Key Performance            Monitoring and     Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
4. Improved institutional (a) Local societies staffing    *  PMR   *  Commitment among
capacity in           and functioning               N WACO records   central staff to redistribute
management,                                                         decision- making powers to
information, training  (b) Actual expenditure as a   .  PMR         decentralized levels
and research          percentage planned
expenditure in action plans
(c) Percentage of baseline    .  M&E system  .  State capacity for
sentinel surveillance sites                  conducting, supervising, and
that are repeated annually                   managing the sentinel sites is
adequate
(d) Timely completion of    .  PMR           a  Information from M&E
annual M&E reports at all    .  M&E system   used for planning at all levels
levels
(e) Number of operational    *  NACO reports   .  Indian academic
research grants awarded                      institutions have interest in
through competitive process                  and capacity for
epidemiological and
operational research
.  Political interference in
research is minimal
5. Enhanced HIlY/AIDS   (a) Number of government   .  PMR
control by other sectors  and private intersectoral
programs initiated



20
Annex 2
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Components
Project activities are grouped into two components and five sub-components. Both components reflect
activities at the national, state, and municipal levels.
A. Deliver cost-effective interventions against EIIV/AIDS - US$162.7 million
1. Priority targeted interventions for groups at high risk (US$52.8 million). The most important
component of the project aims to reduce the spread of HIV in groups at high risk by identifying target
populations and providing peer counseling, condom promotion, treatment of STIs and client programs.
These would be locally modified and delivered largely through NGOs, CBOs, and the public sector, using
generic protocols.
(a) Identify those groups at highest risk. This would involve: (i) participatory approaches (i.e., led by
peers); (ii) locating groups at high risk, chiefly commercial sex-trade workers, truck drivers, injecting
drug users, migrant laborers, and men having sex with men; (iii) determining the access to, and
demand for, health services among the groups at high risk; and (iv) developing strategies based on
outreach, peer education, and partnerships.
(b) Provide integrated peer counseling, condoms, and treatment for STIs for those at high risk.
Representatives of groups at high risk would be trained to provide peer education aimed at changing
high-risk behaviors. In addition, these interventions would: (i) train primary healthcare providers in
syndromic case management and counseling in condom use; (ii) strengthen STI clinics in each district
hospital and medical college hospital; and (iii) improve referral services for STI treatment. In
addition, client programs would aim to deliver targeted IEC, condom promotion and STI treatment
and counseling to clients of commercial sex workers.
IDA would finance minor civil works; STI drugs; NGO and consultant services; equipment; training and
fellowships; IEC; operational research and other studies; and incremental salaries and operating expenses.
2. Preventive interventions for the general community (US$77.4 million). These would involve the
following activities:
(a) Conduct IEC and awareness campaigns. Activities would include: (I) conducting mass media
campaigns at the state and municipal levels; (ii) conducting local IEC campaigns using traditional
media such as folk arts and street theatre; (iii) promoting advocacy campaigns; (iv) conducting
awareness programs geared toward youth and college students; and (v) organizing family health
awareness campaigns.
(b) Provide voluntary testing and counseling. This would involve: (I) increasing the availability of,
and demand for, voluntary testing, especially joint testing of couples; (ii) training grassroots-level
healthcare workers in HIV/AIDS counseling; and (iii) providing counseling services through all blood
banks in India (public and private), and through public STI clinics.



21
(c) Reduce transmission by blood transfusions and occupational exposure. Activities would include:
(I) setting up ten new modem blood banks, upgrading 20 existing major blood banks where there is
demand, and setting up 80 new district-level blood banks; (ii) establishing 40 component separation
units; (iii) establishing mandatory screening of all blood units for Hepatitis C virus; (iv) mobilizing
voluntary blood donation; (v) training providers in the rational use of blood products; (vi) facilitating
communications among blood banking services; (vii) providing trained counselors for blood banks, in
both the public and private sectors; and (viii) training health care workers at all levels in universal
precautions, including provision of prophylaxis drugs.
IDA would finance minor civil works, publicity, IEC, NGO services, blood safety equipment, HIV and
Hepatitis C test kits, vehicles, operational research and other studies, training and workshops, and
incremental salaries and operating expenses.
3. Low-cost AIDS care (US$32.5 million). These activities would provide seed funding for home-
based and community-based care, including increasing the availability of cost-effective interventions for
common opportunistic infections.
(a) Improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of interventions offered by existing providers. Specific
activities would include: (I) establishing best-practice guidelines, and providing the appropriate drugs
for treating common opportunistic infections (OI) at district hospitals; and (ii) training at select state-
level hospitals for the provision of referral services.
(b) Establish new support sources for care for persons with AIDS in partnership with NGOs and
CBOs. These sources would include: small community-care hospitals, hospice programs, drop-in
centers, support groups, and home-based care.
IDA wouldfinance 01 drugs, seed grants for NGO and consultant services, training and fellowships, IEC,
operational research and other studies, minor civil works, and incremental salaries and operating
expenses.
B. Strengthen capacity - US$67.1 million
4. Institutional strengthening (US$57.0 million). This component aims to strengthen the effectiveness
and technical, managerial, and financial sustainability of national, state, and municipal programs.
(a) Build implementation capacity at the states and municipal levels. Specific activities would
include: (I) forming state and municipal AIDS Control Societies; (ii) ensuring adequate staff and
skills in the Societies; (iii) transferring implementation responsibilities to the state and municipal
levels; and (iv) emphasizing primary health approaches and training; and strengthening planning,
management, and implementation capacity at all levels.
(b) Strengthen the leadership capacity of NACO. NACO would: (I) enhance strategic planning skills;
(ii) focus on disseminating best practices for targeted interventions; (iii) establish and manage
networks of technical expertise TRGs in STI/HIV/AIDS, which would catalyze and prioritize
operational research and interventions, and inform policy decisions; (iv) conduct operational research;
and (v) oversee research and development (R&D) activities nationwide.
(c) Expand and improve nationwide STI/HIV/AIDS sentinel surveillance. Specific activities would
include: (i) annual HIV sentinel surveillance in every state; (ii) STI surveillance through specific
surveys; (iii) behavioral surveillance surveys; and (iv) AIDS cases surveillance.



22
(d) Conduct training of local staff in management and provision of interventions. Activities would
include: (i) conducting a training needs assessment; (ii) developing training materials; (iii) conducting
training of trainers; (iv) providing worksite-specific training to supervisors; (v) developing training
best practices; and (vi) providing training for intersectoral groups, government officials, and social
and religious leaders.
(e) Build capacity for monitoring and evaluating program activities. Activities include: (I) creating a
computerized management information system (MIS) at the national and state levels; (ii) training
NACO staff and health specialists in evidence-based health program management (closely related to
the training objective above); (iii) conducting baseline, midterm, and final evaluations; and
(v) conducting a National Performance Review (NPR).
69 Increase India's capacity for research on HIVIMDS. Activities would include: (I) enlisting
Indian academic institutions to conduct epidemiological and operational research, including
STI/HIV/AEDS research and Indigenous Systems of Medicine research, through peer reviewed
competitions; (ii) establishing links between Indian research institutions and multilateral and
international institutions; (iii) pilot efforts to develop an HIV vaccine; and (iv) improving linkages to
international research in infectious diseases, such as the Tropical Disease Research Program of the
WHO.
IDA wouldfinance limited civil works, equipment, vehicles, MIS, training and fellowships, operational
research, cause of death studies, R&D, and incremental salaries and operating expenses.
5. Intersectoral collaboration (US$10.1 million). This component would promote collaboration among
the public, private, and voluntary sectors. Activities would be coordinated with other programs within the
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and other central ministries and departments, as well as those
carried out by private corporations, industrial groups, voluntary groups, and civil society. Collaboration
would focus on: (a) learning from the innovative HIV/AIDS programs that exist in other sectors; and
(b) sharing in the work of generating awareness and advocacy, and of delivering interventions.
IDA would finance training and workshops, limited equipment, NGO services, and incremental salaries
and operating expenses.



23
Annex 3
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
National Policy Letter
fXT 'ITfFi, 9 R i - 110011
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE
344 'A', NIRMAN BHAVAN, NEW DELHI - 110011
J. V. R. PRASADA RAO                                (E-mail address: nacodel@del2.vsnl.net.in)
Addl. Secy. and Project Director
National AIDS Control Organisation
Tel 3017706 Fax: 3793320
Dated: 7.5.1999
Dear Mr. Edwin Lim,
This communication is to inform the IDA which has offered an
assistance of 191 million dollars for the implementation of the Second
Phase of National HIV/AIDS Control Programme which addresses selected
priority aspects of the National AIDS Control Policy, a copy of which
is attached.   This Policy has been formulated in close consultation
with the State Governments, Ministries and Departments in Government
of India, the NGO community and leaders of civil society and
organizations of People Living with HIV/AIDS.   The Policy has been
approved by the National AIDS Committee, which is the policy making
body for the National AIDS Control Programme.   The Policy has also
been approved by the Central Council for Health & Family Welfare,
which is the policy making body for the entire Health Ministry.   The
Policy Paper is now ready for approval by the Cabinet.   We hereby
confirm our full support and commitment to implement the Policy in all
its aspects.  The following are some of the highlights of the Policy,
which have a major bearing upon the design of the IDA assistance in
policy implementation.
1)   In accordance with the 7th Schedule entry no. 29 in List III
(Concurrent List) of the Constitution of India, and reflecting the
extreme urgency with which HIV prevention and control need to be
pursued in India, HIV/AIDS control will be across all states.  Policy
implementation  will  entail  capacity  building  at  all  levels  of
Government, but with substantial delegation to the lower levels of
Governments in the states and municipalities.  Moreover, we see it as
essential to complement and support those implementation activities
with  interventions   sponsored  and  executed  by  community  based



24
organizations, the private sector and by civil society. The Policy is
to   be   regarded   as   an   enabling   framework   for   decentralized
implementation of AIDS prevention and control by those various parties
with  coordination,   quality  assurance,   technical   assistance  and
catalytic inputs to be provided by the National AIDS Control
Organization  (NACO).    The  Policy  also  reflects  the  division  of
responsibility between Union Government and State Governments set out
in our Constitution, which considers public health a state subject.
While responsibility for implementation of various segments of the
National Programme has been effectively devolved to the States and the
Societies under their control, Government of India would continue to
assume joint responsibility for activities such as epidemiological
surveillance for STDs and HIV, training and capacity building,
operational Research, and R&D through its Scientific Institutions. In
the implementation of these facets of the AIDS control program the
Union Government will take special responsibility to ensure that all
states have effective and participatory approaches of beneficiaries,
protection of human rights, prioritization of core project strategies,
and focus on solid management and performance against key benchmarks.
You will also note that the Policy makes a strong contract to
establish an enabling framework, which can mobilize the implementation
capacity of the private sector and of civil society.
2)   The  Policy emphasizes  the  specific  objective  of  ensuring the
protection and promotion of human rights of people living with
HIV/AIDS, including their rights to equal access to the health care
system, education, employment and privacy and other fundamental
rights. It also highlights the objective of overcoming stigmatization
and discrimination against HIV/AIDS-infected people, denial of service
to them and their seclusion in society, both among the public in
general and among the health care professionals in particular, and
stresses the need to launch an advocacy campaign at all levels of
society for opinion leaders, policy makers and service providers to
eliminate  such  discrimination  and  overreaction.    In  addition,  the
Policy strongly opposes mandatory testing of people for HIV/AIDS as it
lacks any public health rationale and is counter-productive for
purposes of effective detection and treatment of HIV/AIDS-infected
people. The Policy reiterates the Government's comprehensive policy of
HIV testing, which emphasizes the voluntary nature of the testing and
the confidentiality of the identity of people with positive test
results. The Policy also emphasizes the protection of the fundamental
rights of people living with HIV/AIDS in the context of providing
proper care, treatment and support in the health care facilities in
the home and in the community, including the adequate provision of
voluntary counseling services.
3)   In addition to the specific policies described in the Policy, the
Government hereby confirms its unequivocal support for the general
principles   regarding  the  avoidance   of  discrimination   and  the
protection of human rights as articulated in (i) Resolution WHA41.24
adopted on May 13, 1988 by the Forty-First World Health Assembly and



25
titled "Avoidance of discrimination in relation to HIV-infected people
and people with AIDS," and (ii) Resolution 1997/33 adopted on April
11, 1997 by the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and titled
"The  protection   of  human   rights   in  the   context   of   human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
(AIDS)."
4) The Government of India hereby confirms that all specific measures
to implement the Second Phase of the National HIV/AIDS Control
Programme will be fully consistent with the principles set forth in
the Policy and the two Resolutions referred to in this letter.   The
Government further confirms that it will bring the Policy and the two
Resolutions to the notice of all State Governments and their AIDS
Control Societies and ask them to ensure their complete observance.
5)   The Policy commits the government to mobilize cost-effective,
financially sustainable health care and support for People Living with
HIV/AIDS wherever feasible, on the basis of family and community
participation.
6) The decentralized policy and program implementation envisaged
under  the  Policy  is  seen  by  Government  as  requiring  for  all
participants and partners a strong contract to transparency and
performance-based accountability, in the implementation of HIV/AIDS
control activities. The IDA and partners from other external agencies
will also be involved in ongoing reviews.   A key element will be
adherence to outcome measurement and performance based budget
transfers to local AIDS Control Societies.
7) For the implementation of the Policy, Government is making a
strong contract to provide timely supply of condoms and drugs for
cost-effective treatment for tuberculosis and sexually transmitted
infections control and opportunistic infections in People Living with
HIV/AIDS.   To that effect we  shall  strengthen and streamline  our
systems and procedures in line with best international practices.
With kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
(J.V.R. Prasada Rao)
Mr. Edwin Lim,
Country Director, India
South Asia Region,
The World Bank,
70 Lodhi Estate,
New Delhi.



26
Annex 4
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Estimated Project Costs
US$ Million                      Rs. Million
Local     Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign   Total
Project Component
A. Deliver Cost-effective Interventions
against HIV/AIDS
(I) Priority targeted interventions for  46.20  1.60       47.8         1,987       58    2,045
groups at high risk
(ii) Preventive interventions for the  46.2    22.00       69.5        2,046       950    2,996
general community
(iii) Low-cost AIDS care            20.10       8.80       29.00         866       381    1,247
Subtotal                             138.80      32A0       146.20       4,899     1,389    6,287
B. Strengthen Capacity
(I) Institutional strengthening     49.20       2.60       51.80       2,113       112    2,225
(ii) Intersectoral collaboration      8.80      0.40        9.20          381        18      399
Subtotal                              58.0        3.00       61.0        2,495       130    2,625
Total Baseline Costs                 171.80      35.50      207.30        7,393     1,519    8,912
Physical Contingencies              15.10      3.50       18.60          651       149      800
Price Contingencies                  3.00       0.70        3.80        1,534      305    1,839
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  189.90      39.80      229.8         9,578     1,973   11,551
Financing Plan
Local             Foreign            Taxes                  Total
GOI              31.9                0.0               6.9                   38.8
IDA              151.2              39.8               0.0                   191.0
Total            183.1              39.8               6.9                   229.8



27
Estimated Project Costs by Category
(Rupee Million)                              (US$ Million)
%     % Total                               %       % Total
Foreign   Base                              Foreign    Base
Local Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange   Costs
Civil Works                   132.0   23.3    155.3       15       2      3.07     0.54     3.61       15        2
Professional Services         193.5     -      193.5      -        2      4.50       -      4.50       -         2
Furniture and Supplies        217.8   24.2    242.0       10        3     5.07     0.56     5.63       10        3
Bloodbank Equipment           226.6  340.0   566.6        60        6     5.27     7.91    13.18       60        6
HIV Kits and Blood Lab Supply   600.0  600.0  1,200.0     50       13    13.95    13.95    27.91       50        13
Equipment (Other)             114.2   28.6    142.8       20       2      2.66     0.66     3.32       20        2
STI Medicines                 393.5     -      393.5      -        4      9.15       -      9.15       -         4
01 Medicines                  340.8   340.8   681.5       50        8      7.92    7.92    15.85       50        8
Other Lab Supplies             60.9   60.9    121.7       50        1      1.42     1.42    2.83       50        1
Vehicles                       44.3    7.8     52.1       15        1      1.03    0.18     1.21       15        1
HMIS and M&E                  171.6     -      171.6      -         2     3.99       -      3.99       -         2
IEC                           967.0     -      967.0       -       11    22.49       -      22.49      -         11
Training and Workshops        673.2     -     673.2       -        8      15.66     -      15.66       -         8
Policy and Other Studies       42.4     -      42.4       -         -      0.99      -      0.99       -         -
Operations Research and       129.0     -      129.0      -         1      3.00      -      3.00       -         I
Surveillance
Cause of Death Studies         64.5     -      64.5       -         1      1.50      -      1.50       -         I
R&D                            86.0     -       86.0       -        1      2.00      -      2.00       -          I
Fellowships (Local and Foreign)    50.9   50.9    101.8   50        1      1.18     1.18    2.37       50         1
Consultants                   134.1     -      134.1      -         2      3.12      -      3.12       -         2
NGO Services                  492.4     -      492.4       -        6     11.45      -      11.45      -         6
Services for Priority Interventions  1,024.4    -  1,024.4  -      11    23.82       -     23.82       -         11
TRGs                          430.0     -      430.0       -        5     10.00      -      10.00      -         5
Subtotal                     6,589.1  1,476.3  8,065.4    18       90    153.23   34.33   187.57       18        90
Salaries of Additional Staff  420.3     -      420.3      -         5     9.77       -      9.77       -         5
Operational Expenses          242.6   27.0    269.6       10        3      5.64    0.63     6.27       10        3
Building Maintenance           20.3    2.3     22.5       10        -      0.47    0.05     0.52       10        -
Equipment Maintenance         110.4   12.3    122.7       10        1      2.57    0.29     2.85       10        1
Vehicle Maintenance            10.8    1.2      12.0      10        -      0.25    0.03     0.28       10        -
Subtotal                      804.4   42.7    847.1       5        10    18.70    1.00    19.70        5         10
Total Baseline Costs         7,393.5  1,519.0  8,912.5    17       100   171.94   35.33   207.27       17       100
Physical Contingencies        650.8   149.4   800.2       19        9     15.13    3.47    18.61       19        9
Price Contingencies           1,533.9  305.0   1,838.9    17       21      2.77     1.05    3.83       28        2
Total PROJECT COSTS           9,578.2  1,973.3  11,551.5    17     130   189.85   39.85   229.80       17       111
Note Numbers may not appear to add due to rounding



28
Annex 5
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Cost-Benefit and Cost-Effectiveness Analyses Summary
Present Value of Flows             Fiscal Impact
Economic       Financial
Analysis       Analysis"3      Taxes           Subsidies
Benefits (present value)   $544 million    Not applicable  Not applicable
Costs (present value)   $159 million
Benefit Cost ratio      3.47: 1
Net Benefits:           $385 million
IRR:                    Not applicable
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The direct costs are the US$230 million investment costs associated with the project. These costs would
be incurred over the period 1999 - 2004. Given the expected disbursement profile, the present value of
the future investment is US$189 million when discounted with an eight percent discount rate.
The direct benefits of the project are the reduction in the number of HIV infections, and the consequent
reduction in treatment and other hospitalization costs, and ultimately AIDS deaths, that would occur as a
result of the project. It is difficult to predict the number of averted cases with any accuracy. However,
based on a dynamic computer model prepared for the project, it is estimated that, in the absence of the
project, there would be a total of 4.2 million new HIV cases in India over the period 1999 - 2004. On the
other hand, if the Second AIDS Control project was implemented over that period, and was only 50 %
successful in reducing new HIV infections amongst targeted groups, then new HIV infections would be
reduced to an estimated 3.7 million. It is this reduction of an estimated 564,000 new HIV cases in India
over the period 1999 - 2004 that is the main direct benefit of the project. Those benefits then further
manifest themselves in terms of subsequent deaths averted, as well as the averted direct and indirect costs
of treating HIV/AIDS patients.
The extent of project benefits increase significantly the longer the time period is extended after
completion of the project, given the long lead times involved. When a 25-year time frame is chosen, for
example, the number of HIV infections rise to 18.9 million by 2024 under the baseline, or "without
project" scenario, compared to 10.9 million with the project.
The cost effectiveness of the project as a whole is demonstrated by the estimate that the project is
averting each new infection of HIV/AIDS for approximately $354. Since each case of HIV infection
causes an average loss of at least 20 discounted DALYs, the project is buying a year of healthy life for
13 If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



29
approximately US$18.
The cost effectiveness of certain program  choices within the overall project design have been
examined. To begin with, the emphasis of the project is on prevention. This, in principle, is a cost
effective approach for situations like India at present, where the epidemic is at a relatively early stage;
concentrated in certain geographical and socio-economic groups; and where the Goverunent is acting
relatively early to reduce the number of high risk transmissions and secondary infections. While
widespread IEC would occur, most resources are being allocated to a tight targeting of high risk
transmitters (in particular to commercial sex workers). This can also be shown to be a particularly cost
effective strategy for India at this stage in the epidemic. 14 Further, in terms of treatment, emphasis is
being placed on cost effective, palliative care, including through community-based hospitals. Finally,
specific cost effectiveness analysis of five specific interventions have been completed (targeting
prevention for commercial sex workers; high-risk men; youth; STI management; and mother to child
transmission). The results of these studies are summarized below. These studies would help inform
policy positions by NACO and the Government against using high cost, relatively ineffective treatments.
The overall cost benefit ratio of the project is difficult to measure with precision, given the well-known
problems in placing a monetary value on human life. However, what can be concluded is the following.
The present value of the investment is $189 million ($230 million investment cost discounted at eight per
cent over 6 years). The present value of the direct costs averted within the public sector as a result of the
project are estimated to be $189 million, giving a benefit-cost ratio of 1.03:1. If the costs averted by India
as a whole are considered - that is, including those also averted in the private sector - then the present
value of benefits in terms of total direct costs averted over the period 1999-2004 rises to $512 million,
thus giving a benefit-cost ratio of 2.79:1. The benefit-cost ratio rises further when indirect costs
(especially wages foregone as a result of illness and hospitalization) are taken into account, and higher
again if wages foregone as a result of AIDS, related premature death are captured, or when a longer time
frame beyond the immediate project life is taken into account.
Main assumptions: The main assumptions are as follows: (a) the number of new HIV cases in India
would rise from 2.1 million in 1999 to 18.9 million by 2024 under a baseline scenario (i.e., in the absence
of the project), as defined by UNAIDS projections; (b) the target is to increase protected sexual
encounters to 50% of sex workers using condoms 80% of the time; and (c) if that target is, itself, achieved
at a rate of 50%, then the total number of new infections would be 10.9 million by 2024 - some 8 million
cases less than would occur in the absence of the project. Costs of treatment are based on a specifically
commissioned study for India, which estimated the weighted average cost of treating an HIV patient,
taking into account all direct and indirect costs for the patient and the hospital (including overheads).
Sensitivity analysis/switching values of critical items: The most critical assumption is the number of
new HIV cases averted as a result of the project. The main analysis concludes that, when the project
achieves one half of its target in terms of safer sexual practices, then an estimated 564,000 new HIV cases
are averted over the period 1999 - 2004. That, in turn, averts an estimated present value of $216.8 million
direct treatment cost in the public sector (giving a benefit cost ratio of 1.36:1) and an estimated present
value of direct treatment costs averted for society as a whole in India of $544 million (giving a benefit
cost ratio of 3.47: 1).
Lowering the target achievement rate from 50% to just 25% reduces the number of cases averted, and the
benefit-cost ratio consequently falls to 0.7:1 for direct public costs averted, but is a still positive 1.78 to 1
when viewed from the point of view of direct costs averted for society as a whole.
14 Over and Ainsworth, ibid.



30
The overall results can also be affected if the cost of treatment of an HIV patient declines significantly.
The analysis shows that if, for example, the cost of treatment across the board (inpatient and outpatient,
public and private hospital) falls to 75 per cent of their current estimated levels, then the benefit-cost ratio
still remains positive: a ratio of 1.02:1 when considering just public direct costs, and a ratio of 2.6:1 when
considering society as a whole.
The results were also tested when the two most important assumptions - number of cases averted and cost
of treatment - both move simultaneously in an adverse way. (That is, the project achieves 25% of its
target, and costs of treatment fall to 75% of what they are now). Under those circumstances, the benefit-
cost ratio declines to 0.52:1 for direct public costs averted, and to the lower, but still positive, 1.34:1 for
society as a whole. Using a higher discount rate of 10 per cent reduces the overall final ratio to 1.21:1.
Other parameters were also varied and tested - including raising the discount rate, and altering the
percentage of patients choosing public versus private hospitals, but the results were not particularly
sensitive to such changes, and the benefit cost ratio was always positive.
Indirect benefits: An important externality of the project is the effect that promoting safer sexual
practices would have in reducing the spread, not only of HIV/AIDS, but also of other debilitating and
costly sexually transmitted infections, such as syphilis and gonorrhea. Further, reducing the incidence of
HIV/AIDS is likely to have the positive but indirect effect of reducing another infectious and costly
disease in India - pulmonary tuberculosis. This is an important benefit for a country like India where
tuberculosis rates are already around 50 per cent of the population, and disproportionately affect the poor.
Estimates on the project files suggest the Second HIV/AIDS Control project could have the indirect
benefit of averting some $5 million per year of tuberculosis treatment costs.
Reducing pressures on the already overstretched public health system is an important indirect benefit.
Studies in Mumbai indicate that HIV cases are now the fastest growing group of diseases for some public
hospitals. Recent studies, and international experience, show that HIV cases raise the per unit cost of
treating patients, and that HIV cases can take up to 70 per cent of hospital beds, and displace non-HIV
patients.
Other indirect benefits, but which are difficult to quantify, include the social and economic benefits of
wages not being foregone as a result of premature death, and children not being withdrawn from school as
a result of sick parents or being orphaned. Finally, reducing the number and incidence of HIV infections
in India also confers indirect benefits on the countries bordering and interacting with India (including
Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bhutan) all of which would be ill-equipped to respond to a
major pandemic in the South Asia region, centered on populous India.
Limited private sector involvement and aspects of market failure are also part of the economic
justification for the project. The private sector in India, as elsewhere, has very limited incentive to engage
in preventive aspects of HIV/AIDS, especially given the "public-good" nature of effective preventive
strategies, the long asymptomatic period of HIV, and often marginalized nature of high risk groups.
Indeed, there is evidence that many in the private health sector in India are avoiding contact with
HIV/AIDS as a disease, and offloading HIV/AIDS onto the public sector, because of their perception that
their practices would be stigmatized as "AIDS clinics", and thereby lose other clients. Insufficient
response from the private sector helps justify public intervention when the problems of the disease are so
serious. Equity considerations are also relevant as part of the overall economic justification for the
project. While there is no clear evidence from India to suggest that HIV/AIDS infection rates are
disproportionately higher amongst the poor, it is true that the poor are least able to bear the significant
costs of treatment for opportunistic infections or loss of income resulting from sickness and death. A
survey of 90 inpatients and outpatients in India undertaken for this project illustrates that the average
income of patients is low ($45 per month) and that the average duration of education was only five years.



31
Further, as mentioned above, it is clear in India that the private sector hospitals are declining to treat HIV
patients, irrespective of their capacity to pay for treatment, and passing them to the public sector
hospitals. The project also specifically targets prevention at the poor, including vulnerable and exploited
female commercial sex workers in the slum areas of Mumbai and elsewhere.
In summary, the benefit-cost analysis indicates the benefits - especially the averted treatment costs -
would outweigh the costs of the investment. Those results are robust under varying and adverse
scenarios, and the results become stronger the longer the time horizon taken. When indirect benefits are
taken into account, including wages foregone as a result of premature death, the benefits outweigh costs
by a considerable margin. There are also a number of positive externalities associated with the project -
including the likelihood of moderating other infectious diseases such as STIs and Tuberculosis. Equity
considerations, the social and development impact of HIV illnesses and deaths on the poor, and the
"public-good" nature of preventive programs and the limited role and capacity of the private sector in
prevention, also lend weight to the economic argument supporting the project.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
The preceding section dealt with the overall costs and benefits of the Second National AIDS Control
Project. This section now looks at the cost effectiveness of specific interventions within the project.
As part of the preparation for this project, cost-effectiveness studies were undertaken on six major policy
alternative interventions available to NACO and program managers in India. The interventions chosen
for analysis were the following: (a) targeted interventions for sex workers; (b) targeted high-risk men; (c)
voluntary counseling and testing; (d) education programs among youth; (e) syndromic STI management;
and (f) antiretroviral interventions for mother to child transmission. A single dynamic model of a slow
growing epidemic - increasing from 1-3% prevalence over 25 years - was developed.'5 The effect of
different interventions was then determined on different outcomes by changing the appropriate model
parameters. Outcomes were examined in terms of number of cases prevented; cost per DALY saved of
interventions, and overall program costs (i.e. to assess overall affordability as well as cost-effectiveness).
Sensitivity analysis was done to examine the situation under varying scenarios. The following summarize
the main results. Details are available on the project file.
1. Targeted sex worker interventions: The cost-effectiveness analysis demonstrates that this is a
particularly sound investment because it prevents both the most new HIV-1 infections, and because it is
one of the most cost-effective. As summarized in the table below, if 80% of sex workers could be reach
with condom promotion programs which increased condom use with clients from 33% at baseline to 80%
(a result which has been achieved or exceeded elsewhere), over five years 5,610,000 HIV infections can
be averted. This includes 160,000 childhood infections prevented by preventing infections in women.
HIV prevalence would also begin to decline after 5 years. The cost per DALY saved is extremely low,
US $2.66 for a peer education and condom promotion program alone and rises to US $7.70 if a STI
management component is included. Examination of various scenarios demonstrates that the number of
infections prevented is sensitive to both the proportion of the epidemic due to sex work and coverage of
the intervention. The costs per DALY are sensitive to the proportion due to sex work but not to coverage.
Costs per DALY saved decrease with increasing sex worker prevalence. The key policy conclusion is,
however, that targeted interventions for sex workers prevents the most new cases in India (as it does in
comparable circumstances elsewhere), and is among the most cost -effective interventions. Provision of
special STI management services increases costs but may be associated with improved intervention
efficacy. The project itself takes this key conclusion into account by giving particular emphasis to
15 Plummer F, N. Nagelkerke, P. Jha, and S. Moses. A cost-effectiveness analyses of alternative HIV/AIDS
interventions in India: Forthcoming



32
prevention and greater condom amongst sex workers
The main specific assumptions for this analysis included that 50 to 80% of infections emanate from sex
workers, and that interventions can, on the basis of experience elsewhere, result in at least a 66%
reduction in transmission.
2. STI Management Intervention: STI management intervention is found to be highly cost-effective.
For example, if appropriate and effective STI management could be provided to the sexually active
population of India approximately 3,230,000 HIV infections would be averted over 5 years and HIV
prevalence would stabilize. The cost per DALY saved is also attractive - approximately $2.35 -$6.02
depending on the use of laboratory tests and drug costs. Importantly, the cost per DALY saved does vary
a good deal depending upon the overall HIV incidence in India - having an inverse relationship with
incidence.
The main specific assumptions used in these scenarios included: intervention effects can match the
Mwanza study in Africa of a 40% reduction in HIV incidence. Costs per capita of the intervention are
estimated to be around $0.39 (the Mwanza cost estimate) to $1 (an estimate based on greater use of
laboratory tests) per capita.
3. Interventions for High Risk Men: the cost effectiveness analysis suggests this intervention should be
adopted only under carefully targeted and well-designed programs, as a supplement to sex worker
interventions. Targeting high-risk males is not automatically or universally cost effective. Amongst other
things, the number of averted infections is very sensitive to the "transmission index" - the number of
subsequent partners- and so it is worthwhile to target only the highest risk men. To target 80% of all
estimated sex worker clients would cost $1,887,000,000 over five years. The overall effect is identical to
that for the sex worker intervention but at considerably higher cost - $15.42 per DALY saved (exclusive
of the cost of condoms). Also significant from a policy point of view is the finding that few infections
would be prevented by targeting high risk men that would not have otherwise have been prevented by
adopting a targeted intervention for. Thus there is probably little effect beyond what could be achieved
by a sex worker intervention and since there are many fewer sex workers it is many times more efficient
to target sex workers.
The main specific assumptions used in this particular analysis were that: men become infected from sex
workers and each HIV infected man will then subsequently result in 0.1 HIV infected individuals (e.g.
spouse) annually; that peer group interventions among men will result in an increase of condom use from
33% to 80% with sex workers and that there is no effect on condom use with non sex worker partners.
Costs are derived initially from the Kenyan experience using Indian salary costs.
4. Voluntary Counseling and Testing: the analysis showed that a voluntary counseling and HIV testing
program which could be delivered to a third of the sexually active population of India and resulted in a
50% reduction in risky sexual behavior sustained over 5 years, would have a substantial impact on the
HIV epidemic. An estimated 3,520,000 would be prevented at a cost per DALY saved of approximately
US$9.96. In addition, HIV prevalence would stabilize. The estimates of intervention efficacy are the key
assumption here. The intervention effect has been determined from randomized trials, but the duration of
the effect is unknown. Some data indicates that the effect has only about one year durability. If this is the
case, then the cost per DALY would increase as further voluntary counseling and testing would be
required to reinforce the program.
The assumptions here are that voluntary counseling and testing is delivered to one third of the sexually
active population of India and that a 50% reduction in risky behavior, independent of test result, occurs.



33
5. Youth Interventions: the cost effectiveness analysis yields some very stark conclusions. In essence,
much of the possible reduction in HIV spread, and the relative cost-effectiveness of interventions,
depends heavily upon the type of "youth" involved in programs, and the success of those programs.
Impact is critically dependent upon reaching those with the highest number of partners, and having a
successful program to change behavior. For example, a highly successful program (one that achieves 50
per cent reduction in risky behavior) could avert approximately 3,520, 000 HIV infections over 5 years,
but at considerable more expense that sex worker or STI management interventions. A program targeting
youth sex worker clients would be quite effective in terms of the numbers of HIV infections averted, but
an IEC program targeting in school females would avert very few HIV infections, and will have virtually
negligible effect on the spread of the epidemic. The cost per infection averted also reflects those
dynamics - costs can be as high as $20,000 per single infection averted if not properly targeted. Of note,
most of the infections prevented would also be prevented by sex worker and sex worker client
interventions.
The main specific assumptions used in this particular analysis are 30% of the sexually active population
in India are youth; intervention results in a reduction in risky sex of 50%. Costs for in-school youth were
derived from the Indian Government program, Universities Talk AIDS without verification (cost of Rs 5
or US$0.12). For out-of-school youth, a peer education program with costs the same as that for high-risk
men was used.
6. Mother to Child Transmission: two broad approaches were investigated. In the first, it was assumed
that a woman was pregnant and the policy option in question was to identify a cost-effective intervention
to prevent transmission to the child. Various options were then examined: AZT by itself; AZT with
formula feeding and no breastfeeding; AZT, formula, and delivery by caesarian section and, finally, some
options involving HAART. The impacts, and relative costs, vary a good deal. Providing AZT alone
(women continue to breastfeed) is very cost ineffective at low prevalence because most of the effect of
AZT is negated by breastmilk transmission. The analysis shows that AZT and formula tend to be the most
cost effective interventions of those considered, at around $128 per DALY saved. If low cost (US$25 for
the maternal and child AZT treatment) the cost per DALY saved is approximately US$93. More
comprehensive antitretroviral treatment makes the cost prohibitive. Overall the total program costs are
very high and there is almost no effect on the epidemic. At low prevalence, most of the program costs are
in the screening component. The results are sensitive to assumptions about HIV prevalence (costs per
DALY saved start to fall significantly once there is 2% HIV prevalence, but stay high for all HAART
interventions). They are also sensitive to assumptions about the program screening costs. Perhaps, most
importantly, the epidemic continues to grow essentially unabated, putting ever more children at risk of
mother to child transmission of HIV.
The second approach looked at the issue in an even broader context. It posed this question. What is the
more cost-effective intervention: avoiding transmission to babies by intervening upstream in the infection
chain (at sex workers, high-risk men etc.) or preventing transmission with interventions in pregnancy and
the neonatal period. These results are illustrated in the table below. A sex worker or high risk male
intervention will prevent about half the HIV infections prevented by an AZT and formula feeding
intervention at much less cost per DALY saved (US$2.66 and 15.42 versus US$128.40). Importantly,
especially for policy reasons, the targeted interventions for sex workers were not simply more cost-
effective. They also had the substantial benefit that they prevented the infection in the woman in the first
place, resulting in a live mother and reduced prevalence of HIV. If sustained over 25 years such
programs ultimately surpass the number of childhood HIV infections averted by interventions in
pregnancy. This would suggest that any efforts to stem mother to child transmission should focus on, in
the first instance, prevention overall via targeting sex workers. Where AZT interventions are adopted,
they should be closely monitored to verify cost-effectiveness.



34
These models involved numerous assumptions including: mother to child transmission in the absence of
intervention was 33 %; AZT alone could reduce transmission by 33%, rising to 80% reductions in
transmission for AZT, formula, and Caesarian section.
Main assumptions: a number of general assumptions were used in examining the six broad
interventions. The assumptions were based on knowledge gained from the first AIDS project in India and
preparatory work for this project. The main assumptions can be sunmmarized as follows: incidence of
HIV in India is approximately one third of prevalence (that is, 1-3 million infections per year); the
epidemic is mostly driven by sex work; approximately one per cent of the Indian sexually active female
population is involved in commercial sex work. In general, international data on infectivity and biological
transmission were used, as these are universally applicable.  Intervention efficacy was based on
randomized clinical trials or longitudinal observational studies. For the youth intervention, where there is
little data to show that such programs are effective and optimistic assumption of 50% change in sexual
behavior was assumed. Individual cost data were determined on the basis of Indian circumstances as far
as possible. Each of the six interventions tested has involved numerous assumptions and parameters. The
details are spelt out in the individual worksheets attached to the project files.
Annex 5 Table 1: Summary of cost-effectiveness analyses
HIV Infections    Infant HIV     Program Cost    Cost Per HIV    Cost Per        HIV
Averted After   Averted After 5  Over 5 Years      Infection      DALY        Prevalence
5 Years         Years                            Averted        Saved     After 5 Years
Sex Worker
Intervention            5,610,000        160,000        $298,560,000        $53          $2.66         0.8%
STI Management          3,230,000        90,000         $780,000,000         $47         S2.35         1.1%
High Risk Men           5,610,000        160,000       $1,887,000,000       $308         $15.42        0.8%
Voluntary Counseling    3,520,000        110,000        $782,631,570        $199         $9.96         1.0%
and Testing
Youth Intervention      3,520,000        110,000       $5,203,687,500     $1,324.09      $66.20        1.0%
Mother to Child          350,000         350,000        $898,800,000       $2,568       $128.40        1.5%
Transmission
Intervention
Notes (I) The cost estimate considers an AZT and formula intervention using the current commnercial cost of AZT in India. If
AZT were to be made available at a cost of $25 per course the cost per DALY saved would fall to $93.22 and the cost per
infection prevented would be $1,864.46
(2) The actual costs shown in the third column are higher than actual program costs as they rely on total costs, and not on
marginal costs. Such cost use is consistent with conservative cost-effectiveness analyses (see: P. Jha, K. Ranson, 0. Bangoura,
Health Policy and Planning, 1998; 13:249-262)



35
Annex 6
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Financial Summary
(Years as noted, and in Millions of Rupees)
Implementation Period       Operational Period
1999-2005                 2005-2007
Project Costs
Investment Costs                                   8065.4                      605.0
Recurrent Costs                                     847.1                     1215.0
Contingencies                                      2639.0
Total                                          11,551.5                    1820.0
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IDA                                                 85%
Co-financiers
Government                                          15%
Central (see note below)
Local
User Fees/Beneficiaries                            NA
Total                                           100%
Main assumptions and comments:
1. The year-wise figures shown under "Implementation Period" include only the IDA credit and GOI's
contributions. States do make some contribution to implementing project costs, such as extending use
of existing hospitals for AIDS care. However, the marginal contribution is difficult to quantify and
has not been attempted here. Funds from bilateral agencies are largely grants and are not included in
calculations of long-term budgets. However, any recurrent costs they do generate have been taken
into consideration in GOI's budget projections for 2005-2009.
2. The year-wise figures shown under "Operational Period" include only central GOI funds, since AIDS
control has been a 100-percent centrally sponsored scheme in India since the launch of the program in
1986. The operational period budget is based on GOI Five Year Plans, including projections for
likely support for the Plan covering 2002-2007. While future budgets cannot be predicted, a rising
number of visible AIDS cases and increasing political support suggest that HIV/AIDS control
programs would continue to be an important centrally-sponsored scheme for some time. It is
expected that state contributions to HIV/AIDS control would grow over time.
3. Even if GOI ended HIV/AIDS as a centrally-sponsored scheme, it is likely that at least major states
could manage the fiscal impact of the project for three reasons. First, public expenditure on health at
the state level is generally low to begin. For example, expenditure on health amounts to only 3.5
percent of total state expenditure, and less than one per cent of State Domestic Product (SDP) in
Maharashtra. Second, within those overall health budgets, expenditure on AIDS control and
prevention is very small and starting from a near-zero base. The incremental recurrent costs arising
from the project in the case of Maharashtra, for example, are estimated to be less than two percent of
the total expenditures of the Department of Health. Third, the states with the largest expenditure
obligations arising from the project are also the relatively better off states - in Maharashtra, for
example, while the deficit on the overall revenue account for the State has been increasing, it is



36
generally around one percent of SDP. Overall public debt for Maharashtra, at 12 percent of SDP, is
lower-than other states; interest payment on debt is low; and SDP has been growing at an average
annual rate of 6 per cent in real terms since the 1980s, making it first among states in India.
4. The real test of financial sustainability lies not in the analysis of budgets per se, but in the extent of
political commitment to HIV/AIDS control. While there are risks, there is good reason to believe the
political commitment to the project is itself sustainable (see section F of the main text PAD, page 13).



37
Annex 7
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements
Table: A Procurement by Category and Procedure (In US$ Million Equivalent*)
ICB       NCB         Other      Not IDA    Total
financed.
WORKS
Civil Works                                           -          0.46       3.52       -           3.98
(0.37)     (2.82)                 (3.19)
GOODS
Fumiture and Supplies                                 -          6.33       2.99                   9.32
(5.07)     (2.40)                 (7.47)
Bloodbank &Other Equipment                            9.33       6.82       2.22       -           18.37
(7.40)    (5.46)      (1.77)                 (14.63)
TestKits&Supplies                                     18.95      8.08       4.04       -           31.07
(15.16)    (6.46)     (3.23)                 (24.85)
Vehicles                                              -          -           1.33      -           1.33
(1.06)                (1.06)
STI Medicines                                         -          2.13       8.16       -           10.29
(1.92)     (7.34)                 (9.26)
01 Medicines                                          9.02       6.67       2.34       -           18.03
(8.12)    (6.01)      (2.11)                 (16.24)
SERVICES
1. Project Preparation & Implementation
Training, Workshops and Fellowships                   -          -           18.03     -           18.03
(18.03)               (18.03)
Mass Media/lEC                                        -          -          25.12      -           25.12
(25.12)               (25.12)
2. Institutional Development
Large NGOs                                            -          -           12.24     -           12.24
(12.24)               (12.24)
Consultant & Professional Services                    -          -           11.03     -           11.03
(11.03)               (11.03)
M&E System                                            -          -          4.47       -           4.47
(4.47)                (4.47)
TRGs                                                                                   11.23       11.23
3. Operational and Other Research
Operations Research/Cause of Death, R&D and Other Studies -      -           8.40      -           8.40
(8.40)                (8.40)
4. Targeted Services for Priority Interventions       -          -           24.08     -           24.08
(24.08)               (24.08)
MISCELLANEOUS
Salaries of Additional Staff                          -          -           11.53     -           11.53
(5.66)                (5.66)
Operational Expenditures                              -          -           7.06      -           7.06
(3.25)                (3.25)
Blood/Equip Maintenance                               -          -           4.13      -           4.13
(1.82)                (1.82)
TOTAL                                                 37.30      30.49       150.69     11.23      229.8
(30.68)   (25.29)     (134.83)              (191.00)
Note:s Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA/IBRD; "Other" method of procurement includes Direct
Contracting, Comparison of price quotations (Shopping), Force Account, Consulting Services and through Beneficiaries.



38
A. ProcurementArrangements
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken in the project would be the responsibility of the
implementing agency, the National Aids Control Organization (NACO) of the Ministry of Health &
Family Welfare, Government of India and the State & Municipal Societies. NACO would be responsible
for procurement of HIV test kits, equipment and certain drugs as central components through the
procurement agent to be appointed under the project. AIDS Control Societies would be responsible for
procurement of civil works, drugs and NGO services for various activities.
1. Civil Works
There would be very minor civil works for establishing or extending existing infrastructure for blood
safety at the state and municipal level. The requirement of civil works would extend over five years.
Each civil work would be less than US$30,000 equivalent. The specifications for these would be made at
the state level, and procurement would be under force account, or direct contracting or three quotations,
or through community participation given the size of these scattered facilities.
2. Goods
(a) Furniture, equipment, laboratory and other supplies involve local purchase of desks, chairs and
other furniture, office supplies and related material to equip the State and Municipal Societies and NACO.
These would also include limited orders for computer equipment and laboratory support equipment.
Goods would be procured over five years. Most furniture and supply orders would be small - less than
US$30,000 per contract -- and would be procured under local shopping procedures by the Society. Larger
bloodbank equipment, needle shredders, needle crushers and HIV, HCV and Western Blot kits would be
in large orders above $300,000 and would be procured through ICB by NACO.
(b) Vehicles would be limited in number and phased across states. Smaller vehicle orders under
US$100,000 would be procured under national shopping or DSG&D rate contracts. The latter provide
cost savings comparable to that by NCB. Large purchases of vehicles above US$100,000 would be
procured centrally by NACO using ICB.
(c) STI medicines would be small in number, individually tailored to different users (such as NGOs or
Government STI clinics), and would be spread out over 30 or more states and over 5 years. The average
purchase would be less than $30,000 per year, and this would be done by NCB or national shopping
procedures with state rate contracts as one of three quotations. Drugs would be procured as per WHO
specifications and for procurement of drugs under NCB/ICB procedures suppliers would be required to
have Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and associated codes as per WHO certification scheme
according to resolution WHO 28-65B as specified in the PIP and procurement plan. States and NACO
would procure larger orders above $30,000 through NCB or ICB as the case may be.
(d) 01 medicines_would be tailored for use by states, who would have to follow revised NACO
guidelines on their use. These would be spread out over 30 or more states and over 5 years. Most
purchases would be above $30,000 and would be done through NCB, and also follow minimum criteria
for VVHO specifications, GMP and associated codes as per WHO certification scheme according to
resolution WHO 28-65B as specified in the PIP and procurement plan. Larger orders above $300,000
would be done through ICB for those states with pre-existing agency capacity to do ICB (i.e. those with
State Health Systems Projects), or by NACO for those states without such capacity. Tuberculosis drugs
would be provided first under agreed procedures by the National Tuberculosis Project (Credit No.2936).



39
3. Services
(a) Large service contracts (above US$200,000) would be for public relations (PR), mass media, IEC and
advertising, and monitoring and evaluations system (M&E) agencies and for larger umbrella NGOs to
train and provide oversight for targeted services for priority interventions (SPIs). These would be based
upon competitive (QCBS) selection procedure by NACO or the states and municipal corporations,
following project-specific guidelines and noted in the PIP. Consultant contracts for IEC, M&E and
Professional Services may be awarded to individual consultants also.
(b) Intermediate service contracts (between US$100,000 and US$200,000) would be for similar efforts as
in 3(a), and would also be procured by NACO or the states and municipal corporations using the same
procedures, but targeted to national firms on a competitive basis.
(c) Targeted Services for Priority Interventions (SPIs) would follow project-specific selection criteria
and would be procured mainly by local states and municipal corporations as noted in the national and
local PIPs. Key selection criteria include: (a) basic infrastructure in place; (b) stable organizational
structure; (c) established track record in community development and credibility with the community in
which the project is planned; and (d) adequate financial management capacities. The states and
Municipal Societies would procure these small services (maximum per contract of US$15,000 - $20,000)
as per the guidelines in the PIP and the revised guidelines established by NACO. Larger services (above
US$100,000) would follow the Bank's Consultant Guidelines as noted in 3(a) and 3(b) above.
(d) Most Operational Research, Policy Development Studies, Research and Development (R&D)
and Cause of Death and other Studies would be procured by NACO, states or municipal corporations
following project-specific guidelines. These would be based on from an expert-working group composed
of the NACO, State and related officials. The operational research cell of NACO would use request for
proposals for operational research. R&D would focus on specific capacity development for HIV
vaccines. Cause of death studies would be procured directly from the Registrar General of India, or from
existing academic institutions in that State, and would not exceed $100,000 per study or $4,000,000
overall. The research items would follow a list of agreed priority items, and would be evaluated by the
working group on an annual basis. Small professional service contracts, such as design of local
information systems would follow the Consultant Guidelines under QCBS.
(e) Mass Media/IEC or Publicity Services for mass media for appropriate target groups would be
procured by NACO and states. Individual publicity service contracts are estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 each. Local folk media and community awareness and related IEC activities would be
procured using sole-source, or using QCBS by State or Municipal Societies, and following selection
criteria described in the PIP. Direct contracting from the Ministry of Information radio and television
services would be permitted up to an aggregate of $2,000,000, using procedures followed in the Malaria
Control Project (No 2964-IN). Training, workshops and feliowships, including overseas study tours
would be undertaken in accordance with GOI procedures, and may include procurement, under sole-
source selection, of selected external training experts. Procurement would be against the costs for
meetings, training materials, per diems (TA/DA), expert services and related fees.
4. Miscellaneous
These involve operating expenses for all the components, including maintenance costs for civil works and
components, fuel costs for vehicles, salaries for incremental staff, procurement fees for public service
agencies, supervision travel and TA/DA and operational costs for NACO and societies, including small
supplies, recurrent costs for equipment, laboratory and other operations. These would be procured on the
basis of direct contracting, or three quotations, depending upon the situation.



40
Initial pilots for HIV vaccine development would be procured as operational research (see above). Larger
future investment, which may be justified with technological break-through, would be procured under
project-specific procedures satisfactory to the Association. Any such procurement would be consistent
with high international scientific standards, and procedures.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
IDA financed works and goods would be procured using Bank Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, of January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999. IDA financed services would be procured using Bank Guidelines - Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999.
All NCB contracts to be financed from the credit under the project would follow procedures satisfactory
to the IDA, which are:
(a)    The model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task Force [and as
amended from time to time], shall only be used for bidding.
(b)   Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
(c)    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders, state-
owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State, etc.
(d)    Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association, there shall be no negotiation of price
with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(e)    Except in cases of force majeur and/or situations beyond the control of the Project States,
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Bank (I) for the
first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (ii) for all subsequent requests for
extension irrespective of the period.
(f)    Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Bank/Association. The
system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be used.
(g)    Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB procedures.
Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National Shopping procedures. [For
International Shopping procedures, quotations should also be invited from one or more foreign
suppliers for comparison with DGS&D contracts.]
The Procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table 'A'.
For procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bid documents shall be used.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$30,000 equivalent will be carried out following
NCB procedures.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of US$30,000 or less will be procured
following procedures acceptable to the Association:
(a)  under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors;
(b)  by direct contracting;
(c)  unit / piece rate system to qualified contractors or registered NGOs or other beneficiary



41
associations; or
.(d) through Force Account, as a last resort.
* Contracts for the purchase of goods /equipment valued at more than US$300,000 equivalent each
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
* Contracts valued more than US$30,000 but less than US$300,000 may be awarded on the basis of
NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Items or groups of items valued US$30,000 equivalent or less
per contract may be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures. Other items or small
groups of items such as supply of furniture, equipment, medicines, materials and other supplies
valued at less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through direct contracting or
national shopping procedures.
Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$20,000 or less per contract for maintenance of
buildings and equipment may be awarded through:
(a) Director Contracting; or
(b) National Shopping; or
(c) Force Account.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
*  All contracts for goods / equipment except vehicles with an estimated value of more than
US$300,000 equivalent.
*  First ICB contract of vehicles irrespective of value and each contract of vehicles estimated to cost
more than US$300,000.
*  All contracts for works with an estimated value of more than US$300,000 equivalent.
*  The first NCB contracts each for goods and works regardless of the value.
e  Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or
more for individuals.



42
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure                       Contract Value              Procurement    Contracts Subject to
Category                           (Threshold)                Method          Prior/ Post Review
1. Civil Works
Civil Works         Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$30,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate not exceeding US$3,520,000 may be
executed by:
(I) direct contracting up to an aggregate  Direct        Post review only
not exceeding US$500,000; or             Contracting
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of    Post review only
quotations obtained from at least three qualified  three Bids
contractors eligible under the guidelines; or
(iii) unit/piece rate systems to qualified  Unit Rate     Post review only
contractors or registered NGOs or other  Contracts
beneficiary associations; or
(iv) by Force Account, as a last resort, up to an
aggregate not exceeding US$1,400,000 in a  Force Account   Post review only
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of   National  First civil works NCB
above US$30,000 per contract.            Competitive     contract from any one State
Bidding         (through NACO) estimated
to cost more than
US$30,000 but less than
US$300,000 and each
contract of works estimated
to cost more than
US$300,000 equivalent by
prior review in accordance
with paragraphs 2 & 3 of
Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines.
All others: by post review.
2. Goods
(a) Furniture,      US$30,000 or less per contract, up to an  National Shopping  Post review only
Laboratory, Blood   aggregate not exceeding US$19,000,000    Procedures
Bank & other        equivalent                               (includes DGS&D
Equipment, test kits,                                        Rate Contracts)
medicines & other
supplies.
More than US$30,000 but less than       National           First goods NCB contract
US$300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate    Competitive  from any one State
not exceeding US$30,030,000 equivalent  Bidding (NCB)      (through NACO) estimated
to cost above US$30,000
but below US$300,000
equivalent and each
contract of goods



43
Expenditure                      Contract Value               Procurement    Contracts Subject to
Category                          (Threshold)                 Method          Prior/ Post Review
Below US$300,000
equivalent and each
contract of goods
estimated to cost more
than US$300,000
equivalent by prior review
in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
All others: by post review.
Above $300,000 equivalent per          International       Contracts valued at more
Contract                               Competitive Bidding  than US$300,000
(ICB)              equivalent each by prior
review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.
Less than US$5,000 per contract        Direct Contracting or Post Review only.
Up to an aggregate not exceeding       National Shopping
US$750,000
(b) Vehicles        US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up National Shopping    Post review only
to an aggregate not exceeding US$1,330,000   Procedures (includes
equivalent                             DGS&D Rate
Contracts)
Above $100,000 equivalent per contract  ICB                First ICB contract
irrespective of value and
each contract estimated to
cost more than
US$300,000 equivalent, by
prior review in accordance
with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the
Guidelines.
3. Services
(a) Professional Service Above US$200,000 equivalent per contract   Quality and Cost Based Prior review of all
Contracts (including                                       Selection (QCBS)     consultant contracts shall
procurement agency),                                                            be governed by the
large NGO Contracts                                                             provisions of paragraphs
and Consultants.                                                               (I), (ii) and (iii) below:



44
Expenditure                        Contract Value                Procurement    Contracts Subject to
Category                            (Threshold)                 Method           Prior/ Post Review
(b) Professional     US$200,000 or less per contract, up to an  QCBS with Short   (I) With respect to each
Services Contracts,    aggregate not exceeding US$14,880,000  List (could comprise contract for the employment
Mass Media/IEC,      equivalent                               of Domestic Firms   of consulting firms estimated
M&E and Large NGO                                             only - if foreign  to cost the equivalent of
contracts                                                     consultants are not  US$200,000 or more,
likely to be       procedures set forth in
interested.)       paragraphs 1, 2 [other than
the third sub-paragraph of
paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
(ii) With respect to each
contract for consulting firms
estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 or
more, but less than the
equivalent of US$200,000
the procedure set forth in
paragraph 1, 2 [other than the
second sub-paragraph of
paragraph 2(a)] and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the
Consultants Guidelines shall
apply.
(c) Professional     US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract,  (I) QCBS with  (iii) With respect to each
Service Contracts,   up to an aggregate not exceeding        Short List (could   contract for the employment
Mass Media/IEC,      US$51,620,000 equivalent                comprise of         of individual consultants
M&E and Large NGO                                            domestic finms only  estimated to cost the
Contracts, Operational                                       if foreign          equivalent of US$50,000 or
Research, R & D and                                          consultants are not   more, the qualifications,
Cause of Death and                                           likely to be        experience, terms of
other Studies,                                              interested).         reference and terms of
Training, workshops                                                              employment of the
and fellowships.                                                                 consultants shall be
(ii) Selection in   furnished to the Association
accordance with para for its prior review and
3.14 of the Consultant approval
Guidelines, including. All other cases: Post Review.
Selection criteria for
operational research,
R&D and cause of
death studies shall
follow project-specific
guidelines agreed with
IDA and noted in the
PIP.
(iii) Single-source
Selection in
accordance with
paragraph 3.8 to 3.11
of the Consultant
Guidelines,



45
Expenditure                      Contract Value               Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Category                          (Threshold)                 Method            Prior/ Post Review
(d) Targeted Services   US$20,000 or less service, up to an  Selection in           Post review only.
for Priority         aggregate not exceeding US$28,870,000  accordance with
Interventions,       equivalent                             paragraph 3.19 of
Operational Research,                                       the Consultant
Cause of Death and                                          Guidelines,
other Studies                                               including single-
source and as per
project specific
guidelines agreed
with IDA and noted
in the PIP.
4. Miscellaneous       Incremental operating costs and
Incremental Operational  maintenance estimated to cost the
Costs and maintenance   equivalent of US$20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate not exceeding
US$4,130,000 may be executed by:
I) direct contracting up to an aggregate not   Direct contracting    Post review only.
exceeding US$1,000,000; or
ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of three   Post review only.
quotations obtained from at least three  bids
qualified contractors eligible under the
guidelines; or
iii) unit/piece rate systems to qualified  Unit Rate Contracts  Post review only.
contractors or registered NGOs or other
beneficiary associations; or
iv) Force Account, as a last resort, up to an   Force Account  Post review only.
aggregate not exceeding
US$200,000 in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
B. Disbursement and Financial Management
Disbursement: The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C. A Special Account would
be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India, and would be operated by the Department of Economic
Affairs (DEA) of GOI. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be US$14 million that
represent about 6 months of initial estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The Special Account
would be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
Current Financial Management System: The project is a follow-on project to the first HIV/AIDS
National AIDS Control Project which closed on March 31,1999. The implementing agency for both the
Projects is NACO in MOHFW. NACO would be supported in the execution of the project by
participating states and municipal corporations. NACO, which has considerable experience of running
the AIDS Control Program in India, has the following strengths: (1) a budgeting and accounting system
has been established and is operational; (ii) staff are trained to carry out basic accounting functions; and
(iii) NACO is supported by a full time Financial Management Consultant whose mandate is to
successfully institute the computerized financial management system in the project.



46
However, it must be emphasized that although NACO has experience in the project management, the
AIDS Control societies at state and municipal corporations who are going to be the implementing
agencies in the states in second phase of GOI's National AIDS Control Program are at an initial stage of
inception. Considerable effort is being made by NACO through workshops and training courses to build
capacity quickly in these implementing agencies on financial management.
There is scope for considerable improvement in the following aspects: (I) use of financial
reporting/financial statements as a project management tool.  There is need to analyze financial
information and actively use the information in decision-making; (ii) need for enhanced clarity and
consistency of activities and expenditures which are being charged as project expenditure; (iii) linking of
physical progress with financial progress; (iv) staffing and computer hardware requirements; and (v)
submission of audit reports in time.  NACO would develop and implement a comprehensive
computerized financial management system that would address all these issues in detail.
The project financial management system would, inter alia, include: (I) funds flow process; (ii) detailed
accounting system (including the Chart of Accounts; formats of books, vouchers, statements, etc.);
formats of financial reports; linkages between the Chart of Accounts and financial reports; inputs of
budget and other data; data capture, information flow and processing; (iii) internal control mechanisms;
(iv) financial and accounting policies and procedures; (v) budgeting and forecasting system; (vi) auditing
arrangements; and (vii) organization and staffing, including job responsibilities of key staff. The
Financial Management System would be supported by an operations manual that would serve as a
reference document for all project staff.
Budgeting and Flow of Funds: The funding to NACO would be through the MOHFW Budget with
project funds as a special allocation. Flow of funds from NACO to AIDS Control Societies is likely to be
on an at least an annual basis through banking channels. The initial allocation would be based on the cash
flow forecasts of Societies (which in turn would be based on their work programs and budgets).
Subsequent funding would be based on performance of key indicators and the projected funds
requirement of the AIDS Control Societies.
Accounting and Internal Controls: Books of accounts for the project at NACO and society level would
be maintained using double-entry bookkeeping principles. Standard books of accounts (cash and
bankbooks, journals, ledgers, etc.) would be maintained at the NACO and states using an integrated
computerized accounting system. A Chart of Accounts is being developed to enable data to be captured
and classified by budget heads, project components, expenditure categories (summary and detailed), and
disbursement categories. This would match closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of
funds indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project Cost Tables).
Transaction Information Flow and Accounting: NACO and the AIDS Control Societies would
generate and maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts and expenditures made at NACO
and Societies, respectively. However, accounting and record-keeping for the districts would need to be
done at the Society level. AIDS Control Societies would release money to lower-level implementers,
who would send the expenditure statement along with all the supporting documents to the AIDS Control
Societies on a periodic basis. The accounting for NGOs would be done similarly. The statement of
account and the audit certificates received from NGOs would be accounted for at the state and municipal
corporation level. Consolidation of project accounts would be done at the NACO level by consolidation
of accounts of NACO and the Societies using the computerized system. Data transfer would be handled
through: (I) an integrated computer network; or (ii) periodic data transfer through electronic mail or
floppy diskettes.
Internal Controls: Internal control mechanisms would include the following: (1) the establishment of



47
appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and
targets; (2) development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies
which would govern financial management and accounting for the project. These policies and procedures
would include identification of expenditures which can be charged to the project, and the categories under
which the expenditures would be charged; the policies and procedures for transfer of funds and
accounting of expenditures, etc; and (3) at the transaction level, policies, procedures and systems are
being developed for ensuring standard controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate
documentation, levels of authorization, bifurcation of duties, reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
Staffing: NACO has developed an organizational structure for the finance and accounting department for
NACO and the societies as a part of the operations manual. Terms of references and qualification
requirements for each position have also been drawn up. The finance and accounting departmnent at
NACO would be headed by Director (Finance), who would be an accounting professional with about 8-10
years experience. He would report to the Project Director, NACO. His team would include two Assistant
Directors and a Systems Analyst. The Finance and Accounting Department at large and medium sized
states and municipal corporations would be headed by a Financial Controller who would be a senior
officer on deputation from the State Government. His team would include a Finance officer who would
be an accounting professional with 4/5 years experience. Both NACO and local societies would have an
appropriate number of accountants/account clerks to carry out the various routine activities under the
direction of the key professional staff indicated above. To promote efficiency and maintain a lean
organization, all routine activities relating to generation of books of accounts, compilation, preparation of
financial reports, etc., would be handled through the computerized financial management system to the
maximum extent possible.
Financial Reporting: Project Financial Statements and Financial Management Reports would be
generated from the project accounting system. NACO would generate quarterly financial management
reports fronm the integrated computerized financial management system for the whole project. The states
would also have the capability of generating these reports on a quarterly basis for their own monitoring
needs. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than transactional details).
The reports would include: (I) a comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major
variances, including in sources and application of funds (by components and summarized expenditure
categories), and in key physical parameters; and (ii) forecasts for the next two quarters. These reports and
the Withdrawal Application (which would be based on the financial forecasts and actual expenditures
classified by disbursement category) would also be used by the Bank for quarterly disbursements in
accordance with the disbursement procedures under LACI.
Auditing Arrangements: NACO Accounts would be audited by the Controller and Auditor General of
India (CAG). The local societies would be audited by Chartered Accountant firms and the audit would be
conducted on a quarterly basis. An audited consolidated annual project financial statement would be
submitted by NACO within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year (as required under the Bank's
Operational Policies). The Terns of Reference for the firms of Chartered Accountants would include a
quarterly audit. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early completion of the
annual audit. Since the books of accounts and all supporting documentation would be maintained at the
NACO and the local societies, it is likely that the major work in the audit process would be carried out at
these levels. The auditors would carry out such tests and controls as deemed necessary by them. This
may include visits to the districts to verify the bank accounts, carry out physical inspection, etc. In
accordance with the World Bank's Operational Policies, the Terms of Reference and qualifications of the
firm of Chartered Accountants should be reviewed by the World Bank. The Chartered Accountants
would be appointed shortly after the start of the project. Under the previous project there were lapses on
the part of NACO on timely submission of audit reports to the Bank which was a cause for suspension of
SOE disbursements. The creation of Societies in the states as implementing agencies would alleviate the



48
problem to a significant extent as the Society accounts would be audited by Chartered Accountancy firms
which should facilitate timely submission of audit reports from Societies. CAG would audit NACO, and
a panel of Chartered Accountancy firms approved by CAG would audit AIDS Control Societies.
Time Table for implementation: The proposed computerized FMS is being developed for NACO with
the help of consultants specifically appointed for the purpose of designing, developing and instituting the
computerized FMS in the project. The system being developed would be compatible with International
Accounting Standards and would facilitate a double entry cash system of accounting. The successful
implementation of FMS in the project would entail certain key activities: (a) development of a software
for FMS implementation including preparation of an operations manual; (b) procurement of necessary
hardware; (c) staffing of key positions; and (d) training of staff in the FMS operation. The initial key
activities of development of software including the operations manual and procurement of hardware are
expected to be completed by July 31, 1999. The key staffing is expected to be completed by August 31,
1999, which would be followed up with an intensive on the job training for the staff on FMS. The FMS is
expected to be operational by March 31, 2000 in all states.



49
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category            Amount in        IDA Financing Percentage
US$
Million
1. Civil Works                                3.19                     80%
2A. Furniture, Blood Bank & Other Equipment,  48.01   100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Supplies                                              local expenditures (ex-factory cost); 80% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Includes:
US$M 7.47 Furniture and Supplies
US$M 14.63 Bloodbank & Other Equipment
US$M 1.06 Vehicles
US$M 24.85 Test Kits & Supplies
2B. STI & 01 Medicines
Includes:                                      25.5                    90%
US$M9.26 STIMedicines
US$M 16.24 OIMedicines
3. Training, Workshops, Studies, Consultants,  103.37                  100%
Professional Services, Operational Research and
Other
Includes:
US$M 18.03 Training, Workshops & Fellowships
US$M 25.12 Mass Media/IEC
US$M 12.24 Large NGOs
US$M 11.03 Consultant & Professional Services
US$M 4.47 M&E System
US$M 8.40 Operations Research/Cause of
Death, R&D and Policy Studies
US$M 24.08 Targeted Services-Priority
Interventions
4. Incremental Operating and Maintenance Costs    10.73   70% of local expenditures incurred until
Includes:                                              July 31, 2000; 60% of expenditures
US$M 5.66 Salaries of Incremental Staff               incurred from August 1, 2000 until July 31,
US$M 3.25 Operational Expenses                        2001; 50% of expenditures incurred from
US$M 1.82 Equipment & Building Maintenance            August 1, 2001 until July 31, 2003; and
25% of expenditures incurred thereafter.
TOTAL             191.0
Note Amounts are inclusive of contingencies



50
Annex 8
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (JS$000)                      Planned               Actual
Pre-appraisal                                    359.5                344.7
Appraisal                                         75.2                 55.6
Negotiations                                      12.3                 12.3
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         9                    10
First Bank mission (identification)             11/1997              11/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     11/1998             12/05/1998
Negotiations                                   02/10/1999           05/07/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  6/30/1999            7/31/1999
Prepared by: NACO, states, municipal corporations, SASHP
Preparation assistance:  UNAIDS contributed a trust fund to GOI for overall program
strengthening. CIDA financed $160,000 trust fund for consultants.
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Prabhat Jha (Task Leader), Anuschka Alvarez,
Ian Anderson, Ramendra Basu, Mam Chand, Kathleen Finn, Salim Habayeb, Hiroko Imamura,
Dean Jamison, Laura Kiang, Blanshard Marke, Julie Mittnan, Jane Mukira, Rajat Narula, Tawhid
Nawaz, Son Nguyen, Kent Ranson, Shreelata Rao-Seshadri, Gertrude Stubblefield, Maj-Lis Voss
and Ayda Yurekli.
The Sector Manager for Health, Population and Nutrition Unit in the South Asia Region is
Richard Skolnik.
Peer Reviewers were Martha Ainsworth, Tim Dondero, Maureen Lewis and Mead Over.
Olavi Elo, Gordon Alexander, Julia Cleves, Rob Hecht, Swarup Sarkar and Jim Sheery provided
input from UNAIDS. Bob Fryatt and Bob Grose provided inputs from DFID. Purvi Bhatt, Bill
Goldman, Rekha Masilamani, John Rogosh and K. Sudhakar provided input from USAID.
Sumita Banarjee, Stephen Gibbons and Sarada Leclerc provided input from CIDA. Olavi Elo,
Tore Godal, David Heymann, Thierry Mertens, N. K. Shah, and T. Walia provided input from
WHO.



51
Annex 9
Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan, and State and Municipal State Implementation Plans from
Ahmedabad, Andhra Pradesh, Chennai, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharastra, Manipur,
Mumbai, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
IDA Second AIDS/HIV Project. Project Information Document, November 1997
IDA Second HIV/AIDS Control Project. Identification Mission. Aide-Memoire, December 5,
1997
IDA Second AIDS/JIIV Project. Project Concept Document, January 12, 1998
IDA Second HIV/AIDS Control Project. Back-To-Office Report, March 12, 1998
IDA Identification/Preparation Mission. Second AIDS/HIV Project. Aide-Memoire, June 1998
IDA Second HIV/AIDS Control Project. Back-To-Office Report, June 25, 1998
IDA Second HIV/AIDS Control Project. Back-To-Office Report, August 17, 1998
IDA Technical Discussions. Aide-Memoire, October 26, 1998
IDA Preparation/Appraisal Mission. Second AIDS/HIV Project. Aide-Memoire, December 1998.
IDA Appraisal Mission: Second AIDS/HIV Project. Aide-Memoire, December 22, 1998.
Technical Assessment: P. Jha, F. Plummer, J. Blanchard and S. Moses.
C. Other
National AIDS Control Organization, MOHFW, December 3, 1998. Environmental Assessment
Plan.
RITES, December 3, 1998. Procurement Plan of Goods, Equipment, Civil Works and
Consultancy Services.
National AIDS Control Organization, MOBFW. Technical Annexure.
National AIDS Control Organization, MOHFW. Guidelines for the Management of
Opportunistic Infections in HIV/AIDS.
National AIDS Control Organization, MOHFW, November 27-28, 1997. National Workshop on
Prevention and Control of AIDS
National AIDS Control Organization, MOIIFW. Country Scenario 1997-98.
National AIDS Control Organization, MOHFW. December 1996. Country Scenario and Update.



52
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
Operations Portfolio
(As of March 31,1999)
Difference Between Expected
and Actual
Original Amount in USS             Disbursements a/               Last PSR
Millions                                              Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID   Fiscal          Purpose                                                      Using      Using
Year                                  IBKD      IDA    Cancel. Undiab   Original   Formal.   Develop.   Implem.
Eati-     Revised    Objec-   Progress
mates       Est.       Tives
Number of Closed Projects: 331
Active Projects
IN-PE-9869    1989  NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO            485.00       0.00    0.00      111.65     111.63      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9982    1990  NOR REG TRANSMISSION           485.00       0.00    0.00      178.66     178.65      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9988    1991   TECH EDUCATION II               0.00     307.10   51.37      75.02      133.42     55.61      S         S
IN-PE-9877    1991  DAN SAFETY                      23.00     130.00   60.03       25.81      84.17     -4.50      S         S
IN-PE-10390   1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY             0.00     124.00   16.18      34.18       49.91     33.23      S         S
IN-PE-9963    1992  POPUIATION VIII                  0.00      79.00    0.00       55.86      51.17      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9946    1992  NATIONAL HIGHWAYS II           153.00     153.00    0.00      154.13      91.19      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9921    1992  SHRIMP & FISH CULTURE            0.00      85.00   48.51       16.05      63.78     15.17      U         S
IN-PE-10424   1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMIN.             0.00      85.00    9.07       24.71      32.15       4.44     S         HS
IN-PE-10418   1993  KARNATAKA WS & ENV/SAN           0.00      92.00    0.00       31.64      29.26       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10416   1993   PGC POWER SYSTEM              350.00       0.00    0.00      117.11     107.51      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10410   1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES             75.00     115.00    0.00       70.78      97.72      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10408   1993  BIHAR PLATEAU                    0.00     117.00    0.00       51.37      57.45       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10407   1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                  0.00     106.00    0.00       22.98      23.17      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9977    1993  ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)             0.00     194.00    0.00      118.38      83.30     93.67      U         U
IN-PE-9961    1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLAM            0.00      54.70    0.00       12.94       7.24      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-9959    1993  RUBBER                           0.00      92.00   36.58       23.19      55.39     11.79      S         S
IN-PE-9955    1993  UTTAR PRADESH BASIC ED           0.00     165.00    0.00       21.79      -9.14   -142.42      S         S
IN-PE-10457   1994   POPULATION IX                   0.00      88.60    0.00       50.16      17.61      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10455   1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                0.00     117.80    0.00       81.38      35.60      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-10449   1994  ANDHRA PRADESH FOREST.           0.00      77.40    0.00       25.54      12.19       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10448   1994   FORESTRY RESEARCH ED            0.00      47.00    0.00       22.43      38.17       4.22     S         S
IN-PE-9964    1994  WATER RFS CONS.HARYANA           0.00     258.00    0.00      147.93      78.87       0.0C     U         U
IN-PE-9870    1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT             94.00       0.00    0.00       73.23      67.24       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10563   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV           700.00       0.00  200.0       266.97    -233.03       0.00     S         S
0
IN-PE-10522   1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRASTR.            0.00     126.00    0.00       97.64      39.14       0.00     U         U
IN-PE-10506   1995  MP FORESTRY                      0.00      58.00    0.00       19.06       7.61       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-10503   1995  AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT             0.00      59.50    0.00       33.64      26.20       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-10489   1995  AP 1ST REF. HEALTH SYS           0.00     133.00    0.00       66.14       9.05       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10476   1995  TAMIL NADU WRCP                  0.00     282.90    0.00      211.95     105.73       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-10464   1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED              0.00     260.30    0.00      127.92      33.10       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-10463   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREVEN         143.00      25.00    0.00      144.82      80.56       C.00     S         S
IN-PE-_0461   1995  MADRAS WATER SUP II            275.80       0.00  189.3        56.59     156.33       5.51     S          S
0
IN-PE-43310   1996  COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.             0.00      63.00    0.00       45.55      14.17       0.00     U         U
IN-PE-39935   1996   ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE           200.00       5.00    0.00      179.22      98.09       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-35825   1996  STATE HEALTH SYS II              0.00     350.00    0.00      263.11      89.05       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-35821   1996  DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2             0.00     425.20    0.00      307.88       5.54       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-35170   1996  ORISSA POWER SECTOR            350.00       0.00    0.00      326.13      83.63       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10529   1996  ORISSA WRCP                      0.00     290.90    0.00      161.11      -2.82       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10485   1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                0.00     142.00    0.00       94.62      45.74       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-10484   1996  UP RURAL WATER                  59.60       0.00    0.00       50.24       7.83       0.00     HS        HS
IN-PE-10480   1996  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL              167.00      25.00    0.00      119.89      66.34       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-49301   1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE             50.00     100.00    0.00      119.95      36.97       0.00     U         U
IN-PE-45600   1997  TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV            51.50       0.00    0.00       33.82      15.32       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-44449   1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                0.00      19.50    0.00       18.32       7.34       0.00     U         U
IN-PE-43728   1997   ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA            0.00      50.00    0.00       43.30       9.45       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-36062   1997   ECODEVELOPMENT                  0.00      28.00    0.00       22.54       2.86       0.00     U         U
IN-PE-35158   1997  AP IRRIGATION III              175.00     150.00    0.00      254.04      22.78       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-10531   1997  REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1             0.00     248.30    0.00      233.16      48.36       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-10511   1997  MALARIA CONTROL                  0.00     164.80    0.00      152.45      20.61       0.00     5          U
IN-PE-10473   1997  TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL             0.00     142.40    0.00      128.63      46.59       0.00     S         U
IN-PE-9995    1997  STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)           350.00       0.00    0.00      327.32      27.32       0.00     S          S
IN-PE-50638   1998  UP BASIC ED II                   0.00      59.40    0.00       31.35      -6.98       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-49477   1998  KERALA FORESTRY                  0.00      39.00    0.00       35.25      -2.09       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-49385   1998  AP ECON RESTRUCTURING          301.30     241.90    0.00      483.35     -61.49       0.00
IN-PE-38021   1998  DPEP III (BIHAR)                 0.00     152.00    0.00      139.31      16.56       0.00     S          S



53
Difference Between Expected
and Actual
Original Amount in US$             Disbursements a/               Last PSR
Millions                                              Supervision Rating
b/
Project ID   Fiscal          Purpose                                                      Using      Using
Year                                  IBRD      IDA    Cancel. Undisb   Original   Formal.   Develop.   Implem.
Esti-     Revised    Objec-    Progress
mates       Est.      Tives
IN-PE-35827   1998  WOMEN & CHILD DEVLP.             0.00     300.00    0.00      301.87       0.00      0.00
IN-PE-35824   1998  UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT             79.90      50.00    0.00      125.09      10.92       0.00
IN-PE-35169   1998  U.P. FORESTRY                    0.00      52.94    0.00       45.48       1.90       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-35160   1998  HARYANA POWER APL-I             60.00       0.00    0.00       41.33       9.32       0.00     S         HS
IN-PE-10561   1998  NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY             96.80     100.00    0.00      191.07       9.16       0.00
IN-PE-10496   1998  ORISSA HEALTH SYS                0.00      76.40    0.00       73.56       -.03       0.00     S         S
IN-PE-9979    1998  COAL SECTOR REHAB              530.00       2.00   15.00      472.13      48.88      0.00      S         S
IN-PE-50651   1999  MAHARASH HEALTH SYS              0.00     134.00    0.00      129.77      -3.09       0.00
IN-PE-50646   1999  UP SODIC LANDS II                0.00     194.10    0.00      192.25       4.94      0.00
IN-PE-49537   1999  AP POWER APL I                 210.00       0.00    0.00      199.83     -10.17      0.00
Total                                             5,464.9    7,038.1  626.0    7,914.6    2,405.3         76.7
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,734.88          33,285.32          37,020.20
Of which has been repaid:               178.66           10,509.62          10,688.28
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             11,698.29          22,105.50          33,803.79
Amount sold                     :                0.00             133.77              133.77
Of which repaid              :                0.00             133.77             133.77
Total Undisbursed               :           7,914.57               59.71           7,974.28
a. Estimated disbursements to date as projected at appraisal, or if disbursement estimate has
been formally revised, then revised disbursement estimate, minus actual disbursements to
date.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was
introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating
Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



54
India
STATEM1ENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(In US$ millions, as of February 28, 1999)
Commiitted                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company        Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90      MUSCO                0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08     0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00     2.29     0.00    0.00
1981               Nagarijuna Steel     0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07     0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode        0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.55     0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92   TISCO                3.28   15.37    0.00    0.00    3.28    15.37     0.00    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                   .33    6.49    0.00    1.33     .33     6.49     0.00    1.33
1984/90/94         India Lease          .66      .86    0.00    0.00     .66      .86     0.00    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge        12.68     .68    0.00    0.00   12.68      .68     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills       .48    0.00    0.00    0.00      .48     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-CECL             .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear       .19    0.00    0.00    0.00     .19     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG               .37    0.00    0.00    0.00     .37     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN               .03    0.00    0.00    0.00     .03     0.00     0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80     0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95      India Equipment       .38     .77    0.00     .93     .38      .77     0.00     .93
1987               Hindustan           4.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.03      0.00     0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches         .68    1.03    0.00    0.00     .68     1.03     0.00    0.00
1988/90/92         Tata Telecom         0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00      .10     0.00    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel            0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.40     0.00    0.00
1989               AEC                 10.53    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.53     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                 0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00      .63     0.00    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric       27.22    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.22     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State        4.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.46     0.00     0.00    0.00
1989/95            JSB India            0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.21     0.00    0.00
1990               HOEL                 0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00      .28     0.00    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II   0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00        1.41     0.00    0.00
1990/92            CESC                41.59    0.00    0.00   56.95   41.59     0.00     0.00   56.95
1990/93/94/98      IL & FS             18.75    6.23    1.81    6.00   18.75     6.23     1.81    6.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL           0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30     0.00    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine      0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.88     0.00    0.00
1991               BSES                17.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.50     0.00     0.00    0.00
1991/93            Triveni              0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.11     0.00    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.35     0.00    0.00
1992               Indus VC Mgt Co      0.00     .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01     0.00    0.00
1992               Indus VCF            0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.00     0.00    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund       0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00      .64     0.00    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings         2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86     0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills         0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10     0.00    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries    78.31    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.45     5.77     0.00    0.00
1992/95            IL&FS Venture        0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.05     0.00    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO            6.31     .50    0.00    0.00    2.31      .50     0.00    0.00
1993/94/96         IndoRama            19.68   11.98    0.00    7.87   19.68    11.98     0.00    7.87
1993/97            20TH Century        13.31     .80    0.00     .89   13.31      .80     0.00     .89
1994               Centurion Growth     0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.39     0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule            13.42    4.58    0.00   21.09   13.42     4.58     0.00   21.09
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt     0.00     .32    0.00    0.00    0.00      .32     0.00    0.00
1994               DLF Cement           8.80    4.94    0.00   12.75    8.80     4.94     0.00   12.75
1994               Gujarat Ambuja       0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00     8.23     0.00    0.00



55
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company        Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               Taurus Starshare    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17     0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                28.33    7.45    0.00   33.98   28.33    7.45     0.00   33.98
1994/98            Global Trust        5.00    3.19    5.00    0.00    5.00    3.19     5.00    0.00
1995               Centurion Bank      0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87     0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK           18.18    0.00    0.00    0.00   18.18    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital         10.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    4.39     0.00    0.00
1995               Prism Cement       15.00    5.02    0.00   12.00   15.00    5.02     0.00   12.00
1995               Rain Calcining     19.25    5.47    0.00    0.00   19.25    5.46     0.00    0.00
1995               Sara Fund           0.00    6.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60     0.00    0.00
1995/98            RPG                 0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11,25    0.00    0.00
Communications
1996               India Direct Fnd    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.51     0.00    0.00
1996               Indus II            0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00     0.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996/99            Moser Baer          4.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    4.00    2.14     0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50     0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT               20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital     7.00    .84    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                0.00    .03    0.00    0.00    0.00     .03      0.00    0.00
1997               Owens Corning      25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL                0.00    .07    0.00    0.00    0.00     .07      0.00    0.00
1997               SREI               15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    3.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India    0.00    .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01      0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                 0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     .88     0.00    0.00
1998               IDFC                0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46    0.00    0.00
1998               TCW/JCICI           0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.20     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          502.62  226.29    6.81  238.79  429.76   205.40    6.81  153.79
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                 IVCAAF            0.00    5.74   0.00    0.00
1999                 SARSHATALI   30.00    5.00   0.00        0.00
COAL
Total Pending Commitment:    30.00   10.74   0.00   0.00



56
Annex 11
India at a glance                                                                 4127199
POVERTYandt SOCIAL                                              South       Low.                                      -
India      Asia  Income        Development dlamond'
1991
Population. rnidyear (,tilisj                          962.4     1,281      2,036                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                      370        380       360
GNP (Atlas rnethod, US$Milo tns)                       357.4       493       712
Average annuai growth, 19S248
Population (fX)                                          1.7        1.8       220
Labor arce (%)                                           2.0       2.3        24      GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recntestimate Iatestyesravalable. 199298)                                        capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% otpopulation beow rnats poverty tIne)         3S
tJrban populatIon (% of toiat populbtion)                27         27        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         S3         62        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000/ve bhths)                    63         77        82
Child malnutrition (% of children under 6)              68          63                           Access to safe water
Access to safe wter (% ofpoputation)                     81         81        69
Illiteracy (5A of populaton age 15.)                     48         49        46
Grossprimaryenroltment  (5ofschook*epoptdatin)          101        100        93       -     India        Low-incomegroup
Mate                                                  110        t09       100
Female                                                 90         90        82
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONC-TERM TRENDS
1977     1997       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS bdios)                              102.7    247.8      397,1      420.8
Gross domestc investment/GOP                  20A       22.6      23.1       23S4                      Tade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              6.6       5.5       10.5      10S.
Gross domestlcsavings/GDP                     21.1      20.1      19,6       t9.8                        T
Grmss national savingsKGOP                              20Q5      21.8       21                          T
Cunentaccountbalance/GDP                        1'8     -2,4       -1.3      -1.A      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          0.3       0.7        1.0       0.9      Savings                      Investment
Totat debt/GOP                                 14.1     19.4       23.5      22A       Svn
Total debt servicetexports                    15.3      32.0      23.1       19.4
Present value of debttGDP                        -         -       17.8
Present value of debt/exporlts                                   135.4
Indebtedness
t9747  19884"8       1997       199    199943
(average anntalgiowtr)
GDP                                   4A4      5.7       7.3       650        55S             India        Low-incomegroup
GNP per capita                        2.1      3,8       6.8        3.3       4.0               d
Exports of goods and servies          3.4     12.0       8.4      11,4        7.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (56)
(56 of GDP)
Agriculture                                   38.2      31.4       29.3      27.5     40 -
Industry                                      23.0      26.2      26.1       26.1
Manufacturing                                15.5     16.1       16.8      16.8
Services                                      38.9      42.3      44.7       46.4 o
o   93   94   ~~95   96   97   S3
Pnvate consumption                            69.3      682       70.1       69.1    -2
General govemment consumption                  9.6      11.7       10.2      11.1                     GDI    -      DP
Imports of goods and services                  5.9       8.1       14.0      14.1
(average annual growth)                    197747  1988-98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                     2.6      3.7        9.4      -1.0    40
Industry                                      562        6.6        6.0       5 9
Manufacturing                                 5.5      7.1        7.7       668    20
Services                                        5.5      7.2        8.0       8.2
Private consumption                            4.8       5.0       10.2      -01        .                 95   95   97   93
General govemment consumption                  6.9       6.6       11.3      19 4           s                         9
Gross domestic investment                      4.2       6.4       -1.3       7 7     20
Imports of goods and services                  8.7       8.5        9.7       365                   Exports   -0- Imports
Gross nabonal product                           4.3      5.7        7.5       5.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared vith its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



57
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987      1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                20
(% change)                                                                       T
Consumer prices                              ..    6.4       10.0      6.9    15
Implicit GDP deflator                       5.9     6.5       7.9      5.6      0
Govemment finance                                                                t
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             0
Current revenue                              ..   23.3       21.8     22.0            93   94   95   96   97   96
Current budget balance                       ..     1.5       4.6       0.0                  GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..  -12.3       -9.9      4.9
TRADE
1977    1987      1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..  10,420    34,133   34,849     6mO
Tea                                        ..    451        292      410
Iron                                       ..    428        481      475      *OD
Manufactures                               ..  6,458    25,490   26,022    4
Total imports (cif)                          ..  17,740    48,948   51,126
Food                                       ..  1,068       1,536    1,687    2,00      Id
Fuel and energy                            ..  2,187       9,626    7,624
Capital goods                              ..  5,074       8,413    7,140        o
92  93  94  96  96  9769
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      89        90       86
Import price index (1995=100)                ..      77       101      104               a Exports    *Imp"ots
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                       ..    115         89       82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977    1987      1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                ..  13,637    41,732   44,102     0
Imports of goods and services                ..  19,962    55,696   59,236          m_
Resource balance                             ..  4,325   -13,964  -15,134
Net income                                   ..  -2,045    -3,568   -2,507
Net current transfers                        ..  2,327  12,367  11,830  I1 1 1 1 1 1
Current account balance                      ..  4,043    -5,165   -5,811
Financing items (net)                        ..  6,114    10,392    9,407
Changes in net reserves                      ..    -72    -5,227   -3,596    -2
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       -.  7,200    26,718   29,651
Conversion rate (DEC, locaelUSS)                    12.8     35.5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987      1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     14,471   48,124    93,435   94,404
IBRD                                     456    3,475     8,768    8,138
IDA                                     3,333   10,529    17,616   17,912                 G:5,046  A:8,138
Total debt service                        1,178   5,273    12,058   10,586
IBRD                                      88      469     1,514    1,482                                 B: 17,912
IDA                                       30      152       365      381
Composition of net resource flows                                                F: 36,574                  C: er4
Official grants                          377      403       410      351          
Official creditors                      1,058    1,404      184      45                                  D: 3,341
Private creditors                        -14    2,793      -147    2,520
Foreign direct investment                  0      208     2,696    3,197                            E 22729
Portfolio equity                           0        0     3,142    1,796
Worid Bank program
Commitments                              315    1,790     1,532    1,755     A- IBRD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                            610    1,297     1,592    1,373      B- IDA    D-Other multlateral  F-FPrvate
Principal repayments                      88      235     1,074    1,144      C-iMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                 544    1,062       518      229
Interest payments                         52      386       804      719
Net transfers                            492      676      -287     -490
Development Economics                                                                                          4/27/99



