                                                   Document of
                                              The World Bank


                                        FOR OFFICE USE ONLY


                                                                                   Report No: ICR-000022




                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                                 ( IDA-32420 )

                                                      ON A

                                      CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                                           SDR 140.82 MILLION

                                  (US$ MILLION 193.7 EQUIVALENT)

                                                        TO

                                     THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                                      for the

                       SECOND NATIONAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT




                                             September 29, 2006




         Human Development Unit
         South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          ( Exchange Rate Effective 01/01/2006 )
                               Currency Unit = Rupee
                                  Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.02
                                   US$ 1.00 = Rupee 45.12


                                       Fiscal Year
                                    1 April - 31 March




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA   Analytical and Advisory Work
APAC  AIDS Prevention and Control Project
ART   Anti-retroviral Therapy
BCC   Behavior Change Communication
BMGF  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
BSS   Behavior Sentinel Surveillance
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CBO   Community Based Organization
CHC   Community Health Center
CIDA  Canadian International Development Agency
CMIS  Computerized Management Information System
DO    Development Objective
DP    Donor Partner
DfID  Department for International Development
GFATM Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
GOI   Government of India
HCWMP Health Care Waste Management Plan
ICHAP India Canada HIV and AIDS Project
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Association
IDU   Injecting Drug User
IEC   Information, Education and Communication
INP+  Indian Network of Positive People
ISR   Implementation Status Report
KPI   Key Performance Indicators
MSM   Men Who Have Sex With Men
MSW   Male Sex Worker
MTR   Mid-Term Review
NACO  National AIDS Control Organization
NACP  National AIDS Control Program
NGO   Non Government Organization
OI    Opportunistic Infection
OPD   Out Patient Department

PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PD       Project Director
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PLHA     People Living with HIV and AIDS
PPTCT    Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission
PSR      Project Status Report
QA       Quality Assurance
RCH      Reproductive and Child Health
RTI      Reproductive Tract Infection
SC       Scheduled Castes
ST       Scheduled Tribes
STI      Sexually Transmitted Infection
SW       Sex Worker
TI       Targeted Intervention
TLO      Technical Liaison Officer
TRG      Technical Resource Group
TTL      Task Team Leader
UNAIDS Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VCTC     Voluntary Counseling and Testing Center
WHO      World Health Organization




Vice President:              Praful C. Patel
Country Director:            Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:              Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:         Cornelis P. Kostermans

                                                               India
                            Second National HIV/AIDS Control Project

                                                        CONTENTS


1. Basic Information ...........................................................................................................................1
2. Key Dates .......................................................................................................................................1
3. Ratings Summary ...........................................................................................................................1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................................2
5. Bank Staff.......................................................................................................................................2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................................................................2
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..................................................................5
8. Assessment of Outcomes..............................................................................................................10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................................16
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................................17
11. Lessons Learned .........................................................................................................................21
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.............................22
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis ............................................................................................24
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)........................................................................................................27
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing..............................................................................................28
Annex 4. Outputs by Component .....................................................................................................30
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)......................38
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.................................40
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................43
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)..................................................................................44
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)..........................................................45
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.......................................46
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders.........................................47
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents........................................................................................48
Annex 13: Borrower's ICR...............................................................................................................49

1. Basic Information
                                                                  Second National HIV/AIDS
Country:             India                  Project Name:
                                                                  Control Project
Project ID:          P045051                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-32420
ICR Date:            09/29/2006             ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument: SIL                     Borrower:             Government of India (GOI)
Original Total
                     XDR 140.8M             Disbursed Amount:     XDR 140.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agency: National AIDS Control Organization


2. Key Dates

      Process              Date             Process         Original Date      Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:     01/13/1998        Effectiveness:      11/09/1999          11/09/1999
Appraisal:          12/05/1998        Restructuring(s):
Approval:           06/15/1999        Mid-term Review:                        06/05/2003
                                      Closing:            07/31/2004          03/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance      Indicators        QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                 No             Quality at Entry (QEA):           None
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                 No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                 Satisfactory
status:




                                               1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                              2                   2
Sub-national government administration                                         2                   2
Health                                                                       96                   96
                                                               Original Priority    Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement                              Secondary           Secondary
Gender                                                          Secondary           Secondary
Population and reproductive health                              Primary             Primary
HIV/AIDS                                                        Primary             Primary


5. Bank Staff
                      Positions                                 At ICR               At Approval
Vice President:                                       Praful C. Patel             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:                                     Michael F. Carter           Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager:                                       Anabela Abreu               Richard L. Skolnik
Project Team Leader:                                  Cornelis P. Kostermans      Prabhat K. Jha
ICR Team Leader:                                      Mariam Claeson
ICR Primary Author:                                   Shreelata Rao-Seshadri



6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)


6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance)


The first case of HIV in India was identified in 1986 in Chennai and by 1998, NACO estimated that
India had about four million (<1%) HIV infected people. Analysis at the time indicated that, without
immediate intervention, HIV infection could grow to at least 5% of the adult population - more than 37
million people - by 2005. It predicted a narrow time period in which to prevent the HIV epidemic from
becoming generalized, after which it would be much more difficult and costly to control. HIV infection
was already spreading rapidly among high risk groups, and in the general community in some states.


The GOI had launched the first National AIDS Control Project (NACP 1) in 1992, financed by an IDA
Credit of US$84 million equivalent (Credit 2350-IN) and established the National AIDS Control
Organization (NACO) as the autonomous nodal agency within the central Ministry of Health and Family
Welfare (MOHFW), tasked with implementing HIV prevention and control activities. Campaigns to
raise awareness of HIV and AIDS were launched, targeted interventions were piloted and blood banks
were re-vamped across the country. To strengthen implementation at the state level, the management of



                                                   2

HIV and AIDS control programs were decentralized to State AIDS Control Cells. These cells within
Ministries of Health, encountered serious funding bottlenecks. Based on the Tamil Nadu model, quasi-
government "societies" headed by IAS officers were instead established that could more easily receive
and disburse funds without cumbersome government processes. In 1998, in response to the epidemic
growth, there was growing government commitment to proactively address the issue. In his address to
Parliamentarians in December 1998, the then Prime Minister, Mr. A. B. Vajpayee, called HIV and AIDS
"India's most important public health problem". The GOI engaged public, private and voluntary sectors
in the preparation of plans, moving implementation of services to states and municipal corporations,
expanding State AIDS Societies (SACS) to all states, and completing a baseline survey of HIV
prevalence. The GOI also established a consortium of external partners who worked under the leadership
of NACO.


At the time, IDA was the only donor with the capacity to assist India on the scale and longer time frame
needed to control HIV and AIDS nationwide. The value added of Bank support included its technical and
economic experience and its ability to work with other partners, such as UNAIDS, within one NACO-led
HIV developmental framework. In addition, lessons learned from the implementation of NACP 1 could
be applied to the new project, especially with regard to institutional arrangements and capacity building.
The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for India placed special emphasis on improving
the coverage, cost effectiveness, and equity of social programs.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The two key project objectives were to reduce the rate of growth of HIV infection in India and
strengthen India's capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS. These objectives were realistic, achievable and
consistent with government policies. Original key indicators were not well defined, as discussed in 7.3
and 8.2.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


N/A

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO,
as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)


The main beneficiaries of the project were:


    1. Groups at high-risk of contracting HIV: including sex workers (SWs), truck drivers, migrant
         laborers, men who have sex with men (MSM) and injecting drug users (IDUs). While the exact
         size of these populations was unknown, it was estimated at about 5% of the adult
         population. About a quarter of project costs were to be devoted to targeted interventions (TIs)
         which would reduce transmission of HIV, and contribute to decreasing the burden of HIV and
         other sexually transmitted infections (STI) among these groups.




                                                   3

    2. People living with HIV and AIDS (PLWHA): A growing number of people were already
         suffering from AIDS. The project was to provide treatment for opportunistic infections (OI) and
         other types of low-cost care, and launch campaigns to reduce stigma and discrimination against
         PLWHAs.
    3. The general community: Mass media campaigns on HIV awareness, enhanced safety of blood
         products, treatment of STI and increased availability of voluntary counseling and testing
         services were to benefit all members of the community.
    4. Women: Within the general population, women are more biologically susceptible to HIV
         infection, more likely to be marginalized both socially and economically if found to be HIV
         positive, and more vulnerable to sexual abuse and violence, both risk factors for contracting
         HIV. The most vulnerable women, female SWs, were important beneficiaries.
    5. Tribal populations: In states with large tribal populations, state Project Implementation Plans
         (PIPs) included a strategy for reaching out to tribal populations with locally appropriate
         community education programs, training and services.


In addition, there were other important benefits from the program. A large number of NGOs developed
the capacity to participate in and implement HIV program interventions.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


IDA was to finance 85% (net of taxes) of the requirements to implement two components:


Component 1: Deliver Cost-Effective Interventions Against HIV/AIDS (US$162.7 million; 71% of total
project costs) through (i) priority targeted interventions for groups at high risk (US$52.8 million; 23% of
total project costs); (ii) preventive interventions for the general community (US$77.4 million; 34% of
total project cost); and (iii) low-cost AIDS care (US$32.5 million; 14% of total project cost).


Component 2: Strengthen Capacity (US$67.1 million; 29% of total project cost) through; (i) institutional
capacity strengthening (US$57 million; 25% of total project cost); and (ii) inter-sectoral collaboration
(US$10.1 million; 4% of total project cost).


In addition, the project supported five key policy and institutional reforms, included in the National
Policy Letter (NPL) from GOI to IDA: (i) shifting the focus from raising awareness to changing
behavior through targeted interventions, particularly for groups at high risk of contracting and
transmitting HIV; (ii) decentralizing service delivery to the states and municipalities, and developing a
new facilitating role for NACO; (iii) protecting human rights by encouraging voluntary counseling and
testing, and discouraging mandatory testing; (iv) supporting structured and evidence-based annual
reviews and ongoing operational research; and (v) encouraging management reforms within state-level
AIDS Control Societies (SACS) and improved drug procurement practices.

6.6 Revised Components


N/A




                                                      4

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)


Re-allocation of funds between categories occurred twice during the project period - once in August
2004 and again in February 2006. The project was also extended from July 31, 2004 to March 31, 2006.
Both these actions were largely due to expenditure and disbursement lags, caused by (i) low allocations
to the project from the Planning Commission; (ii) capacity constraints at state level in absorbing funds
made available by NACO; and (iii) availability of large amounts of additional funding from other donor
agencies. With increasing awareness of the challenge posed by the epidemic and the need for an
enhanced response, several other donors came forward to participate in the program. Proceeds of the
IDA Credit were utilized only for those activities agreed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and
legal documents.



Among the benefits of these changes and new partners were the provision of technical support and
capacity building by donor partners in their focus states. The foundation was laid for a broad stakeholder
coalition but availability of additional funds from donors for the implementation of TI resulted in
reductions in budgetary allocations to NACO, with donor funds substituting IDA funds. This led to a
reduction in the number of TI being implemented with project funds and contributed to the disbursement
lags (see Section 7.2).

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was conducted in November 1998. The QER found that the
project was very likely to meet the three key factors for success at entry: (i) ownership by the client
(including state governments and NGOs); (ii) clarity and realism of design and approach; and (iii)
readiness for implementation.


Readiness was based on efforts during project design to ensure state level autonomy and capacity
building, proposal for partnering with private voluntary sector, strengthening of sentinel surveillance and
central management information system with annual implementation reviews, and project funding that
would substantially increase financial resources allocated for HIV/AIDS. At entry, state PIPs were ready
for all priority states and all but two states had established SACS. Analysis of available evidence
informed the project design: early, aggressive, preventive interventions among high risk groups were
identified as the most effective strategy to curb the epidemic*. Early treatment of co-infections and inter-
related diseases, such as STI and TB, would also substantially reduce the burden of HIV and AIDS.


Recommendations of the ICR of NACP 1 were incorporated, including: (i) decentralization of
implementation to enhance program management by providing flexibility at the state level, due to inter-
state variability in the epidemic and in implementation performance; and, (ii) strengthening systems for
monitoring, surveillance, procurement and financial management.




                                                      5

Stakeholders were adequately consulted during project preparation: (i) NGO consultations were held on
the way forward in expanding GOI/NGO collaboration; (ii) NGOs, SWs and PLWHAs participated in
state-level planning workshops; (iii) representatives of large industries and labor organizations worked
with NACO in developing workplace-based interventions; (iv) bi-laterals and other donor agencies
joined the IDA team on mission; and (v) state-level PIPs were prepared with the active participation of
state Department of Health officials and other stakeholders.

*The analysis was based upon: (a) D. Naylor; P. Jha; et al. A Fine Balance: Some Options for Public and Private
Health in Urban India, World Bank, 1999; (b) P. Piot and M. Over, HIV/AIDS and STDs, in Jamison et al,
Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1994; (c) Institute of
Medicine, Evaluating HIV/AIDS Control Programs, National Academy Press, Washington DC, 1997; (d) Over, M.
and M. Ainsworth, Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic, World Bank, 1997; and (e) J.
Dayton, World Bank HIV/AIDS Intervention: Ex Ante and ex-post evaluation, World Bank Discussion Paper No.
389, 1998.


7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)


The project faced substantial variation between states in the pace of implementation. The main factors
that impacted the interstate variation were: availability of experienced NGOs, delays in NGO
contracting, presence of bilateral/donor agency partners and implementation capacity. Actions to
address these factors included development of guidelines (e.g., guidelines for contracting of NGOs),
supervision frameworks and staff management capacity. Partnerships were established. For example,
Karnataka, despite having high HIV prevalence, did not have any external partners at the start of NACP
2 but was able to develop such partnerships mid-way through the project. All states established SACS to
implement the program based on state-level needs and could change the Annual Action Plan (if the
changes were within a component). The evolution from State AIDS Control Cells to State AIDS Control
Societies during the early phase of NACP 2 significantly improved timeliness of decentralized
disbursement of project resources; but still, shifts between components required NACO approval which
was often delayed due to insufficient capacity within NACO to respond expeditiously. The mid-term
review (MTR)* identified these bottlenecks, and actions included: improved training, strengthened
supervision of program activities by NACO to SACS, and by SACS to NGOs. The MTR also
recommended more results based financing -- a performance based approach had already been tried out
in NACP I which provided an incentive to well performing states that received additional resources
based on results. **


Other factors influencing implementation were stigma, discrimination and denial. Most of the
vulnerable groups at risk are highly stigmatized and marginalized populations, difficult to reach and
often outside the ambit of the law: SWs, IDUs, MSWs, MSM and street children. Working with these
communities was often difficult for implementing agencies, and challenges included police interference
and lack of support from the legal system. To counteract this, actions included mainstreaming of HIV
prevention in key sectors under NACP 2, such as the judiciary system, to facilitate legal and other
actions to de-stigmatize and increase reach and effective coverage. Political commitment at the center
was high throughout NACP 2, but varied between states. In states with high HIV prevalence, political
leadership was aware of the dangers of an escalating epidemic and largely supportive of prevention and
control efforts. However, in some of the low prevalence but highly vulnerable states, political leadership
remained in denial. The political economy of addressing issues of human behavior, social values, sex



                                                       6

and sexuality also influenced the varied political backing for the program. Finally, staffing gaps and
lack of continuity of key staff was a constant challenge. Frequent changes or shortages in staff caused
disruption and delay in implementation. Many of the actions that were initiated under NACP 2 to speed
up implementation need to continue under NACP 3 -- and be reinforced widely.

* Aide Memoire, Mid-Term Review; July 2003
**OED India National AIDS Control Project Performance Assessment.


7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The M&E system of the NACP 2 had several elements, including computerized management
information system (CMIS), sentinel surveillance and behavioral surveillance surveys (BSS) that were
designed, revised and strengthened during the duration of the project. But, there are still state level
functionaries that need to be trained to fill in the forms, and the data should be better utilized for state
level analysis, timely problem solving and informed decisions at the local level. Recognizing the need to
routinely monitor performance, a dash board is being developed for the third phase of the program.


The NACP 2 has shown a growing commitment to expanding and improving surveillance. India is the
only country in Asia with a surveillance system based on ANC data, rather than vulnerable group data.
Depending on the National Family Health Survey (NFHS 2006) findings, this may need to be revisited
since the major aim of a surveillance system is to understand and identify sources of new infection and
potential epidemic inroads. ANC data captures the tail-end of a long infection chain and does not serve
this purpose. The strength of the system, on the other hand, is the comprehensiveness of the ANC
system, which is being expanded, even in the north, which historically has had fewer sites. The NFHS
2006 is the world's largest population-based HIV survey and the first combined bio-behavioral survey in
the general population. The NACP has historically had very few SW, MSM and IDU sites with
questionable sampling and representativeness, and the formal surveillance system has not yet undertaken
bio-behavioral surveys of these vulnerable groups. However, in 2006, the Avahan project (supported by
the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation) is undertaking the world's largest bio-behavioral survey of
vulnerable groups - including SW, clients, truckers and IDU - which NACO is reviewing and may
include in the surveillance system.


Triangulation of sentinel surveillance, behavioral surveillance and other sources of data have been
lacking as a central part of program evaluation but the elements of strong M&E have been put in place.
This includes, quality review of the technical aspects of the sentinel surveillance and estimation of
prevalence by an expert committee headed by Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research,
and members drawn from WHO, UNAIDS and various research institutions.


Regarding the project M&E indicators identified in Annex 1 of the PAD, the intent was to update them
bi-annually. However, the DO indicators and several output indicators were not well defined from the
start and lacked specified targets. In addition, there was overlap between indicators for DO 2 and for
Component 1. In early 2005, these indicators were changed, and a much shorter list was adopted and
reported on in Aide Memoirs and ISRs, and formed the basis for ISR ratings. The revised list is
repetitive and omits all indicators for Component 2, due to limiting factors such as measurability.




                                                      7

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


Tribal Strategy: The tribal strategy called for culturally appropriate community awareness programs and
training. States with large tribal populations have utilized local media and messages as appropriate,
although the impact of these IEC efforts has not been tracked and reported on systematically.


Environment: The project was rated Environmental Category C. This was usual for AIDS projects
approved by the Bank's Board at the time: of nine such projects approved between 5/22/1997 and
9/12/2000, seven were Category C, including this project. GOI's Notification of Bio-Medical Waste
(Management and Handling) Rules 1998 was in effect and NACO took several actions to address waste
management issues, such as publishing waste management guidelines for VCTCs, blood banks and
PPTCTs. The project also supplied 10,000 needle crushers for the destruction of sharps and provided for
the training of staff in the safe handling of blood products since the hospitals that house the VCTCs,
blood banks and PPTCTs often do not have a waste management system in place for the final disposal of
sharps, blood samples, glass vials and other infectious waste. Retraining of staff is also essential since
there is a high turnover of laboratory technicians and other staff at the facility level.


Financial Management: An assessment of financial management under NACP 2 (Report on Developing
Financial Management Assessment Plan (draft), AF Ferguson and Co., New Delhi, February 2006)
identified a set of issues including lack of robust financial systems at all levels, absence of staff who are
appropriately qualified, trained and motivated, the need for financial harmonization of donors, with
common reporting systems, and, financial accountability of NGOs. The Governance and Accountability
Plan (GAAP) for the next project, NACP 3, will enhance efforts to address these issues as well as those
mentioned below, in the procurement section.


During NACP 2, funds flow and financial management faced problems due to a cap on budgetary
allocations placed by the Planning Commission, whereby allocations to NACO within the Health Budget
were determined independently of both requirements expressed in the Annual Plan and of funds
available through the IDA Credit and other sources. This issue was raised repeatedly by Bank
supervision missions as well as other donors. In 2004, the Planning Commission conceded that funds
that were given as grants to the program would be routed directly, and would be exempt from the cap.
IDA funds, however, since they are loans, continue to be subject to scrutiny and caps. The records show
that adequate funding was made available to the SACS to undertake their planned activities although
there were lags*.


                                           1999-00     2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05
      Funds Released                        1097.5     1087.2     1502.7     1646.2     1577.7    2483.7
      Total Expenditure as per Claims       1051.9      845.4     1445.1     1411.6     1464.5    1419.8
      Rs. in millions


These expenditure lags were caused by: (i) delays in approval of work-plans submitted by the SACS,
resulting in delay in release of first tranche by NACO to the SACS; (ii) inadequate financial delegation
at the SACS level in many states, resulting in pending files/approvals; (iii) delays/lags in submission of
financial reports from district level entities and from NGOs implementing the TI, resulting in lower
expenditure reporting by the SACS and the consequent impact on release of the second and subsequent



                                                     8

tranches by NACO to the states. The capacity of NGOs to manage the financial aspects of their program
remains poor; better systems and capacity building at the NGO level is urgently required. To address this
in the next phase of the program, the NGO contracting has been reviewed in-depth during NACP 3
project preparation and new guidelines will improve fiduciary probity within the project in this respect.
A computerized Project Finance Management System (PFMS) was developed for the project, following
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) guidelines, and effectively implemented. Consolidated
Project Management Reports (PMRs) were generated by the system at the NACO level, and furnished to
the Bank. The audit reports were generally received on time from the SACS and were consistent and
with uniformity in the accounting.


Procurement: A review of procurement under NACP 2 was undertaken as part of NACP 3 preparation
(Procurement Capacity Assessment of NACO and other Implementing Agencies under NACP 3 (draft);
Global Procurement Consultants Ltd., Mumbai, February 2006). The report identified several issues with
regard to procurement under NACP 2, including: (i) delays in procurement as compared to the
Procurement Plan; (ii) delays in finalizing technical specifications of items to be procured; (iii) repeated
extensions of bid validity; and, (iv) delays of a year or more in awarding contracts. Procurement capacity
at both NACO and the state level needs to be strengthened substantially. Two procurement agents were
hired by NACO; the first proved unsatisfactory and the second is still being tested. For a long period,
there was a single individual within NACO undertaking this important activity, which resulted in delays
of all procurement. Some procurement was decentralized to the states; however, capacity was equally
poor in the SACS and no procurement training was provided to them. Some SACS have also expressed a
preference for leaving all procurement to NACO, since it places undue pressure on them from local
interest groups.

* Analysis of Release and Utilization of Funds (1999-2K to 2004-05) undertaken by the Financial Management
Specialist, World Bank.


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


NACP 3 is under appraisal, scheduled to go to the Board in FY07. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
is being finalized, based on the Strategic Framework developed through extensive consultation with
stakeholders and development partners. NACP 3 will continue to support the overall strategy of NACP 2
and further scale up interventions targeted at high-risk groups. To achieve the national goal of halting
and reversing the HIV epidemic by 2011, the targeted interventions need to be significantly scaled up
while creating a more enabling environment that will increase the reach and involvement of those at
highest risk. The PIP will lay out how to bring up the performance level across states including an
institutional framework for efficient delivery of the program. As discussed above, under financial
management, the PIP will also include a GAAP, taking into account best practice with respect to review
of procurement of goods, works and services under Bank support.




                                                     9

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The objectives, design and implementation arrangements of NACP 2 were highly relevant. HIV and
AIDS were widely recognized at the time of preparation as the biggest challenges to development
globally. If effective prevention efforts were not implemented and sustained over the long term,
modeling at the time suggested that India could have about 37 million people infected with HIV by 2010
*, **. The project design chose a well-defined strategy *** focused on the delivery of interventions
among marginalized groups at high risk of contracting HIV and it was designed to scale up cost-
effective strategies that would: (a) reduce future social and financial costs of treating AIDS cases; (b)
concentrate on preventive interventions among the groups at highest risk of transmitting HIV; and (c)
decentralize service delivery so that appropriate local solutions could be devised. Twenty three percent
of the budget was allocated for targeted interventions, while other approaches were complementary and
would help create the necessary enabling and reinforcing environment. As discussed (6.1), the project fit
well with the World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for India (CAS; Report No. 17241-IN,
dated December 17, 1997), which placed special emphasis on improving the coverage, cost
effectiveness, and equity of social programs. The implementation arrangements were relevant for the
stage of the epidemic and context with decentralized management to state level and contracting with
NGOs to reach vulnerable populations at high risk. The support to key policy and institutional reforms
were also highly relevant: including those related to management reforms, human rights,
decentralization and shift from awareness raising to a focus on TIs.

*   Nagelkerke, N.J.D., and S.J. de Vlas (2002). The potential impact of an HIV vaccine on the HIV/AIDS
epidemic in southern India. Rotterdam: Department of Public Health, Erasmus University.
** Rao Seshadri, S; P. Jha and P. Subramaniyam The Potential Demand for and Strategic Use of an HIV-1
Vaccine in Southern India. Health & Population Policy Research Working Papers 3066; The World Bank,
Development Research Group, Washington DC; 2003.
*** Mead Over and Martha Ainsworth. Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic. Oxford
University Press; 1997.


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)


The Bank's contribution to AIDS control programming in India increased substantially between NACP 1
and 2, from about US$83.6 million to $190 million. New components were added, such as TI and care
and support. Funding towards strategic planning, policy development, intersectoral collaboration and
program management of the expanded program increased significantly while components such as blood
safety, which comprised almost half the program during NACP 1, constituted only about 20% of the
program during NACP 2. The Bank's contribution to IEC/BCC, TI and care and support was significant
(about 80% of total programming; of which 23% were for TIs), while it contributed a smaller proportion
of total funding for blood safety, surveillance and management, largely due to salary costs of personnel
and maintenance of facilities, both of which were contributed by the government.




                                                     10

          Bank Contribution to AIDS Control Programming in India 1992-2006 (US$ 000)
                                                            Program Of which         Program        Of which
                                                             1992-99      IDA*      1999-2006         IDA**
Strategy/Policy Development/Program Management 10,505                 4,415         68,533        40,400
Surveillance                                                15,379    8,801         6,377         2,695
Blood Safety                                                45,017    39,141        60,533        38,833
IEC/BCC                                                     23,786    16,955        25,933        28,600
STI Management                                              18,642    14,338
Targeted Interventions                                                              59,022        50,600
Care and Support                                                                    36,288        28,900
Total                                                       113,329 83,650          256,688       190,000
* Additional support for NACP 1 was provided by WHO (US$2,192,000) and GOI (US$27,487,000). (Source:
PPAR; OED Report, 2003, Annex D)
** US$ amounts have been calculated on the basis of 1$=Rs.45. (Source: NACO Report; April 2006). Figures
presented here are the Appraisal Estimates. Additional funds have been provided by GOI and bilateral agencies,
BMGF and GFATM.


Development Objective (DO) 1: Reduce the rate of growth of HIV infection in India


Achievement of this DO is rated Satisfactory. The goal was to contain the epidemic at less than 5% of
the adult population in the high prevalence states and at less the 3% in the low prevalence states. The
latest round of sentinel surveillance shows that adult prevalence is at 0.91% overall for the country;
3.79%in the high prevalence states, and at between 0.12% and 1.29% in medium and low prevalence
states. Thus the stated goals for the project with regard to containing the epidemic have been achieved.
Although project attribution is always difficult to establish at national level when a programmatic
approach is taken and many partners and projects are contributing to common objectives, Annex 4
shows the project inputs and outputs by component and the coverage rates of high risk groups. Overall,
HIV prevalence at ante-natal care (ANC) clinics was 0.88% during the latest round of surveillance
(2005), suggesting that the epidemic is stabilizing in the general population. However, this overall figure
masks inter- and intra-state differentials. NACO has determined that the epidemic has declined since
1999 in 13 states, remained constant in nine states, and increased in 13 states. The states that perform
well are among those states with high HIV prevalence, and the reduction in the rate of growth of HIV
infection in those states has influenced the overall national trends. It is important to note that the
epidemic is highly variable in its dynamics between states, and between districts within the same state,
showing a heterogeneous picture of concentrated epidemics.* The recent analysis of the trends in India
and elsewhere in South Asia shows concentrated epidemics among groups at high risk, see table below.
In 2005, the overall HIV prevalence among high risk groups which the program targeted were 8.5% in
SWs, 5.6% in STI clinic attendants, 10.16% in IDUs and 8.7% in MSM, with great variations (the same
data is not available for previous years to enable trend analysis).




                                                      11

        Annual HIV prevalence rates among different population groups in India (2003-2005)




The evidence base is solid for a causal link between increased effective utilization coverage of TIs
(outputs) and improved outcomes. Selected utilization coverage rates can serve as proxies for outcomes,
i.e. condom use, and clean needle exchange. The TI projects (for example the Sonagachi CBO program
in West Bengal) and the states with the highest coverage rates (for example Tamil Nadu) are where HIV
prevalence seems to be leveling off (Kumar, Jha et al., 2006). For example, one-third decline in HIV
prevalence among young women in South India may be due primarily to high levels of condom use in
the context of commercial sex attributed to NACP 2 interventions. These studies validate the trends
shown in sentinel surveillance. However, more will be known about the current prevalence level in the
general population when the NFHS data become available later in 2006. In absolute numbers, an
estimated 5.2 - 5.7 million** people are now HIV positive across the country, up from about 3.86
million in 2000. Men constitute a little over 60% of the burden, about the same as in 2000, and about
60% of the infections are now in rural areas, up from 24% in 2000. High prevalence states now account
for about 70% of all infections, down from about 74% in 2000.

* World Bank. "AIDS in South Asia: Understanding and Responding to a Heterogeneous Epidemic."
** 5.2 million is the official GOI figure of adult infections while the 5.7 million estimate is the UNAIDS reported
number for the whole population which GOI is still in the process of examining. Both are based on sentinel
surveillance (discussed in 7.3).


Development Objective (DO) 2: Strengthen India's capacity to respond to HIV and AIDS


Achievement of this DO is Moderately Satisfactory, based on the following key performance indicators:


     · Percentage of states/municipalities in which State AIDS Control Societies (SACS) are
         functioning: SACS have been established in all states and in three major municipalities
         (Ahmedabad, Chennai and Mumbai). As noted (Section 7.2) there was a dramatic positive
         change in financial management when the SACS were established. However, vacancy of staff is
         about 20%*; and turnover of PDs at all SACS (except Andhra Pradesh) has been unacceptably
         high, as was noted repeatedly in Aide Memoirs. The process of orientation and sensitization of a
         string of short-duration PDs caused some disruption in programming.




                                                         12

    · Percentage of states/municipalities that are effectively managing TIs, including mapping and
         scaling-up: All states, and the three municipalities, are implementing TIs. The original target of
         1500 TIs set at the beginning of the project was reduced to 1100 in the implementation plan for
         extension, and then revised to 1432. Of this, 1088 TIs were implemented across the country. The
         numeric target for the Bank support for TIs was decreased because other players, especially the
         Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, came in during NACP 2 and started to support a large
         number of TIs, so for NACO the NACP 2 target number was achieved. In addition to TIs
         supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, UNDP, UNODC, ICHAP and others,
         composite projects were implemented in several states, which covered larger numbers of the
         target groups, and sometimes multiple target groups. Mapping of high-risk groups has been
         completed in all states. Six regional workshops were organized by NACO to build capacity of
         SACS to manage TIs, and all states have now prepared plans for scaling-up TI to saturate all key
         populations. More than half of all TIs are being implemented in the six high prevalence states,
         and targets in those states have been exceeded. The shortfall has been due to poor performance
         in states such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan Chattisgarh, Punjab,
         Uttaranchal, Goa, and Meghalaya. These low performing states were categorized as low
         prevalence states; delays in scaling-up TI in these states may be a sign of complacency which
         may prove to be a costly mistake in the long run since some of these states are also among the
         ones now ranked as high vulnerability states. These are also the same states that perform poorly
         across most programs, with institutional weakness and poor track record in general, not
         particular to NACP 2.
    · Access coverage: About 35-45% of female SWs, 46% of IDUs, and only 6% of MSM and MSW
         have been reached by TIs. The mapping exercise was an important first step in estimating the
         size and location of high-risk populations. This assisted NACO in planning TIs and also helped
         broadening the base for interventions with SWs, to include street based and home based
         workers. NACP 2 had planned for coverage of 80% of the high-risk population; however, it is
         now clear that the numbers to be covered are far larger than had been envisaged, and NACO
         estimates that it will need to increase the number of TIs 3-4 fold in order to saturate the target
         populations under NACP 3.

* IDA Supervision mission Aide Memoire; September 2005.


8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


As shown in Annex 5, the benefit-cost analysis, that estimated economic returns to investment were
considerable. In addition, the cost effectiveness analysis led to a selection of the most cost-effective
interventions for program implementation (interventions for sex workers and men at high risk, STI
management and VCTC). Ex post, measurable results and actual costs validate the initial cost-
effectiveness analysis, as discussed in 8.2 and Annex 3 and 4. Regarding the benefits-cost estimates,
there is not enough evidence yet to comment ex post, but ongoing analysis of economic impact might
add further strength to the original benefit cost analysis.




                                                     13

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)


Rating: Satisfactory
The most important objective of the project was to ensure that there was no explosive growth in the
epidemic; this has been achieved as shown in 7.2 -7.5. The impact of this in terms of Disability
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) gained, human suffering avoided, economic losses averted, and human
development overall is impressive. The institutional mechanisms for ensuring that such efforts are scaled
up and sustained will continue to be strengthened, since commitment to reversing the epidemic is strong
at both national and state levels.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)


(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


The outcomes and impact of the project on poverty, gender and social development is difficult to
estimate for the following reasons: The project did not undertake specific studies or evaluations of the
impact of project interventions on poverty or gender aspects. There is a paucity of such material overall,
with a few studies done by other agencies or academia on these topics. A Bank funded socioeconomic
impact study is underway reviewing the economic consequences of HIV and AIDS, and also a costing
study to estimate the cost of scaling up ART in India. There is also a small body of literature that has
studied the socio-economic impacts of the HIV epidemic, in particular among vulnerable groups, cited in
a recent publication of the Health Policy Research Unit of the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi
(India Database on HIV/AIDS: Program Management and Socioeconomic Vulnerability and Impact;
Health Policy Research Unit, Institute of Economic Growth and UNAIDS). Stigma and discrimination
are important factors that have influenced the effectiveness of the program, disproportionally so among
vulnerable population groups. Globally, stigma and discrimination against PLWHAs have been widely
recognized and a recent study on hospital-based stigma found that (Mahendra V. S. et al. Reducing
AIDS-related stigma and discrimination in Indian hospitals. Horizons Final Report; New Delhi:
Population Council; 2006): (i) stigma can lead to delay and denial of treatment; (ii) both individuals and
institutions discriminate against PLWHAs; and (iii) interventions to increase awareness of HIV related
issues and reduce stigma can be effective in improving attitudes of health care workers. Much more
attention needs to be paid to the impact of stigma and to destigmatization through a strategic
communications plan and other multi sector interventions in various contexts, including the family,
community, educational settings, workplace and health system.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


Significant institutional change took place during the duration of the project to manage a large
coordinated response. A review of the following factors and project contributions, show a nuanced
picture with both institutional strengths and weaknesses:




                                                  14

Development of management capacity: Capacity has been built centrally at NACO to manage a large
coordinated response to HIV and AIDS. Technical and managerial capacity has also been built, although
there is still a way to go, both at NACO and SACS to partner effectively with NGOs and CBOs in
addressing a multi-dimensional problem among often marginalized communities. For example, a central
function of program management is procurement, including capacity to contract with NGOs and CBOs -
- a main vehicle for reaching higher coverage and scaling up. This critical management function has
remained weak while other functions have been consistently stronger.


    1. Decentralization to SACS: With the SACS in charge of state-level program implementation, it
         has been possible for the program to scale up substantially, albeit with some variation across the
         country, including in NGO contracting, as discussed under (1). Absorptive capacity of NACP
         has grown impressively as a result of decentralization with NACO programming increasing six-
         fold.
    2. CMIS: The establishment of the CMIS was an important step in institutionalizing management
         of the program. It needs further strengthening and follow-up; reports are not yet being received
         regularly from all states, and information is not being used effectively for management decision-
         making at state level. Strengthening of Surveillance is discussed under 7.3.
    3. Blood Banks: A network of certified blood banks has been established across the country, a
         National Blood Policy is in place and quality assurance and training programs have been
         developed to ensure safe and rational use of blood.
    4. Partnerships: Most importantly, the NACP is leading a collaborative effort of a consortium of
         donors, all working within the same framework, under the overall administration of NACO
         which is evolving into a coherent program. This has had a positive impact on the quality and
         coverage of the program.
    5. Mainstreaming project strategies: Several strategies initiated by the project have now been
         mainstreamed by different sectors, although more needs to be done. One example is the school
         AIDS program, which has been taken over by the Education Ministry and will be implemented
         by them. Another example is STI management under TI: in states such as Tamil Nadu, this has
         been mainstreamed into the General Health Service, with staff, drugs and consumables being
         provided from the state health budget.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


    1. Adopting a Programmatic Approach: The programmatic approach adopted by NACP 2, and
         facilitated by the Bank and other development partners, has laid the foundation for the "three
         ones"; it has brought together the many donors in support of one national program, one
         framework for action and striving towards one monitoring and evaluation system.
    2. NACO's response to the feminization of the epidemic: The proportion of women living with
         HIV has increased as expected in the states with generalized epidemics. NACO has been
         proactive in its response to this development, setting up a Gender Desk at NACO tasked with
         assisting women to access services; as well as to develop programs focusing on women's
         empowerment and involving them in the program. The expected impact of the gender desk will
         depend on its ability to include gender aspects in policies, strategies and program
         implementation.




                                                   15

    3. Networking of PLWHAs: While development of networks of PLWHAs was on the agenda of
        NACP 2, their growth in numbers and membership and the influence that they have been able to
        exert on programming and policies has been well beyond what had been envisaged under the
        project. Active PLWHA networks have raised human rights issues and increased focus on access
        to treatment.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


N/A

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible


The risk to development outcome is rated Low. The government is making very
significant commitments now, as reflected in the following:


Financial: GOI has been able to tap a large amount of funding from a range of donors, including USAID,
DfID, AusAID, CIDA, UNDP and GFATM.


                               Existing         Allocation approved by EFC

         Project              Allocation         for expansion of NACP-II             Project

                            (INR million)      (routed through GOI budget)             Period
                                                        (INR million)
WB assisted NACP-II                     11550                             11550      1999-2006
USAID PSH                                1660                              1660      2000-2007
DFID                                     1040                              4870      2000-2007
USAID APAC                                                                 645.8     2002-2007
AusAID Project                                                             246.5
CIDA Project                                                               378.1     2001-2006
UNDP Project                                                                64.7     2002-2004
GFATM                                                                    1227.4      2004-2006
TOTAL                                   14250                           20646.5


As a result, IDA's share of the total funding applied towards NACP 2 was about 56% (Rs. 11150 million
of a total of Rs. 20646.50 million or approximately US$450 million equivalent). The preparation for
NACP 3 is well underway; it is to be funded by a consortium of donors, who are working together in
preparing the project. The National Planning Team that has been constituted for this purpose has
estimated that a total funding of around US$2.5 billion is required in the next five years for India to
sufficiently scale-up services to reverse the epidemic. The Government is seeking an IDA contribution
of US$250-500 million for the NACP 3. The government will also significantly scale up its contribution.


Technical: NACP 2 adopted and developed global best practices: TIs, focusing on groups at high-risk of
transmitting and contracting HIV, teamed with STI services, voluntary counseling and testing for HIV,
and care and support for those with AIDS related illness. NACP 3 will focus on scaling-up these
interventions across the country to increase access and coverage. The program will put in place
mechanisms for capacity building, quality assurance and monitoring of program specific services with



                                                   16

stronger linkages to overall health systems strengthening, since the quality of services provided by state
health systems is generally poor. For example, the mainstreaming of HIV prevention, treatment and care
within the NRHM and the state health system, and convergence with the Reproductive and Child Health
and TB programs of the government will be other means to improve quality and reach of HIV control. In
addition, capacity to monitor the program and track the epidemic has been substantially enhanced;
greater use of such information will be made in the future to inform strategic choices.


Institutional: Decentralization of HIV control activities to the state level was accomplished under NACP
2. This will be continued and strengthened, with further decentralization to the district level and by
convergence with relevant programs, for example, the Reproductive and Child Health and TB control
programs. Plans are also underway to strengthen contracting and capacity building of NGOs, as well as
procurement, since the demands on these functions are growing. The challenge will be to ensure
adequate staffing at both NACO and SACS to implement these activities. Robust systems need to be
established for monitoring performance of NGOs.


Social: Awareness of HIV across all age groups and geographical regions has grown and initial progress
has been made in reducing stigma against PLWHAs through IEC/BCC and with the establishment of
INP+ networks. Demand for services such as STI treatment and voluntary HIV testing and treatment is
rising. Civil society organizations as well as media have taken up HIV prevention and treatment as
important issues and raise them in various national and international foray.


Political/Government Ownership: At the national level, and in most states, governments and political
leadership have made strong statements regarding the need to stem the epidemic. This will be further
strengthened under NACP 3. States that undertook an aggressive program with strong political backing
are showing signs of success; this is likely to serve as impetus for other states. The government has
made commitments to significantly increase the funding which reflects both growing commitment and
ownership (see finance above).

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory


The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry was Satisfactory. Global expertise and lessons
learned were tapped in order to design the project and best practice in the area of HIV prevention was
applied to the Indian context. Key sector issues and risks were identified and steps were taken to mitigate
them. The QER Panel supported the approach taken by the project, in particular:


Technical Issues: The technical approach taken by the project, to target interventions to groups whose
practices put them at high risk of infection, was based on globally accepted best practice; as well as
rigorous economic analysis. Public financing of the project was justified due to the 'public good' nature
of HIV prevention activities, the positive externalities associated with treating STI and TB, and the
disproportionate vulnerability of the poor and marginalized to HIV infection. In addition, a decision was
made to include some broader complementary components, aimed at the general population.


                                                    17

Institutional Arrangements: The institutional arrangements were clear and adequate. It was decided that
state-level Societies would be used for project implementation based on the successful experience in
Tamil Nadu. The PAD recorded that, at Negotiations, all but two states had formed Societies and that
staffing at national and state levels, including of PDs, had begun. State PIPs for priority states were
complete, and the national level PIP had also been furnished to the Bank. Based on comments received
from the QER, the team also documented GOI's efforts to develop an overall framework, identifying
strategic areas of financing by different funding partners and the part to be played by IDA financing.


The preparation process was highly participatory, with the Bank providing technical assistance to GOI
through Technical Liaison Officers (TLOs), both senior officials with experience in HIV prevention and
control. Teams headed by the TLOs and comprising other experts in the field and World Bank
consultants held workshops in each of the large states and priority states in the North East to prepare
state-level PIPs that were responsive to the needs of individual states. Procurement documents for first
year activities were completed and technical bid evaluation of the short-listed procurement agencies was
also completed.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


Supervision performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) High turnover of
Task Team Leaders (TTLs); six from preparation through the end of the project, causing disruptions in
dialogue with the government. (ii) The mid-term review (MTR) was inordinately delayed which was an
important opportunity lost in providing timely feed-back and support to the government and to undertake
project restructuring if necessary. The MTR composition was the right one in identifying problems and
solutions and having the right team composition vis a vis the key issues (See 7.2). The project was then
four years into implementation with only one year left before Project Closing. Disbursement was at only
55%; with two problem flags against the project. The reasons given for the delay were scheduling
difficulties and frequent informal interaction between the TTL and PD, NACO for troubleshooting and
resolving day-to-day issues. (iii) Concerns were expressed regarding the justification for the Family
Health Awareness Campaign. There was a considerable cost implication to these campaigns*; however,
the results and contributions of these campaigns to the development objective of the project were not
assessed, and action was not taken by Bank to halt or strengthen the campaigns, which were held
regularly for several years. (iv) The monitoring framework was not adequately managed and updated. As
of May 2005, however, a different set of indicators has been reported on. With the introduction of ISRs,
the task team was advised to report on relevant indicators already being collected by NACO, through the
CMIS.


The Bank regularly provided on-going supervision focused on the implementation of TIs and capacity
building issues that were important to scaling-up effective interventions. The Bank team was proactive in
several areas: (i) it engaged GOI in policy dialogue which eventually resulted in the budgetary cap to
allocations to NACO being re-considered and revised; (ii) consultations were held with women's groups
that were initially opposed to SW interventions, and agreement on the parameters was reached with them
so that the program could continue; and (iii) technical assistance was provided to clarify the debate on
the total number of HIV positive people in the country as well as number of AIDS deaths. This was
important since the debate on numbers was detracting focus from important implementation issues. For a



                                                    18

long period, supervision was shifted from HQ to the New Delhi Office, resulting in more regular
interaction between the Bank and Borrower and enabling day-to-day problem solving. Aide Memoirs
and PSRs were detailed and documented progress on DOs and implementation comprehensively.


Bank-supported AAA was carried out to assist GOI to fine-tune program priorities, such as on the cost-
effectiveness of drug therapy. Management generally supported actions recommended by the supervision
team, and provided thoughtful comments in the PSR.

* Letter from Peter Heywood, Principal Health Specialist, SASHP to Mr. J. V. R. Prasada Rao, Additional
Secretary and Project Director (NACO) dated September 13, 1999.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


The Bank team was able to focus the program on the development outcomes and their proxies
through best practices addressing the epidemic. This focus is now well internalized into the system, and
will be further strengthened in NACP 3. Supervision focused on implementation progress of effective
interventions, the most important objective of NACP 2. The Bank team also facilitated the shift towards
a programmatic multi-sector approach to HIV and the "Three Ones", ensuring smooth transition
arrangements after credit closing and into the third phase of the national program.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


Government commitment to the overall program was expressed in the National Policy Letter*; however,
this was not reflected in adequate allocations made to the program. An important reason for slow
disbursements under the project was due to low allocations made towards HIV control activities. The
mid-term review notes that while the amount of donor funds (under the Bank projects and bilateral
agreements) available for HIV increased over time, the HIV budget level has not increased relative to
increased funding assistance. As a result, NACO and SACS were unable to scale-up the interventions as
planned, a major objective of NACP 2, and a core contributory factor to the success of the program.

* Annex 3, Project Appraisal Document.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


National AIDS Control Organization (NACO)


The overall performance of NACO was Satisfactory although performance varied over time, with an
initial slow start and two extensions. NACO was able to establish its credibility as an entity capable of
managing a large program, attracting and managing a large amount of support from a range of donors.
NACO was able to expand its program to include many new elements (such as ART and PPTCT) which
had not been envisaged under NACP 2, initiate new programs such as the sentinel surveillance and




                                                    19

BSS to enhance the understanding of the epidemic, and keep the program largely on course. During
NACP 2 it expanded from a fairly modest program focused on blood safety to one of the largest HIV
prevention programs in the world.


NACO was responsible for program implementation at the national level. Due to the nature of the
organization, it was not possible for NACO to exercise control of some important aspects of
implementation. For example, NACO had no control over the appointment and tenure of officers at the
state level, in order to reduce transfers of key officers. Even within NACO, staffing was a continual
issue, with several posts remaining vacant for almost the entire duration of the project. Some functions
were outsourced to special agencies, such as procurement, but this arrangement was not smooth and
proved to be ineffective. Procurement was delayed throughout the project period and financial
management problems had been flagged during implementation. Due to the large number of
implementing agencies (SACS and NGOs), there were delays in submission of SOEs, leading to delays
in submissions of claims. As a result, the project experienced significant disbursement delays. Progress
has been made towards more timely resolutions of implementation constraints, improved fiduciary
arrangements and adequate monitoring during the last period of the NACP 2 which has contributed to
the overall satisfactory rating at project closing.


State AIDS Control Societies (SACS)


Performance of the SACS ranged widely, but the states with the greatest burden and most urgent needs
performed the best - ranging from Satisfactory to Moderately Satisfactory. States with high capacity
were able to scale-up their programs substantially with evidence to show that this may already have had
a positive impact in slowing the epidemic in these states, as discussed previously*. Many of the low
capacity states were those classified as low prevalence and have not geared up to provide a coherent
response. However, overall the SACS have been able to scale up the program substantially and to
manage a large number of contracts with NGOs, a relatively new activity for them and an area requiring
further attention across all states, as discussed in 8.5.

* Rajesh Kumar, Prabhat Jha, Paul Arora, Prem Mony, Prakash Bhatia, Peggy Millson, Neeraj Dhingra,
Madhulekha Bhattacharya, Robert S Remis, Nico Nagelkerke, for the International Studies of HIV and AIDS
(ISHA) Investigators. Trends in HIV-1 in young adults in south India from 2000 to 2004: a prevalence study.
Lancet; March 30, 2006.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


GOI, NACO and the SACS have put in place a comprehensive national program, involving a wide
spectrum of stakeholders, to ensure that a coherent response is in place to fight the HIV epidemic. The
system needs to be strengthened on many fronts, but a firm basis is in place on which future efforts can
be built. The program has been able to garner widespread support among leaders, administrators and
civil society; and, as a result, there is a commitment to scale-up efforts at all levels with the objective of
reversing the epidemic. The program has adopted evidence based interventions and has been able to
increasingly provide for other interventions than prevention, such as treatment, care and support.




                                                     20

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)


The NACP 2 has provided some important lessons for the next phase of the program, NACP 3, and for
HIV prevention and control efforts globally:


   1. An important lesson learned from NACP 2 is that the states that were able to show results by
       scaling up their programs and decrease HIV prevalence demonstrated a combination of strong
       political commitment, a programmatic focus on TIs, good management with continuity of
       trained staff and good surveillance. In addition, they were adequately resourced with both
       technical assistance and financial support.
   2. Learning from NACP 2, successful implementation of TIs required identification of high
       risk groups and coverage gaps through comprehensive micro-site mapping that is repeated
       periodically since high-risk groups are mobile and dynamically changing populations.
       Participatory mapping involving community-based organizations has been a best practice.
       In the next phase (NACP 3) coverage of targeted interventions among MSM, IDUs and SWs and
       their clients has to be saturated; such a substantial scale-up will require further capacity building
       of NGOs and CBOs to implement and monitor quality TIs as NACP 2 has shown.
   3. The NACP 2 has also highlighted the central role of surveillance. Increasing the number of
       sites in the southern states provided a strong evidence base; this is required in all states,
       particularly among highly vulnerable but low prevalence states, and among high-risk groups
       everywhere. NACP 2 has also highlighted the problem encountered when there is not a strong
       program monitoring system in place from the beginning of the project to track a set of indicators
       consistently throughout the project period; including good performance indicators. This is a
       priority for NACP 3 project preparation, which is developing dash board as a tool to monitor
       state performance. Ensuring that baseline data is available and on record is crucial and
       project preparation teams need to ensure that the necessary technical assistance as well as
       time is made available for this purpose.
   4. A lesson from decentralized management of finance and procurement by SACS is the need for
       a full contingent of trained and skilled staff in key posts, such as a NGO Advisor. With plans
       for expansion of activities under NACP 3, it will be necessary to enhance staffing of SACS,
       particularly to liaise with, and build capacity of NGOs, and to carry out the program monitoring.
       Ensuring continuity of staff is equally important, particularly of the PD, as relatively
       successful SACS have shown. Capacity building of SACS, particularly in low performing states,
       cannot be emphasized enough. Sensitization of staff to the program is not enough; a program of
       continuing education needs to be developed to keep staff abreast of the latest technical
       developments, management issues, and monitoring methodologies and to learn from each other.
       In addition, the GAAP for NACP 3 will help to enhance governance of financing and
       procurement.
   5. Several lessons can be drawn from NACP 2 about the central role of partnership with donors,
       NGOs and CBOs, for example, partnering with NGOs with a strong track record of
       program implementation has helped ensure quality as well as reach. States that have done
       well have all had the benefit of technical assistance from partners. While the modalities for
       providing technical support need to be spelled out, the experience of the states clearly shows that
       it provides an essential boost to implementation. This is particularly important in poor
       performing states that are struggling to scale up interventions.



                                                   21

    6. The relationship between NGOs and SACS is critical to successful scale-up. Donors need to
        agree on standard contracts for NGOs and CBOs; and, more information regarding NGO
        selection criteria and participation in the program needs to be in the public domain to increase
        transparency in the NGO contracting process. Learning from good performing states, regular
        visits from NACO and SACS to NGO sites both prior to selection and during implementation
        need to be built into the contract, and the monitoring forms from NGOs to SACS need to be
        streamlined. The experience of Tamil Nadu SACS, derived from the USAID-funded APAC
        system and later incorporated into the design of NACP 2 (described in detail in the NACP 2 PIP)
        of contracting, managing and monitoring NGOs, needs to be rigorously applied in NACP 3.
    7. The lessons from 5 and 6 - that NGO and CBO partnerships are essential, the program
        requires inputs from partners to make this work, and more dissemination of learning and
        technical strengthening is needed as the program expands -- provide a strong argument for a
        programmatic approach. Another lesson learned from NACP 2 is that the program needs
        increased multi-sector involvement in key areas to address some of the underlying determinants
        and create an enabling environment -- including a legal framework -- to reduce stigma, increase
        awareness, educate and increase access and use of prevention and treatment services. The
        development of a national communications strategy in the next phase of the program will be
        important in reaching the general population as well as vulnerable groups, including the tracking
        of IEC efforts that was a missing element in NACP 2. The multi-sector approach needs to be
        strategic and selective to focus on mainstreaming HIV prevention interventions in key
        sectors. Convergence with the RCH program and incorporation in the newly created National
        Rural Health Mission, where integration with the AIDS program is a stated objective, offer
        opportunities for synergy and expansion of the health services component of the program that
        have not yet been captured.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


Agreement with observations made by Implementing Agency/Borrower (Annex 10) on the draft ICR
regarding need for consistency in the draft ICR use of numbers of infected persons in India. The official
figure is 5.2 million whereas UNAIDS has estimated 5.7 million, which GOI is still examining. The ICR
provides a range of 5.2-5.7 million, and explanation for the different sources.


The Implementing Agency/Borrower also notes that the draft of BSS 2006 is ready, pending peer
review. The ICR is using previous official estimates in the Table (page 36), as the peer review process
has not been completed at the time of the ICR.


The Implementing Agency/Borrower commented that the outlay for NACP III is US$2.5 billion instead
of US$1.5 billion which was the requirement for the next five years quoted in the draft ICR. It was
suggested that the ICR indicate a range of US$250-500 million in requested IDA contributions for
NACP 3 rather than the US$250 million in the draft ICR, which has been done.


(b) Cofinanciers
N/A




                                                    22

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g,. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                             23

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The two key project objectives were to reduce the rate of growth of HIV infection in India and
strengthen India's capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS. These objectives were realistic, achievable and
consistent with government policies. Original key indicators were not well defined, as discussed in 7.3
and 8.2.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                              Original Target Formally            Actual Value

        Indicator            Baseline Value     Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                   approval        Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values         Target Years
                           Reduce the rate of growth of HIV infections in India. (The reduction in
Indicator 1 :              the rate of HIV spread would be reflected in the stabilization of the
                           annual percentage increase of HIV prevalence.)
                                              <5% in high
Value (quantitative or                        prevalence states
                           0.7%                                               0.8%
Qualitative)                                  <3% in low
                                              prevalence states
Date achieved              11/09/1999         03/31/2006                      12/30/2005
Comments (including %
achievement)
                           Strengthen India's capacity to respond to the epidemic. (to be
Indicator 2 :
                           measured by several indicators).
                           Mapping, targeted
                                              Mapping in 38
                           intervention                                       Mapping in all
                                              states and
                           expansion,                                         States completed,
                                              territories
Value (quantitative or     expansion of                                       1088 (731 WB
                                              completed, all
Qualitative)               health based                                       funded) targeted
                                              SACS
                           services--see                                      interventions, 70%
                                              functioning with
                           outcome                                            of staff on board.
                                              full staffing.
                           indicators.
Date achieved              11/09/1999         03/31/2006                      03/31/2006
Comments (including %
achievement)




                                                  24

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

         Indicator       Baseline Value       Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :           Completion of participatory mapping of groups at high risk.
Value (quantitative or
                        0                  38                               38
Qualitative)
Date achieved           11/09/1999         03/31/2006                       03/31/2006
Comments
(incl. % achievement)
Indicator 2 :           Number of targeted interventions implemented to reach high risk groups.
Value
                                                              1432* not
(quantitative or        157                1500                             1088
                                                              formally
Qualitative)
Date achieved           11/09/1999         03/31/2006         03/31/2006 03/31/2006
                        The target was revised because other partners supported TIs. Although
Comments (including %
                        less TIs (1088) were implemented by the project, the original target was
achievement)
                        achieved because of the number of TIs supported by other partners.
Indicator 3 :           Percentage of population aware of HIV/AIDS
                                                                            Urban 89%; Rural
Value (quantitative or  76% overall,
                                           100%                             82% (BBC World
Qualitative)            range 22-99%
                                                                            Service Trust)
Date achieved           07/31/2000         03/31/2006                       06/30/2005
Comments (including %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :           Number of sites offering Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT)
Value (quantitative or
                        62                 900                              1114
Qualitative)
Date achieved           11/09/1999         01/31/2006                       03/31/2006
Comments (including %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :           Number of STD clinics established.
Value (quantitative or
                        504                757                              922
Qualitative)
Date achieved           11/09/1999         03/31/2006                       03/31/2006
Comments (including %
achievement)




                                              25

                        Number of Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission Centers
Indicator 6 :
                        established
Value (quantitative or
                        0                600                              804
Qualitative)
Date achieved           11/09/1999       03/31/2006                       03/31/2006
Comments (including %
achievement)




                                           26

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)


 Restructuring          Board      ISR Ratings at Amount Disbursed      Reason for
                                   Restructuring
     Date(s)          Approved                    at Restructuring in Restructuring &
                    PDO Change      DO        IP       USD M         Key Changes Made



The project was not restructured.




                                           27

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                               Appraisal
                Components                   Estimate (USD     Actual/Latest   Percentage of

                                                  M)         Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

1. DELIVER COST-EFFECTIVE
INTERVENTIONS AGAINST HIV/AIDS
(i) Priority Targeted Interventions for
                                                      47.80              33.50        70.08
Groups at High Risk
(ii) Preventive Interventions for the
                                                      69.50             136.90       196.98
General Community
(iii) Low-cost AIDS Care                              29.00              10.60        36.55
2. STRENGTHEN CAPACITY
(i) Institution Strengthening                         51.80              49.90        96.33
(ii) Intersectoral Collaboration                       9.20               1.60        17.39
                       Total Baseline Cost          207.30              232.50
Physical Contingencies                                18.60
Price Contingencies                                    3.80
                        Total Project Costs         229.70
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                     0.00               0.00         0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.00               0.00         0.00
                Total Financing Required            229.70              232.50



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal
         Source of Funds             Type of                    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                   CofinancingEstimate (USD
                                                    M)       Estimate (USD M)   Appraisal

  Borrower                                              38.80            38.80       100.00
INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                            191.00           193.70       101.41
ASSOCIATION




                                                 28

(c) Disbursement Profile




                        Note: The graph is in currency of the loan/credit/grant.




                                                29

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

NACP 2 had the following components:


Component 1: Deliver Cost-Effective Interventions Against HIV/AIDS (US$162.7 million; 71% of
total project costs) through: (i) priority targeted interventions for groups at high risk (US$52.8
million; 23% of total project costs); (ii) preventive interventions for the general community (US$77.4
million; 34% of total project cost); and (iii) low-cost AIDS care (US$32.5 million; 14% of total
project cost).


Component 2: Strengthen Capacity (US$67.1 million; 29% of total project cost) through: (i)
institutional capacity strengthening (US$57 million; 25% of total project cost) and (ii) inter-sectoral
collaboration (US$10.1 million; 4% of total project cost).


The overall rating for Implementation Progress is Satisfactory. The rating is based on the following
achievements:


Component 1: Deliver Cost-Effective Interventions against HIV/AIDS


Component 1: Sub-component 1. Priority targeted interventions for groups at high-risk: This
component comprised three activities: (i) targeted interventions to high-risk populations; (ii) STI
treatment; and (iii) condom promotion. Progress on these activities is as follows:


Targeted Interventions (TI) were the key strategy implemented under NACP 2. TIs were intended to
deliver a complete package of prevention services to high-risk groups, including SWs, MSM, IDUs
and bridge populations including truckers, migrant labor and street children. The package included:
(i) Behavior Change Communication (BCC); (ii) condom promotion through free distribution and
social marketing; and, (iii) treatment of Sexually Transmitted/Reproductive Tract Infections
(STI/RTI).


The first step was to map all high-risk groups. This was done in all states, micro-site maps were
drawn and estimates were validated through national consultations. Each NGO implementing a
TI completed a baseline assessment of the high-risk population in their area. The mapping was able to
provide estimates on the number and location of SWs, IDUs and MSMs. Although progress was
made, the expected coverage of 80% was not achieved (Table A) due to administrative problems in
several states in contracting enough TI and to the limitations in the capacity of those NGOs. The
estimated coverage of TI of different high-risk groups ranges from 6% to 46% (Table A).




                                                     30

             Table A: Estimated size and Coverage of High Risk Groups by NACO*
SR.NOHIGH RISK GROUPSESTIMATED SIZE**ESTIMATED***PERCENT COVERAGE
                                                          COVERAGE
1       Sex Workers               8,31,677 - 12,50,115        4,44,186            35% to 45 %
2       IDUs                        96,463 - 1,89,729          88,194                 46%
3       MSM                            23,52,113              1,26,883                6.%
4       Male sex workers                2,35,213
* Data does not include coverage of HRGs by Agencies like Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, ICHAAP, etc.
**Source: Mapping of HRGs conducted by SACS
*** Source: Consolidated CMIS reports December 2005


Despite the challenges, there has been a steady rise in the numbers of TIs over the past five years,
with more than half of TI projects located in the high prevalence states of Andhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Manipur and Nagaland:




Source: Data from NACO CMIS


Capacity Building of NGOs: A number of trainers and institutions have been identified to impart
managerial and technical training of NGOs. Training included visits to successful TI projects. Seven
regional workshops were conducted to assist the NGOs to improve the quality of the interventions. In
addition, NACO has identified seven Regional Research and Training Centers of the Ministry of
Social Justice and Empowerment (MSJE) to continually enhance the capacity of the NGOs. DFID
assisted the program by establishing a Resource Center for Sexual Health and HIV in New Delhi.
However, more needs to be done since the quality of TIs is variable (no systematic evaluation has
been conducted). Partners such as DfID and USAID provided technical support in their focus states,
however, such technical assistance has not been available to all states, and the quality of TIs has
suffered as a result.


Monitoring Systems: NACO developed a CMIS (Computerized Management Information System),
and data on TI are being monitored on a monthly basis. To guide the process, there are Central and
State Level Technical Advisory Committees. Partnership Forums of NGOs have been formed in
several states to assist SACS in participatory monitoring.




                                                   31

Since STI and HIV are linked behaviorally and epidemiologically, STI treatment is an important part
of the program. Quality STI services and condom promotion were used as the entry point for
prevention programs among vulnerable communities. STI services were provided as follows under
NACP 2:


STI Clinics: NACO supported the establishment of STI clinics up to district level hospitals. At
present, there is at least one STI clinic functioning in each district hospital in the country except at 11
newly formed districts, since no District Hospital has been established there yet. Despite this
expansion, only a small proportion of the total estimated number of STI is being treated at these
clinics; it is important to develop strategies to partner with the private sector to ensure better quality
of care, reporting, referral and follow-up of patients.


STI Services through Private Sector: Due to perceived lack of privacy, confidentiality and associated
stigma in seeking treatment from public sector health facilities, most STI patients seek management
of STIs from the private sector. NACO has focused on enhancing STI services through private
practitioners and SACS have organized training of private health providers, including doctors, nurses
and paramedics.


Collaboration between NACP with RCH II: Since both the RCH and NACP cover persons within the
sexually active age group (15-49) and the presence of STI/RTI enhances the risks of contacting HIV,
convergence of NACP with RCH program has been attempted. Based on the recommendations of the
Task Force set up for convergence of NACP and RCH programs, the STI program, so far limited up
to the district level, has been extended down to the primary care level. The package of HIV related
services including STI services have been expanded up to the Community Health Center and Primary
Health Center with the help of available manpower and infrastructure under the RCH program with
additional support from NACP. The additional support is in terms of providing training, laboratory
testing logistics, counseling and monitoring.


Since the inception of NACP, public provision and promotion of condoms has been done through the
Department of Family Welfare. There are currently over six manufacturers with a combined capacity
of over 2.5 billion condoms per annum. Condoms are distributed through free distribution (main
channel) and social marketing. Significant progress has been made on improving the quality of
condoms, with each batch tested by the manufacturer and in public laboratories. Condom distribution
figures increased substantially from 128 million pieces in 2002-03 to 394.78 million pieces in 2005-
06, which includes 325.87 million pieces under the Free Distribution Scheme and 68.90 million
pieces under the Social Marketing Scheme.


Component 1: Sub-component 2. Preventive interventions for the general community: Activities
under this sub-component include: (i) IEC; (ii) voluntary counseling and testing; and (iii) blood
safety. Progress on these activities is as follows:


(i) The IEC targets set for NACP 2 were: (i) to attain awareness of HIV among at least 90% of youth
and others in the reproductive age group; and (ii) to achieve condom use of 90% among high risk
populations such as SWs. In order to accomplish this, the IEC framework adopted a comprehensive
approach stressing awareness generation on the known routes of transmission, increasing condom
usage, provision of information regarding services like VCTC, PPTCT, ART, building a positive



                                                     32

environment for PLWHA, and dispelling stigma and discrimination. The IEC strategy was
implemented at two levels: the national level was responsible for designing policy and strategy,
framing guidelines for IEC activities for states and monitoring IEC activities undertaken by SACS;
the state level was responsible for the actual implementation of the strategy, including conducting a
Communication Needs Assessment (CNA), designing a state-specific IEC strategy, responding to
local priorities and communication in local languages. Major IEC activities included developing
source books on IEC/BCC, producing quality TV spots in collaboration with BBC World Trust as
well as infotainment serials.


The impact of the IEC activities was measured by a 2005 study conducted by BBC World Service
Trust in 17 states amongst 22,800 respondents, and shows the following change in knowledge,
attitudes and practice:


                 Awareness                    BBC WST KAP 2005 (%)BSS 2001 (%)
                                              Urban       Rural          Urban Rural
Heard of HIV AND AIDS                         75/89       64/82          89      72
Protection by use of condom                   73          63             73      54
Protection by having one faithful partner80               71             68      54


It is difficult to give a national figure for HIV awareness, since states use various definitions for
"awareness". The BBC WST KAP survey 2005 showed that 89% of the urban population and 82% of
the rural population had heard of HIV.


(ii) Voluntary Counseling and Testing Centers (VCTCs) were set up under NACP 2. The functions
of these centers were to:


     · Increase people's access to knowledge and understanding of HIV status on a voluntary basis
     · Facilitate early uptake of services for HIV positive and negative people
     · Provide tools for adoption of safe behavior
     · Increase awareness & information in communities
     · Reduce stigma and discrimination


The first VCTC was started in 2000 in Delhi and there are currently 1,114 VCTCs working across all
states. This exceeds the project goal of 900. Of the 603 districts in the country, 576 districts have a
VCTC. Between January 2003 and December 2005, 1,662,245 clients were counseled at VCTCs, and
of them 236,498 tested positive (2.2%). However, utilization of services (client/day) has not been
optimal. In 2003, around 30% of clients were voluntary walk-in clients and 70% were referred from
within the hospital setting, mainly for pre-operative screening. With less than half a million people
tested per year convergence with other programs seems justified. Convergence would also allow for
VCTC to become available at PHC level facilities.




                                                    33

                                        Performance of VCTCs
                                                                            2003     2004    2005
No. of persons tested for HIV AND AIDS at VCTC during the period            7,85,6584,38,0144,38,573
No. of persons testing sero-positive after undergoing the 3 specified tests1,13,39261,532 61,574
% of persons testing sero-positive after undergoing the 3 specified tests 14.51% 14.06% 11.93%
No. of women tested (VCTC & PPTCT)                                          6,73,0227,85,6584,38,573
No. of women found positive                                                 90,155 1,12,53861,574


iii) Ensuring blood safety was an important part of NACP 1. Under NACP 2, NACO supported the
installation of 42 additional Blood Component Separation Units; and modernization of all major
blood banks at state and district levels. 255 major blood banks, 835 district level blood banks have
been modernized and seven state of the art blood banks were established in identified under-served
areas. NACO also focused on enhancing awareness of the need to access safe blood and blood
products; and procured equipment, test kits and reagents for the blood banks. New programs have
been introduced, such as the accreditation of blood banks, External Quality Assessment Scheme
(EQAS) for HIV testing, workshops on Appropriate Clinical Use of Blood for Clinicians and Quality
Management Program in Blood Transfusion Services and Promotion of Voluntary Non-Remunerated
Blood Donation. Government of India adopted a National Blood Policy formulated by NACO in
April 2002. Subsequently, an Action Plan on Blood Safety has been finalized and adopted.


In line with a Supreme Court judgment (1992), National and State Blood Transfusion Councils were
registered as societies in 1996, and supported by NACO. At state levels, these councils maintain
oversight over voluntary blood donation and the appropriate clinical use of blood, training and
manpower development, and supervision of blood transfusion services.


Although there has been a gradual increase in voluntary blood donation; it remains less than 50% of
all blood required in many states. The proportion of blood units collected through voluntary blood
donations throughout the country in 2004 was 52.2% and 53.4% for 2005. Some states like West
Bengal (86.3%), Maharashtra (84.6%), Tamil Nadu (72.7%), Chandigarh (72.3%), Gujarat (65%) and
Himachal Pradesh (63.3%) have done reasonably well by comparison. In some of these states, SACS
have undertaken activities with NGOs to promote public awareness of the need for blood donation.


Component 1: Sub-component 3. Low-cost AIDS care: The level of provision of treatment for
opportunistic infections (OI) remains far lower than the original target. Reportedly, many HIV-
positive patients seek care for OI in general out-patient clinics and go unrecorded.


UNICEF provides support for Prevention of Parent to Child transmission (PPTCT), along with
funding from the GFATM-Round II. The program has been implemented since May 2005 for a period
of five years. The program plans to establish 444 PPTCT centers by the end of the project. The
PPTCT package consists of (i) increasing awareness of HIV risk factors; (ii) IEC; (iii) condom
promotion; (iv) nutritional counseling, including breastfeeding; and (v) management and treatment of
STI. In addition, HIV counseling/testing, NVP prophylaxis and ART is given to women, their
partners and children free of cost. However, data for 2003-2005 show that only about half of the HIV-
positive women and their babies are given Neverapine at the time of delivery. The figure might be
explained by the fact that many women deliver at home or in a private clinic.




                                                   34

Other care and support components include: (a) post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) drugs have been
provided to all States; (b) 85 community care centers established and run by NGOs; (c) an ART
program which is being rolled out, albeit slowly; and (d) 70 drop-in centers established in high
prevalence States.


Component 2: Strengthen Capacity


Component 2: Sub-component 1. Institutional strengthening. This component includes: (i)
establishment of State AIDS Control Societies in all states; (ii) strengthening leadership capacity at
NACO; (iii) improve surveillance; (iv) conduct training; (v) build capacity for monitoring; and (vi)
increase capacity for research. Progress on these activities is as follows:


(i) State AIDS Control Societies (SACS) have been established in all states; however, their
performance has been variable between states. The presence of the SACS has increased ownership
and accountability of the program at the state level, but there are several management issues of
concern in the functioning of the SACS. SACS often have a vacancy rate of 20% or higher. There is
also high turnover of key staff, particularly the PD. There were also considerable vacancies at NACO.
The position of Joint Director IEC was recently filled. The design of NACP 3 will require a thorough
review of the skills and staffing requirements and the need for institutional and systems strengthening
at NACO and SACS.


(ii) NACO: While NACO has increasingly taken on a leadership role there are still issues that have
not yet been fully addressed. The role of NACO in supervision and quality control of the program
needs to be strengthened considerably. Although all SACS are in place, not all have the capacity to
run an efficient program. NACO needs to provide continual follow-up and support in such cases, so
as to upgrade the capacity of the SACS to implement the program.


(iii) Expansion and improvement of the surveillance system has been achieved by increasing the
number of sites from 180 in 1998 to around 750 sites, including antenatal clinics, STI clinics, and
sites of TI and several TB clinics. HIV data will also be obtained from army recruits, while the DHS
2006 will include taking blood samples, thus providing household data on HIV prevalence for men
and women of reproductive age. Routine testing for HIV in lab samples is under consideration.
Estimates of the number of HIV positive people in India are now between 5.2 and 5.7 million, which
will mean a dramatic increase in the coming years of people living with AIDS. An assessment of the
present surveillance system and strengthening requirements will be carried out during preparation for
NACP 3.


One of the challenges faced by the surveillance system is of how representative the sites are of the
most-at-risk population (FSW, MSM and IDU) and other populations. The expert committee
established by NACO on surveillance and estimation of prevalence, under the Chairmanship of the
Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research, has recommended that more sites for most-at-
risk population groups across the country need to be established. The number of sites will be
increased, with an additional 435 sentinel sites proposed among the most at-risk groups.




                                                   35

Behavior Sentinel Surveillance (BSS) was conducted in 2001 to collect baseline data on knowledge
of HIV and risk behavior among core risk groups and general populations. The end line BSS is to be
initiated shortly. In addition, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat,
Maharashtra and Orissa have conducted mid-line BSS.


(iv) Training was to be provided to all health care providers under NACP 2. Orientation training was
provided to all categories of health workers; while specialized training was provided to Laboratory
Technicians and those handling ART, counseling, and PPTCT. NACO issued guidelines for
conducting the training based on financial norms. SACS have organized the training courses through
mobiles training teams after completing training of the trainers.


State Health Administration has been given responsibility and authority to organize training programs
based on an action plan. The strategy consists of Training of the Core Trainers to develop a pool of
resource persons at state and district level for various categories of trainees. SACS report quarterly to
NACO on the type of training, category of manpower trained etc. The target for training during 2005-
06 was to train 100,000 staff. The number of staff trained during 2005-06 (through December 2005)
was 88,954 (88.9%) with 780,000 people trained in total from 2000 through December 2005.


(v) Monitoring and Evaluation: Concurrent M&E was designed for NACP 2. As part of the Three
Ones, it is planned that a Nationwide Strategic Information Management System (SIMS) (including
monitoring and evaluation) will be implemented under NACP 3. In addition, the M&E mechanism
undertook several activities in accordance with the PIP: (i) trained NACO staff and health specialists
in evidence based health program management: five regional workshop conducted during 2003-2004
for Project Directors and M&E in-charge of all SACS/MACS for Evidence Based Management
Program, (ii) conducted baseline, midterm and final evaluation, (iii) conduct the Annual Performance
Review (APER), and (iv) conducted the National Performance Review (NPR) under National AIDS
Control Board.


(vi) Research: NACP 2 designed a network of 12 Technical Resource Groups (TRGs) composed of
experts from across the country to conduct research and analysis on key areas of interest. These TRGs
were not made operational due to disagreements on the most effective way of deploying their
expertise. In the absence of the TRGs, there was not consistent technical assistance to the states on
developing, refining and scaling up technical paradigms or to improve their knowledge base. States
with external assistance from various donor agencies (notably DfID and USAID) have been fortunate
in receiving technical assistance through those agencies. It is vital that all states have access to such
expertise in order to improve the quality and content of programming. Some independent research
initiatives were taken up under NACP 2 including HIV vaccine research in collaboration with IAVI,
and research into microbicides. There are another 13 NACO supported biomedical and socio-
behavioral research studies.


Component 2: Sub-component 2. Inter-sectoral collaboration. During NACP 2, the program was
successful in developing strong links with the Department of Education, Ministry of Human Resource
Development and with school AIDS programs run by the Department, in place in all states. The
program also developed significant links with the Ministry of Home Affairs and initiated programs
with the Ministry of Surface Transport in the railways, Ministry of Labor with the Employees State
Insurance and Ministry of Tourism. An inter-ministerial committee was formed under the



                                                     36

chairmanship of the Minister of Human Resources, involving ministries such as Railways, Labor,
Steel, Social Justice and Empowerment, Defense, Youth Affairs, Home Affairs etc. The Government
also constituted a National Council on AIDS (NCA) with the Prime Minister as the chairman. This
council comprises 31 Ministers, seven Chief Ministers from three different categories of states and 15
representatives from civil society. The objective of the council is to mainstream HIV in all Ministries
and Departments, to implement a multi-sectoral response to HIV with a special focus on youth and
the work force and review inter-sectoral commitment. The council will meet once a year to review
progress on the multi-sectoral response/mainstreaming process and partnerships. The first meeting
was in February 2006, when they endorsed the HIV plans for 26 Ministries, approved the strategies
proposed to scale-up the media efforts and the strategies to involve the corporate sector, faith based
organizations and NGOs. To intensify the mainstreaming efforts further, the Prime Minister has
constituted a sub-committee comprising of 18 Ministers/Ministries, which will meet from time to
time.




                                                  37

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analyses were undertaken during project preparation. The direct
costs of the project over the period 1999-2004 were estimated at US$ 189 million (total investment
cost of the project was US$ 230 million), given the expected disbursement profile, and discounted at
8% per year. The direct benefits were estimated based on the reduction in HIV infections, and
consequent reduction in treatment costs and avoidable deaths.


Based on a dynamic computer model prepared for the project, it was estimated that there would be an
additional 4.2 million HIV infections in the period 1999-2004 in the absence of the project; project
interventions, even if only 50% successful, were expected to reduce this number to 3.7 million i.e.
564,000 infections would be averted due to the project. Given this, the direct costs averted within the
public sector due to the project yielded a benefit cost ratio of 1.03:1. If the private sector was
included, total direct costs averted during the period 1999-2004 were estimated as having a NPV of
US$ 512 million, yielding a benefit-cost ratio of 2.79:1. If the indirect costs of foregone wages and
costs of treatment were to be included, or if the timeframe were extended beyond the immediate
project period, the benefit-cost ratio would rise even further.


Due to the absence of reliable baseline figures, projections of the course the HIV epidemic might take
in India were difficult, and the above calculation was based on the following assumptions:


    · Annual contacts of clients with SWs is 50 (approximately one per week), with about 20% of
         men seeking SW services at any one time;
    · 67% of SW client contacts were unprotected by condoms, with a female to male risk of
         acquiring HIV of 0.002;
    · On average, an HIV infected individual would infect less than one partner;
    · Two million SWs, two million infected clients and one million infected non-SW or non-
         clients;


In fact, the total number of infections went up from 3.86 million in 2000 to 5.21 million in 2005 an
increase of 1.35 million*; this is well below the with- and without-project scenarios that had been
predicted during project preparation. Unfortunately, due to the absence of a control group, it is not
possible to estimate the number of infections averted; and thereby calculate the actual benefit-cost
ratio of the project.


Economic justification for the project was also based on the limited involvement of the private sector
and market failure in this regard. Due to the public good nature of preventive interventions against
HIV, and the marginalized groups affected, there was very limited incentive for the private sector to
get involved. This necessitated a largely public sector response; more so since the stigma attached to
being perceived as an AIDS clinic would cause the private sector to offload their patients onto the
public system. Equity concerns also argued for a public response: a beneficiary survey undertaken
during project preparation indicated that the average income of AIDS patients was about $45 per
month, and average duration of education was only five years.




                                                    38

The cost-effectiveness of six major project interventions was also estimated; assumptions were made
in these calculations based on knowledge of such interventions implemented in India and
internationally. The results are summarized in the table below: **


                              Summary of cost-effectiveness analysis
                       HIV       Infant HIV Program cost          Cost per    Cost per       HIV
                    infections     averted      over 5 years         HIV       DALY       prevalence
                  averted after     after 5                       infection    saved     after 5 years
                      5 years       years                          averted
Sex worker       5,610,000       160,000     $298,560,000       $53           $2.66     0.8%
intervention
STI              3,230,000       90,000      $780,000,000       $47           $2.35     1.1%
management
High risk men 5,610,000          160,000     $1,887,000,000 $308              $15.42    0.8%
VCTC             3,520,000       110,000     $782,631,570       $199          $9.96     1.0%
Youth            3,520,000       110,000     $5,203,687,500 $1,324            $66.20    1.0%
interventions
MCTC             350,000         350,000     $898,800,000       $2,568        $128.40   1.5%


The interventions emphasized by the project - sex worker interventions, STI management, high-risk
men and VCTCs - were the most cost-effective. Although MCTC is less cost-effective than
intervening upstream in the infection chain, with the availability of new technologies as well as
funding sources for this program, NACO did take up a large-scale MCTC intervention. Here again, it
is not possible to estimate the number of HIV infections averted by any particular intervention with
the available data. However, estimates are available of HIV prevalence in various sub-populations,
that could be compared to predicted figures above:


                           % HIV infection in various sub-populations
                                                      2000 2001 2002 2003 2004
                    Clients attending STI clinics     1.44 1.37      1.44   1.49  1.33
                    Women attending ANC clinics 1.75 1.91            2.36   3.48  3.60
                    Injecting drug users              0.04 0.03      0.03   0.01  0.01
                    Female sex workers                                      0.07  0.14


As can be seen, prevalence amongst STI clinic attendees was at 1.33% at the end of five years of
intervention, close to the 1.1% predicted by the analysis; amongst FSWs, it was 0.14%, much lower
than the 0.8% predicted.


* HIV/AIDS Epidemiological Surveillance and Estimation Report for 2005; NACO; April 2006.
** Annex 5, Table 1; Project Appraisal Document, NACP 2.




                                                  39

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


            Names                      Title            Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Anuschka Alvarez von Gustedt Operations Analyst     SASHP      Operations
Ian T. Anderson              Sr Economist           SASHP      Economist
                             Private Sector
Ramendra N. Basu                                    FPDKM
                             Development Spec.
Mam Chand                    Sr Procurement Spec.   SARPS      Procurement
Gertrude Cooper              Program Assistant      SASHD      Assistant
Kathleen Finn                Consultant             AFTH2      Operations
                             Lead Public Health
Salim J. Habayeb                                    LCSHH      Public Health
                             Specialist
Hiroko Imamura               Sr Counsel             LEGMS      Lawyer
Dean T. Jamison              Consultant             HDNHE      Health Economist
Prabhat K. Jha               Consultant             LCSHH      Task Team Leader
Laura M. Kiang               Operations Officer     SASHD      Operations
                                                               Financial
William B. Marke             Division Manager       LOAG2
                                                               Management
Julie Mittman                Consultant             LCSES
Jane Mukira                  Program Assistant      SASHD      Assistant
                                                               Financial
Rajat Narula                 Senior Finance Officer LOAG2
                                                               Management
Tawhid Nawaz                 Operations Adviser     HDNOP      Economist
Son Nam Nguyen               Sr Health Spec.        AFTH1      Public Health
M. Kent Ranson               Consultant             SASHD      Public Health
Shreelata Rao-Seshadri       Consultant             SASHD      Social Development
Maj-Lis A. Voss              Consultant             HDNSP      Operations
Ayda Aysun Yurekli           Consultant             ECSHD
Supervision/ICR
Nina Anand                   Program Assistant      SASHD      Assistant
Asha Bhagat                  Consultant             SARFM
Mam Chand                    Sr Procurement Spec.   SARPS      Procurement
Mariam Claeson               Program Coordinator    SASHD      Public Health
Phoebe Folger                Operations Analyst     SASHD      Operations
Joana Godinho                Sr Health Spec.        LCSHH      Peer Reviewer
                                                               Financial
                             Sr Financial
Mohan Gopalakrishnan                                SARFM      Management
                             Management Spec



                                             40

                               Lead Public Health
Salim J. Habayeb                                        LCSHH             Task Team Leader
                               Specialist
Roselind R. Hari               Team Assistant           SASHD             Assistant
Peter F. Heywood               Consultant               EASHD             Public Health
                               Lead Public Health
Cornelis P. Kostermans                                  SASHD             Task Team Leader
                               Specialist
Patricio V. Marquez            Lead Health Specialist   ECSHD             Peer Reviewer
Isabel Noguer Zambrano         Consultant               LCSHH
Kelechi O. Ohiri               Young Professional       YPP               Public Health
Om Prakash                     Consultant               SARPS             Procurement
Meera Priyadarshi              Sr Nutrition Spec.       SASHD             Nutrition
Hnin Hnin Pyne                 Sr Operations Off.       WBIRC             Public Health
Sandra Rosenhouse              Sr. Health Spec.         SASHD             Task Team Leader
Bernhard Schwartlander         Adviser                  AFTHV             M&E
Suneeta Singh                  Sr Public Health Spec.   SASHD             Task Team Leader
K. Sudhakar                    Sr Health Spec.          SASHD             Task Team Leader
                                                                          Environmental
Ruma Tavorath                  Environmental Spec.      SASES
                                                                          Safeguards


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived        IP                 DO            Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   09/21/1999          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           0.00
2   12/27/1999          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           0.00
3   03/31/2000          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           5.00
4   11/23/2000          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           26.03
5   06/25/2001          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           41.36
6   12/20/2001          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           52.31
7   06/27/2002          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           79.05
8   12/26/2002          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           86.15
9   06/28/2003          Satisfactory  Satisfactory           100.15
10 12/01/2003           Satisfactory  Satisfactory           111.19
11 06/04/2004           Satisfactory  Satisfactory           134.31
12 12/08/2004           Satisfactory  Satisfactory           141.20
13 05/19/2005           Satisfactory  Satisfactory           158.01
14 10/24/2005           Satisfactory  Satisfactory           178.79
15 04/10/2006           Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory 193.07




                                               41

(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY97                                                         0.00
                     FY98                                                      183.00
                     FY99                                                      275.00
                     FY00                                     1                   1.43
                     FY01                                                         0.00
                     FY02                                                         0.00
                     FY03                                                         0.00
                     FY04                                                         0.00
                     FY05                                                         0.00
                     FY06                                                        -0.05
                     FY07                                                         0.00
                                     Total:                   1                459.38
Supervision/ICR
                     FY98                                                         0.00
                     FY99                                                         4.00
                     FY00                                    62                164.44
                     FY01                                    32                 81.79
                     FY02                                    27                 55.11
                     FY03                                    28                 84.41
                     FY04                                    39                147.20
                     FY05                                    37                139.18
                     FY06                                    35                155.41
                     FY07                                     2                 12.00
                                     Total:                 262                843.54




                                         42

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                       Satisfactory            Government:       Moderately Satisfactory
Entry:
                                               Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                               Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
                       Satisfactory                              Satisfactory
Performance:                                   Performance:




                                              43

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

N/A




                                         44

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

N/A




                                     45

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The borrower's full report is in Annex 13.


Comments from NACO on the Draft ICR:


The ICR has captured most of the critical issues quite comprehensively. A few minor observations
and suggestions:


   1. Reconsider the reference to a 'person dependant system' in the assessment of the system of
       financing since it is heavily managed by the financial rules and regulations of the
       Government and therefore are not "person dependent";
   2. Ensure consistency in the use of number of infected persons in India. The official figure that
       we follow is 5.2 million whereas the UNAIDS has estimated 5.7 million, which we are still in
       the process of examining.
   3. The draft of BSS 2006 is ready but is pending peer review. You may like to consider using
       that data stating that it is tentative and putting them in your table on page 36 of draft.
       Accordingly you may have to change the statement at page 20 stating that the BSS is yet to
       take off.
   4. The project period of WB is 1999-2006 instead of 2004. The outlay for NACP III is US$2.5
       billion instead of US$1.5 billion USD, which of course includes sources outside the budget,
       such as Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, etc. We are also seeking an IDA contribution of
       US$500 million. Therefore you may like to indicate a range of US$250-500 million rather
       than US$250 million.




                                                    46

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     47

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

  · AF Ferguson & Co. 2006. Report on Developing Financial Management Assessment Plan
     (draft)
  · Global Procurement Consultants Ltd. 2006. Procurement Capacity Assessment of NACO and
     other Implementing Agencies under NA CP 3 (draft)
  · Kumar R, Jha P et. al. Trends in HIV-1 in young adults in south India from 2000 to 2004: a
     prevalence study, Lancet 2006; 3 67: 1164-1172
  · NACO, MOHWF, Government of India. 1999. National AIDS Control Project: Phase 2,
     National Project Implementation Plan
  · NACO, MOHFW, Government of India. 2006. HIV/AIDS Epidemiological Surveillance &
     Estimation Report for the Year 2005
  · World Bank. 1997. India Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Report No: 17241
  · World Bank. 1997. Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic.
  · World Bank. 1998. Project Concept Document (PCD) India Second National HIV/AIDS
     Control Project.
  · World Bank. 1999. Project Appraisal Document: India Second National HIV/AIDS Control
     Project. Report No: 18918-IN
  · World Bank. Project Status Reports (PSRs), 1999-2004
  · World Bank. Implementation Status and Results (ISRs). 2005-2006
  · World Bank. Aide-Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports. 1999-2006
  · World Bank/OED. 2003. Project Performance Assessment Report: India National AIDS
     Control Project. Report No: 26224
  · World Bank. 2006. AIDS in South Asia: Understanding and Responding to a Heterogeneous
     Epidemic




                                             48

Annex 13: Borrower's ICR

Introduction



Recognizing the need to prepare itself against the world wide spread of HIV/AIDS and also reporting
of HIV/AIDS cases in the country, Government of India initiated the National AIDS Control
Programme (NACP) in 1987. In the fledgling years, the program activities focused on generation of
public awareness, introduction of blood safety measures, surveillance activities and reinforcement of
programme management capacities in the most affected states. World Bank assisted the Phase I of the
National AIDS Control Program for a period of seven years (1992 ­ 1999). Assistance in form of the
Second National HIV/AIDS Control project was extended to the National Program by World Bank
initially for a period of five years, i.e. from 31st July 1999 to 31st July 2004, with the period from 1st
April 1999 to 31st July 1999 covered under retroactive financing. The project, however, was extended
till 31st March 2006 i.e. to cover a period of seven years. The total IDA credit extended under the
project was SDR 140.82 million (US$ 211.37 million at exchange rate of 1 XDR = 1.50101000 US$
as on 16 May 2006).


The first project helped in defining the implementation structure at the State level i.e. the State AIDS
Control Societies (SACS), which succeeded the State AIDS Control Cells (SACCs). Many states
adopted the SACS model in the final year of the first project itself. However, adoption of the SACS
model was made a condition for participation in the second project.


The first project also successfully piloted the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS activities
aimed at increasing awareness and reaching out to high risk groups. The capacity building of NGOs
and decentralization of the responsibility for selection and funding NGOs provided another platform
for the second project to build on.


Objectives


In line with the objectives of the Phase II of the National AIDS Control Programme, the second
World Bank project had the following two key objectives:


     1. To reduce the spread of HIV infection in India.
     2. To strengthen India's capacity to respond to HIV/AIDS on a long-term basis.


Operationally, the Phase II project strived to achieve the following benchmarks by the end of year
2004.


     (i)      To stabilize the infection levels of HIV/AIDS in the general population both in high and
              low prevalence States;
     (ii)     To reduce the blood borne transmission of HIV to less than 1% of total transmissions;
     (iii)    To attain awareness level of not less than 90% among the youth and others in
              reproductive age group; and
     (iv)     To achieve condom use of not less than 90% among high-risk categories like Commercial
              Sex Workers, Truckers etc.




                                                      49

Strategies adopted under Phase II project


The programme has five distinct components with specific strategies under each of them.


   (i)   Reducing the HIV transmission amongst poor and marginalized sections of the community
         at high risk of infection, by (a) targeted interventions amongst marginalized sections of the
         society at the highest risk of HIV infection and transmission such as sex workers, transport
         workers, injecting drug users, men who have sex with men, migrant workers, industrial
         workers vulnerable to HIV infection, street children, slum population; (b) control of
         sexually transmitted diseases through syndromic management at the peripheral public
         health institutions and through outreach services; and (c) condom promotion to prevent the
         sexual transmission of HIV.


   (ii)  Reducing the spread of HIV amongst general population, which is perceived to be at a
         lower risk; by (a) reducing blood based transmission by modernizing the blood transfusion
         services in the country for greater availability and rational use of blood, by ensuring
         mandatory screening of HIV, Hepatitis `B' and `C', malaria and syphilis and by developing
         technical manpower; (b) Information, Education and Communication campaigns to raise
         awareness levels; and (c) promotion of voluntary counselling and testing for HIV.


   (iii) Strengthen the institutions responsible for implementation of the programme by (a)
         increasing the quantity, quality and timeliness of surveillance systems for HIV, sexually
         transmitted infections, behaviour patterns and social determinants in all parts of the country
         so as to enable evidence based planning and response; (b) improving technical and
         managerial capacities of State AIDS Control Societies for the effective implementation of
         the programme; (c) training of medical and para-medical personnel in management of
         HIV/AIDS patients; and (d) supporting high level peer reviewed competitive and rational
         Research & Development.


   (iv) Delivery of community based low cost care for people living with HIV/AIDS, by (a)
         providing drugs for treatment of opportunistic infections including Tuberculosis; (b)
         antiretroviral post exposure prophylaxis to medical and para-medical workers in the event
         of an accidental exposure of HIV/AIDS while treating HIV/AIDS patients; (c) providing
         single dose Nevirapine to HIV positive pregnant mothers and her baby attending antenatal
         clinics in 6 high prevalence states namely Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka,
         Maharashtra, Manipur and Nagaland; and (d) encouraging people living with HIV/AIDS to
         form their networks/self help groups in order to facilitate care and support to people living
         with HIV/AIDS.


   (v)   Ensuring multisectoral collaboration with public, private and voluntary sectors for a broad
         based response to the epidemic. At present, over 700 targeted intervention projects in the
         country are being run through Non-Government Organisations. Besides, NGOs are being
         involved in running community care centers and school AIDS education programme.




                                                   50

Achievement of Project Objectives


The achievements of the Phase II of National AIDS Control Programme, component-wise are as
follows:


Targeted Interventions: Under the Targeted Interventions among the high-risk groups, it was
envisaged to provide comprehensive and integrated set of services for various high risk groups i.e.
Commercial Sex Workers (CSWs); Injecting Drug Users (IDUs) and Men having Sex with Men
(MSM) and for bridge population (Truckers, Migrant workers, street children) to reduce the spread of
HIV. A participatory mapping exercise has been completed by all States to estimate size of high-risk
populations and identification of sites. As on March 2006, out of total 1088, 618 Targeted
Intervention Projects are World Bank supported; which include 108 (186) CSWs, 109 (114) among
IDUs, 18 (30) among MSM, 75 (102) among truckers, 45 (172) among migrant workers, 12 (23)
among street children, 7 (45) among prison inmates and 246(416) composite interventions are being
implemented by NGOs across India against a plan of 1447 over the Phase ­ II project period. 35% -
44% of CSWs, 46% of IDUs and 6% of MSM are presently covered through these projects. A
continuous process has been evolved to improve the capacities of NGOs to implement Targeted
Intervention projects through regional training workshops.


The Computerised Management Information System (CMIS) is in place to collect and process
information of TI projects through standardised indicators. During the Phase ­ II project, two external
evaluations of TIs have been conducted. The recommendations of these evaluations have been shared
with all stakeholders and necessary actions have been initiated to address the issues highlighted by
these evaluations like capacity building of NGOs and minimising funding delays etc.


Management of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) has been considered as an important
prevention strategy for reducing the spread of HIV/AIDS. Quality STI services by establishing and
supporting 922 Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) clinics have been ensured to provide
management of STDs as per the national guidelines. NACO ensures regular supply of STD drugs in
each STD clinics through State AIDS Control Societies. A Facility Survey of STD Clinics has been
conducted in the country. As reported in the Facility Survey for STDs, support has been provided to
SACS to improve the physical infrastructure, logistics; regular and timely supply of drugs along with
placement of trained medical, para medical and laboratory personnel has been ensured. As envisaged
in the project, NACO is providing support for this component up to district level and tertiary level,
while the Department of Family Welfare is providing essential support below district level through
RCH project.


Condom Promotion strategy of NACO is committed to promote condom use by improving
accessibility, availability and affordability of good quality condoms. Over the years, efforts have been
made to promote condom use through existing mechanisms of Department of Family Welfare.
Manufacturing capacity for production of quality condoms has increased by over 2.5 billion condoms
per annum. During the project, about 394 million condoms have been procured every year through
Department of Family Welfare and supplied to the States for free distribution and about 6-7 million
for social marketing scheme.




                                                    51

NACO organized an annual Family Health Awareness Campaign (FHAC), through which,
population in the 15-49 year age group was sensitized to seek services for diagnosis and treatment of
Reproductive Tract Infections (RTI)/Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs). Essentially, during one
fortnight in each year, the human resource capital from medical and health department and other
social sectors is deployed to disseminate messages of the need to adopt and maintain health seeking
behavior for management of RTI/STI through an intensive campaign. FHAC has shown to create
increased demand for early detection and treatment of RTI/STI through strong referral and provision
of drugs for treatment.


Voluntary Counseling and Testing Centers (VCTC) is a new initiative in the AIDS Control
Programme. During this phase, a process was initiated by which an individual undergoes pre-test HIV
counseling and to explore his/her risk of HIV infection and exercise an informed choice regarding
HIV testing. 1114 VCTCs are working in the country in 576 districts while 27 districts of Jammu &
Kashmir, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa are still not having a VCTC. Currently, the VCTCs
are established in tertiary and secondary level health care facilities and among CHCs in High
prevalence States, where about 1.6 million attendees are visiting these centers annually. Around 30%
of the clients are voluntary walk-in clients and 70% were referred from within the hospital settings in
these clinics.


Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission (PPTCT) was initially being supported through this
project. With the introduction of the Global Fund Round II project, the resources made available
through the Round II project are being used for implementation of this important component. The
package of services of HIV counseling, testing and Nevirapine prophylaxis to mother and baby pair is
being provided through 804 PPTCT centers in the country. On an average about 2.3 million antenatal
clinic attendees were registered in PPTCT clinics, out of them 2.2 million have been counseled, 1.9
million have undergone HIV testing and 22,926 were found to be positive for intervention since the
start of the services from year 2003 onwards.


Information, Education & Communication: The National IEC strategy has been developed based
on Communication Needs assessment done by each State/UT at the start of Phase II. Inputs from BSS
2001 and other key research studies were also taken during this exercise. The objective of IEC
strategy, in addition to raising awareness levels and promoting behavioral changes also includes
mobilizing every section of the society to integrate into their ongoing activities, the HIV/AIDS
messages, training of care provides in HIV communication and create a supportive environment. This
has been achieved through use of mass media and advocacy at various levels. NACO's
communication strategy at the national level is primarily aimed at design of IEC material, policy
formulation, framing of guidelines for IEC activities and monitoring and supervision. While at the
SACS level advocacy, creation of supportive environment, removal of stigma & discrimination, better
access to services and launching of multi media campaigns are the important themes for IEC.


School AIDS Education Programme: As the young people are most vulnerable to HIV infection, the
School AIDS Education Programme (SEAP) aims at an intervention on the basis of module "learning
for life" to reinforce existing positive behavior among students, promoting abstinence and delay
sexual debut till marriage. The activity aims at covering all the Secondary & Senior Secondary
schools. Out of present 1,44,409 government secondary and senior secondary schools in the country,
76% schools have been covered including training of 1,52,000 teachers. Of the 109750 schools



                                                   52

covered during project period, 74,292 were covered with support from WB funds while 35,458 were
covered out of DFID funds.


1097, a toll free National Help Line has been operationalised in 80 cities across the country. The
purpose of the help line is to provide access to information and counseling on HIV/AIDS related
issues. This is a computerized four digit number "1097" with the interactive voice response system
(IVRS) linked with telephone hot line which enables people to retain anonymity and yet gain access
to correct information.


Blood Safety: In order to ensure access to safe blood and blood products, NACO has supported the
installation of 42 additional Blood Component Separation Units in different parts of the country
during Phase II project. NACO is continuing to support modernization of all major blood banks at
state and district levels. 255 major blood banks, 835 district level blood banks were modernized and 9
out of 10 State of Art blood banks were established in identified under-served areas.


NACO supports the procurement of equipment, test kits and reagents as well as the running
expenditure for government/voluntary sector blood banks. New activities like Accreditation of blood
banks, External Quality Assessment Scheme (EQAS) for HIV testing, organizing workshops on
"Appropriate clinical use of blood" for clinicians and "Quality Management Programme in Blood
Transfusion Services" and "Promotion of Voluntary Non-Remunerated Blood Donation" have been
introduced during this phase.


A National Blood policy formulated by NACO was adopted by Government of India in April 2002.
Subsequently, a meticulous Action Plan on Blood Safety was finalized and adopted by government.


National and State Blood Transfusion Councils have been established to oversee voluntary blood
donation, appropriate clinical use of blood, training and manpower development, and supervision of
the Blood transfusion services in the State. Funds were allocated by these States to ensure
establishment of institutional arrangements for these councils.


In order to improve observance of standard operating procedures in blood banks, NACO conducts the
Quality Management Training Programmes. Workshops to train blood bank personnel and sensitize
state programme officers have been conducted to ensure application of systems for high quality
service delivery.


Blood collected from voluntary (non-remunerated) blood donors has reached to 51% as against 20%
at start of Phase II project. Some of the states like West Bengal (86.3%), Maharashtra (84.6%), Tamil
Nadu (72.7%), Chandigarh (72.3%), Gujarat (65%) and Himachal Pradesh (63.3%) has done
reasonably good work and has undertaken several activities to promote public awareness of the need
for blood donation.


People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLHAs) need a variety of health and social support, as their illness
progresses and Opportunistic Infections occur. For the management of such cases, NACO has
initiated a comprehensive package of Care & Support services by providing training to medical and
para medical services, provisioning of drugs for treatment of opportunistic infections in all public
sector hospitals, collaboration with revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme for early



                                                     53

diagnosis and treatment of HIV-TB co-infection, provisioning of funds for immediate management of
Post Exposure Prophylaxis, establishment of 122 Community Care Centers and roll out of free
Antiretroviral Therapy through identified hospitals in public sector. Drop in centers for PLHAs have
also been established which are run by registered organizations and networks of PLHAs to promote
positive living and improve their quality of life and to build up their capacity and skills to cope up
with the infection. This also ensures creating an enabling environment and to establish linkages with
existing health services.


Training: National AIDS Control Programme, Phase ­ II envisaged training of all health care
providers and other functionaries to improve their skills of HIV/AIDS management and providing
care and support services. A general integrated training programme has been developed for all
categories of health care providers along with specialized training on Antiretroviral Therapy,
Syndromic Management of STDs, supply of safe blood and blood products to the recipients,
counseling, laboratory services etc. National guidelines have been developed for conducting such
training programmes. About 88.9% of the health care providers under different categories have been
trained during Phase II project.


Research: In the past two decades, the research and development have significantly shaped our
understanding of the epidemic and management strategy. However, given the complexities, diversities
and the evolving nature of the epidemic in India, still lot requires to be done in this field. Significant
achievement on the research front was the `vaccine initiative' started during Phase II project. Two
vaccine candidates have been prepared as recommended by the panel of Indian experts, which are
presently being evaluated at National AIDS Research Institute Pune and TB Research centre,
Chennai. Phase I clinical trial of Adeno associated virus based Sub type ­ C vaccine which was
initiated in February, 2005 has been completed. Phase I human trial of Modified Vaccinia Ankara -
TBC M4" has started in January 2006.

India's evolving response to HIV/AIDS epidemic recognizes the impact of the epidemic on women.
Human microbicides are currently not available. Approximately, 20 drugs have been tested in Phase I
clinical trial, three in Phase II clinical trial and four in Phase III clinical trial. The efforts will take
another four-five years before safe, effective, acceptable and affordable microbicide for prevention of
HIV is available. NACO supported various research studies based on the priorities for bio-medical
and social behavioral aspect of research on HIV/AIDS.


Mainstreaming: NACO has undertaken a series of initiatives in collaboration with various
Ministries/Departments and the public sector undertakings and succeeded in making HIV/AIDS as
focused areas for certain key Departments like Education, Information & Broadcasting, Labour,
Women and Child Development, Defence, Home Affairs and Steel. NACO is allocating funds and
providing them initial support to mainstreaming HIV/AIDS activities in their ongoing programmes.


In order to reiterate Government's commitment to prevent the spread of HIV and facilitate a strong
multi-sectoral response, the Government has constituted National Council on AIDS with the
Honorable Prime Minister as the Chairman. The Council comprises of 31 Ministries and Departments
of Government of India. The Council will have regular meetings to ensure a strong multi-sectoral
partnership for HIV/AIDS.




                                                       54

Computerized Management Information System (CMIS): Under the Phase II project, an extremely
important feature is concurrent Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of the programme activities. A
CMIS has been established and is in place, which is providing continuous critical information through
identified reporting units to facilitate decision-making and taking corrective measures as and when
necessary. This will also ensure whether the progress made is satisfactory and in tune with the
envisaged project achievements. Presently, 6000 reporting units are feeding critical data across the
country to feed into the Computerized Management Information System. There is a need to increase
its spread to capture data from the private sector health providers also.


Project Finance Management Unit (PFMU) is also in place both at national and state level and is
providing all necessary inputs for financial management of the project.


Project Impact


In order to track progression of HIV epidemic in the country, programme has instituted a large scale
HIV Sentinel Surveillance system in 1994. The Sentinel Sites have been established in such a way
that the data is representative both geographically as well as risk group wise. Based on annual round
of Sentinel Surveillance - 2004, it is estimated that there are 5.134 million HIV infections in the
country across all states. The HIV epidemic in India is characterized by "heterogeneity". The areas,
which are severely affected as per the levels of HIV prevalence, have shown the impact of the
epidemic, not only on health delivery system, but also on socio-economic indices and fundamental
issues of human rights concerning People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLHAs). The estimated number of
5.21 million infections of 2005 is up from 3.5 million infections in 1998. Further, recent estimates
indicate that 39% of the infections are among women and 55% of infections are in rural areas.


By the end of April 2006, the cumulative number of reported AIDS cases was 1,22,515, out of which
35,005 were women. This data also indicates about 1/3 of reported AIDS cases were among young
people. The total AIDS deaths reported during this period is only 8350 cases. A large number of
deaths due to AIDS go unreported because of stigma, discrimination and lack of diagnosis.


The spread of HIV within the country is diverse between different regions, states and metropolitan
areas. The transmission route is pre-dominantly heterosexual (85.05%), except in North-Eastern
States where use of syringes and needles by Injecting Drug Users (IDUs) is the main route of HIV
transmission. The other routes of transmission by order of proportion includes perinatal (3.65%);
Infected Needles and Syringes by IDUs (2.33%); Unsafe Blood and Blood Products (2.02%) and
Unspecified as 6.4%.


Based on the HIV prevalence rates at the state level in different risk groups, the states are categorized
as High, Moderate and Low prevalence states. The low prevalence states are further classified into
"Highly Vulnerable" and "Vulnerable" on the basis of vulnerability like migration, weak health
infrastructure and size of population. The prevalence amongst general population, however, has not
any signs of upsurge since the start of Phase II project. This is substantiated by the fact that, over the
years, 85% to 90% of the Antenatal Sites have not shown any significant increase in HIV prevalence
among Antenatal Clinic attendees.




                                                    55

The Behavioural Surveillance Survey conducted as Baseline in 2001 have provided the extent of risk
behaviors both among General Population and High-risk Population, however, the trends of these
behaviors cannot be measured for want of such data of subsequent rounds.


At the state level, efforts have been made to collect data at regular intervals. Some of the salient trends
are indicated below.

    · In Tamil Nadu, over the years, "condom use" among Sex Workers with their clients has
         increased from 56% to 87%. The condom use with regular paid partners has increased from
         6.4% to 28%. The proportion of non-regular sex among truckers and helpers has decreased
         from 48% to 28%. The reported knowledge without misconception about HIV infection has
         increased among sex workers from 24% to 40%.
    · In Andhra Pradesh, knowledge on "consistent condom use" among Sex Workers has
         increased from 69% to 84% and among clients of Sex Workers from 69% to 91%. The
         condom use during last sex by paying clients has gone up from 80% to 94%.
    · In West Bengal, consistent condom use among Sex Workers has gone up from 75% to 95%
         among Brothel based Sex Workers, while among clients of Sex Workers, increase in condom
         use has been observed from 63.8% to 83.9%.


The impact of various IEC activities under the programme during Phase II project has been observed
by a study conducted by BBC World Service Trust. This has shown that awareness level among rural
population have increased from 72% to 82%; among urban population the levels are sustained at
about 90% and there is an increase noticed in condom use in rural population.


The very fact that the median HIV prevalence among antenatal women at the state level among high
prevalence states remained below 3% and in other states as below 1% shows that the objective of
"Phase II project of contending the prevalence levels on `above benchmarks' have been achieved.


Sustainability


The Phase II project provided the necessary support to expand the coverage after the initial period of
start-up investment and establishment of the program implementation structure during the Phase I of
the project. Support from the National Budget has also increased over the years. National Council on
AIDS under the chairmanship of Prime Minister has been set up with the objective of strengthening
the mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS in the various Government departments. The inter-sectoral support
component of the project has also assisted in enabling the capacities in the partners to sustain the
project on their own. Extended financial support for the project will, however, be required.


The project has helped in building sufficient technical capacity to sustain the existing level of
activities. Close to 8 lakh medical practitioners, para-medics, and others have been trained during the
Phase II project period. The training needs to be provided on a continued basis in order to ensure
quality of services. Private sector has to be appropriately covered to ensure wider coverage.


Managerial sustainability continues to be an issue in some of the states, especially with the expansion
of services envisaged in the future. Handholding and suitable policy interventions will be required.




                                                    56

Project Cost and Expenditure


The approved cost of the project was SDR 140.82 million (US$ 191m originally, US$ 211.37 million
at exchange rate of 1 XDR = 1.50101000 US$ as on 16 May 2006). The category wise expenditure
details are given at Annexure II. Over the project period, the project cost was restructured taking into
account the expenditure trends. There was lower expenditure under the Category `Civil Works',
`Goods/Veh/Lab Supply' and `STI and OI Medicines' while there was higher expenditure under
`Consultants/Training' and `Operating Cost'. The higher expenditure was due to the gradual
expansion and scaling up of the program, with mid course additions like PPTCT, introduction of the
ART program, etc. The yearly trend of expenditure over the period of the project may be seen at
Annexure II. The original expenditure was proposed over a period of five years. However, due to the
cap in National Plan Fund Outlay available through the National Budget, the amount available was
not allocated during the initial five year period, and, thus could not be spent. The expenditure had to
be stretched out over the seven year period.


Major Factors Affecting the Project


The progress on the project was slow in the initial years because of issues of managerial and
absorptive capacity. The number of states able to adhere to the program requirements and perform has
increased during the project period. There are states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, etc. which
continue to be a cause of concern and will need prolonged handholding. Continuing high turnover of
state level Project Directors in some important states resulted in limited continuity and variability in
performance across States. Capacity of NGOs and their lack of availability in some of the states
limited the expansion of the Targeted Interventions especially in Northern States.


Multiplicity of external donor agencies brings in expertise but also comes with transaction cost arising
out of different mandate and requirements, as well as areas of focus. Harmonizing the resources
available continues to be a challenge. The original projects in TIs have been handed over to agencies
like DFID, BMGF, etc. which may lead to believe that the performance under the sector is not up to
the mark.


Key Lessons Learned


There are a number of lessons, which need to be taken into consideration while designing the next
phase of the Programme:


Program Design and Management


1. The need for greater ownership of the program at the State level which can reduce the frequent
    changes in the senior programme managers' levels and also reduce the vacant positions in the
    SACS.
2. The need for strengthening of managerial and technical capacities of low performing SACS to
    enable them to harness the opportunities available due to decentralization and devolution of
    powers.
3. Development of an appropriate district level structure to enhance scaling up of the programme.
4. Greater integration with the mainstream health programmes to draw on the synergies and avoid
    the pitfalls of standalone vertical programmes.


                                                    57

Surveillance


1. AIDS mortality and under reporting are issues that deserve more attention as these have a bearing
    on the sero-surveillance data. This requires careful examination of available methodologies and
    choice of the best available method suited for the Indian context. Similarly, about 84% of
    transmission being sexual, it would be necessary to find out how much of this is caused by lower
    access by women and to what extent this could be due to greater practice of MSM. There are only
    3 sites in the country that conduct sero-surveillance on MSM although this number has now been
    revised. Until surveillance covered all the districts its results could not be representative.
2. One of the challenges the surveillance system in India is facing is the representativeness of the
    sites between most-at-risk population (FSW, MSM and IDU) and the other population. More
    number of sites for most-at-risk population groups across the country are needed. It is also
    required to improve the AIDS case and death reporting mechanism in the country using standard
    case definition.


Targeted Interventions


1. There was an expansion in the number of Targeted Interventions. The saturation of mapped HRG
    population is yet to be accomplished.
2. Differentiation between Targeted Interventions aimed at HRGs and Interventions aimed at
    Composite Groups may result in dilution of the affects of this important and effective component
    and the tendency has to be checked.
3. Interventions on MSM, IDU need to be expanded.


Prevention amongst General Population.


1. Condom promotion activities to increase coverage needs special emphasis.
2. Mainstreaming HIV/AIDS activities amongst various stakeholders needs to be scaled up
    especially amongst Government, youth and civil society organizations.


Bank's Performance


The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The project design had sufficient inbuilt flexibilities
to allow the State level societies to adapt the project to their requirements without going beyond the
framework laid down. The supervision missions mounted by the Bank, especially the MTR helped
provide the necessary remedial actions and modification of plans. Excellent cooperation existed
between the Bank staff and NACO during the implementation of the project.


Bank's support helped NACO develop the Computerized Project Finance Management System
(CPFMS), which contributed towards better program management. Procurement, however, remains a
lengthy process and needs streamlining at NACO level


Overall, the contribution of the Bank was valuable.




                                                    58

                                       Annexure I: Key Performance Indicators

                                                                   Measurement

        Indicators                 Baseline Value         End-of-Project Target Value          Achievements

                           Number or text      Date      Number or text      Date      Number or text      Date
 Project Development
        Objective
1. Reduce the rate of           0.70%       9-Nov-1999 <5% in high        31-Mar-2006      0.80%        31-Dec-2005
growth of HIV infections                                prevalence States
in India. (The reduction                                <3% in low
in the rate of HIV spread                               prevalence States
would be reflected in the
stabilization of the
annual percentage
increase of HIV
prevalence among
Antenatal clinic
attendees.)
2. Strengthen India's      Mapping,         9-Nov-1999 Mapping in 38      31-Mar-2006 Mapping in all    31 Mar 2006
capacity to respond to the Targeted                     States and                    States
epidemic. (to be           intervention                 territories                   completed, 1088
measured by several        expansion,                   completed, all                (731 ­ WB
indicators).               expansion of                 SACS                          funded) targeted
                           health based                 functioning with              interventions, 70
                           services--see                full staffing.                percent of staff
                           outcome                                                    on board.
                           indicators.


Intermediate outcome indicator(s)
1. Completion of                          0 9-Nov-1999                 38 31-Mar-2006                38 31-Mar-2006
participatory mapping of
groups at high risk.
2. Number of targeted                   157 9-Nov-1999    revised to 1432 31-Mar-2006             1088 31-Mar-2006
interventions
implemented to reach
high risk groups.

3. Percentage of           76 percent        31-Jul-2000            100% 31-Mar-2006 Urban 89%         31-June-2005
population aware of        overall, range                                             Rural 82%
HIV/AIDS                   22-99%                                                     (BBC World
                                                                                      Service Trust)
4. Number of sites                       62 9-Nov-1999                900 31-Mar-2006             1114 31-Mar-2006
offering Voluntary
Counseling and Testing
(VCT)

5. Number of STD                        504 9-Nov-1999                757 31-Mar-2006               922 31-Mar-2006
clinics established.
6. Number of Prevention                   0 9-Nov-1999                600 31-Mar-2006               804 31-Mar-2006
of Parent to Child
Transmission Centers
established




                                                           59

                                       Annexure II: Project Costs and Financing

                                                                                            (in INR)
       YEAR           1999-2000   2000-01    2001-02       2002-03      2003-04  2004-05    2005-06    Total


Category-I
Civil Works            78685309   13691478   12848741      12751895      9900351  11157232 13997325   153032331
Total                  78685309   13691478   12848741      12751895      9900351  11157232 13997325   153032331


Category II
Furniture & Other
Supplies               21691830   23718444   10578516      11578928      5828708   8524985  8396430   90317841
Blood Bank & Other
Equipments             85648797  253229530  319170204     204421932    139681790 170273936 26612910  1199039099
Vehicles                5918111    2324667    4970930       2889136     10027515   5527138  1927819   33585316
Test Kits & Lab
Supplies               85973714   32851813   84277414     149769836    176469485 246347083 119512851  895202196
Total                 199232452  312124454  418997064     368659832    332007498 430673142 156450010 2218144452


Category III
STI Medicines         102334760   85019385   96326308      59585158     54001579   7693366 15762762   420723318
OI Medicines           14352971    7447740   19877486      20438669     19407093  37808848 22634988   141967795
Total                 116687731   92467125  116203794      80023827     73408672  45502214 38397750   562691113


Category IV
Training Workshops
& Fellowships          94542407   71097605  116553970     119043337    148968688  69103077 54490534   673799618
Mass Media/IEC        378285983  333088053  485430994     584780703    430329239 443157739 354291794 3009364505
Large NGOs             53754630   65834938   81669837     150775523     69677370  57359706 20745643   499817647
Consultant &
Professional
Services                3686669   28660718    4682257      34861317    111519565  21190305 11562593   216163424
M&E system              1088409   16167478      618871       988580       264141    107363    513228  19748070
Surveillance &
Research/Cause of
Death, R&D and
Policy                 17812409    5852627   26458308      61335034     37423181  38104925 12111725   199098209
Targeted Services-
Priority Intervention  25651460   58533925  104333172     129649862    169707681 220421578 59244320   767541998
Total                 574821967  579235344  819747409 1081434356       967889865 849444693 512959837 5385533471


Category V
Salary of
Incremental Staff      87425077  106966628  115901079     190390931    208409198 271715553 176266371 1157074837
Operational
expenses               56685379   90798452   67193876      96300394     72742779  92019408 37227940   512968228
Equipment &
Building
Maintenance             6971693    5951434    3970618      10457971     28773903  25661551 15624218   97411388
Total                 151082149  203716514  187065573     297149296    309925880 389396512 229118529 1767454453
Grand Total           1120509608 1201234915 1554862581 1840019206 1693132266 1726173793 950923451 10086855820



                                                         60

