Page  1
March 3, 1998
Mr. Prasada Rao
Additional Secretary
National Aids Control Organization
Government of India
New Delhi, India
Re:
INDIA: UNAIDS Grant for the 
Second National AIDS Control Project
Grant No. TF021587
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Joint United 
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred 
thousand United States Dollars (US$400,000) (the Grant) to India (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out 
the activities described in the Attachment to the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and 
represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joelle Chassard
for Edwin Lim
Country Director
India
AGREED:
INDIA
By /s/ J.V.R. Prasada Rao
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 9, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to provide technical assistance to support the 
Recipient in the preparation of the Second National AIDS Control Project.  The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are set forth in the 
Attachment to this Annex.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, studies, workshops and 
related operating costs required for the Activities.
Page  2
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient 
shall cooperate with IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the 
Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities. 
The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities incurred by IDA as 
a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external 
consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by April 30, 1999.  After 
that date, IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA 
and shall be done according to IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, India on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other 
than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time 
suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient or any 
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall 
have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
ATTACHMENT TO ANNEX
Activities To Be Financed by the Grant
1.
It is envisaged that the following three activities will be undertaken and 
financed by the Grant.
2.
In broad terms, the intent of each of the three activities will be support for 
the preparation of the Second National AIDS Control Project in India.  A particular 
focus will be support for the assessment, design, and documentation of those elements 
of the national program for which the Recipient is seeking financing through IDA.
3.
A special feature of the project formulation is the constitution of ten 
Technical Resource Groups (TRGs) to provide necessary technical inputs to the 
Recipient’s National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), state governments and other 
relevant institutions on issues ranging from epidemiological surveillance and targeted 
interventions to safe blood, legal protection and human rights and treatment protocols 
for TB and other related opportunistic infections.  Activities to be financed by the 
Grant should facilitate the efficient and effective establishment of the TRGs, thereby 
strengthening the quality of project design, and the institutional capacity of NACO 
and related institutions.
4.
The three specific activities to be financed by the Grant are outlined below.
Technical Consultants
5.
Technical consultants will provide advice and expertise to NACO on priority 
issues that emerge from the TRGs.  In particular, it is anticipated that technical 
consultants will review and advise on recommendations concerning epidemiological 
spread of HIV, surveillance of sero - positive incidence and prevalence within India, 
STI and syndromic management, efficacy of targeted interventions to high risk groups, 
and medical and treatment interlinkages with opportunistic infections associated with 
HIV such as TB.  It is also anticipated that consultants will use their expertise to 
advise on program implementation issues, including aspects of funds flow, procurement, 
and institutional strengths and weaknesses.
Leadership and organization of Workshops
Page  3
6.
There is a pronounced need to build stronger links between NACO and the state 
and local governments; to devolve operational implementation to the states; to 
strengthen links between the public sector responding to AIDS and the private sector 
(including NGOs and private sector firms); and to build links between the various TRGs 
and their affiliated groups (e.g. other TRGs, academic institutions, and NACO).  In 
order to improve communication flow between these various groups, share knowledge, and 
build coordination, it is planned to have various workshops for each of the ten 
priority TRGs.  These should be held at the state and district levels in India with 
the aim of sensitizing stakeholders (both public and private) about the impact of, and 
response to HIV/AIDS; as well as institutionalizing future coordination between NACO 
and the states, and between the public and the private sectors, and other stakeholders 
including donors.
Studies
7.
Implementation of a high impact response to HIV in India is hampered by the lack 
of quality and timely data, both in terms of epidemiological characteristics of the 
incidence and spread of HIV, and in terms of options for responding (such as cost - 
effectiveness of various interventions, key lessons learnt from other states within 
India, and from programs overseas; strengths and capacities of NGOs and the private 
sector etc.).  NACO and the TRGs require timely quality data on which to plan and 
design responses.  Accordingly, studies will be conducted to collect and analyze such 
data.  Such studies should be widely distributed to increase community and public 
awareness of the nature of HIV and the options open to the Recipient.
