                                                                                                         91742
India: Stemming the AIDS Epidemic                                                                        July 1, 2002
                      With the highest number of HIV/AIDS cases in the world, India faces a major epidemic that threatens
                      the country's achievements in health and development. Today, India still has a small but rapidly closing
                      window of opportunity for stemming the epidemic. If successful, India could keep the prevalence of HIV
                      below 5 percent of the adult population. If it fails, however, the AIDS situation in India could become
                      like that in many of the worst affected African countries.

                        India's fight against HIV began in earnest with the start of the World bank-financed National AIDS
                        Project, approved in 1992. To promote nationwide efforts, the project set up AIDS control offices in 32
states and union territories. It also helped establish an Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) program, exploiting
media and traditional communications channels such as folk music, festivals, awareness campaigns, and elephant parades to
highlight the risks of HIV/AIDS. Under another project component, the government improved blood safety, making HIV
screening mandatory at all blood banks, banning professional blood donations, promoting voluntary blood donations, and
launching a program to improve the ways blood banks are being run.

The project did contribute to some important progress in the battle against HIV. Public knowledge of HIV in cities increased
from 54 percent of the population to 80 percent, and from 13 percent to 64 percent in the countryside. Use of condoms in
some targeted high-risk groups increased from 10 percent to between 50 and 90 percent. Nationwide, there was a 50 percent
increase in the volume of condom distribution through social marketing. Furthermore, the project improved the manufacturing
quality and standards of condoms through new legislation. Considerable progress was made in cleaning up the blood supply.
The states of Maharasthra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal all recorded some special successes in their HIV programs. On the
other hand, a number of states continued to perform poorly and have not yet developed effective HIV responses.

Building on initial phases of HIV/AIDS work, India now faces the challenge of quickly and effectively implementing programs in
a number of states. Focusing on high-risk groups and low-cost prevention efforts, the Second National AIDS Control Project,
approved by the World Bank in June 1999, is helping India to carry on the fight against AIDS in India. This project is part of
India's overall HIV program in which there is good cooperation of development partners, under the leadership of the Indian
National AIDS Control Organization. The project is a good basis for India's response to HIV/AIDS. India's success in
stemming the HIV epidemic at this critical juncture will depend very much on effective project implementation.

Updated: July 2002
