Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 25406
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3863)
January 31, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Trinidad and Tobago Dollar (IT$)
1995                 US$1.00              TT$5.90
1996                 US$ 1.00             TT$5.95
1997                 US$1.00              TI$6.25
1998                 US$1.00              TT$6.25
1999                 US$1.00              TT$6.20
2000                 US$1.00              TT$6.20
Fiscal Year Govemment:      October 1 - September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBD           Convention on Biodiversity
CEC           Certificate of Environmental Clearance
CPACCC        Caribbean Planning for Adoption to Climate Change
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EM            Environmental management (the function and process)
EM Act        Environmental Management Act 1995
EMA           Environmental Management Authority
ICR           Implementation Completion Report (of the World Bank)
MBI           Market-based Instrument (providing incentives for sound EM practices)
MoPaD         Ministry of Planning and Development
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
MOP           Memorandum of the President
NBSAP         National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NEIS          National Environmental Information System
NEP           National Environmental Policy
NGO           Non-Govemmental Organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PPAR          Project Performance Assessment Report (of the World Bank)
RAMSAR        The Convention on Wetlands (Ramsar, Iran, 1971)
THA           Tobago House of Assembly
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNFCCC        UN Framework Convention on Climate Change
Director-General, Operations Evaluation             Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department          Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation             Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                        Mr. Keith Pitman



The World Bank
Washington, D C. 20433
U S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
January 31, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Assessment Report on Trinidad and Tobago
Environmental Management Project (Loan 3863-TR)
The loan of US$6.25 million for the Trinidad and Tobago Environmental Management
Project (Loan 3863-TR) was approved in 1995. It closed in December 2000 after a one-year
extension and an undisbursed balance of US$0.78 million was cancelled. The overall objective
was to build effective institutional capacity to plan and implement sound environmental
management. Sub-objectives were to bring the Environmental Management Authority (EMA) to
full operational capacity, complete a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and implement
its findings, strengthen the legal framework for environmental management, rationalize and
strengthen the environmental management activities of government agencies (the Participating
Agencies - PAs) in an information network coordinated by EMA, introduce a public awareness
program, train EMA and PA staff, and carry out planning studies on environmental issues. An
earlier Bank technical assistance loan and UJNDP grants had contributed to the establishment of
EMA in 1995.
While the project objectives were highly relevant, the outcome of the project was
moderately unsatisfactory. This reflects an over-ambitious set of activities, undue expectations on
implementation capacity and the rate of change, the lack of specific enviromnental objectives and
wavering government commitment during a period of financial stringency and political
uncertainty. Generating support for environmental management would have been easier if the
project design had focused less on process and tackled some of the most serious and obvious
environmental problems. Effective public sector capacity for environmental management was not
established as intended, since the numerous government agencies having environmental impact
were not organized into the intended coordinated system. Training and studies to build EMA's
capacity were inadequate while budget and personnel shortages prevented the rationalization and
strengthening of the PAs. An effective information network coordinated by EMA was not
developed. The National Environmental Action Plan was delayed and did not lead to priority
setting although the separate National Environmental Policy has substituted. On the positive side,
while work on the legal and regulatory framework for environmental management lagged under
the project it has since picked up, and a public awareness program was undertaken and is
continuing.
Institutional development impact is rated as modest. Implementation and expenditures
focused mostly on EMA, and the intended broad-based system linking other national stakeholders
was not established. Only part of the legislation is in place. There remains a lack of
environmental indicators and monitoring to inform government and promote public awareness.
Despite government declarations (e.g., in the National Environmental Policy) and project
intentions, there is weak enforcement of planning and conservation policies and legislation to
require restoration of damaged sites is missing.



2
Sustainability of the reduced benefits of the partly formed environmental management
system is rated likely on balance, although capacity is weak in the PAs, where the bulk of EM
occurs, and EMA is not autonomous.
Bank performance is rated satisfactory, albeit after a weak start. The project appears to
have been a standard design insufficiently tuned to country realities, and hence quality at entry
was poor. Institutional objectives were both over-ambitious and open-ended, which weakened
accountability, and lack of environmental improvement goals reduced incentives for substantial
institutional improvements. The Bank backed away from environmental substance and early on
adopted a complaisant view of weak implementation. The failure to follow-up with a related
Bank-supported operation, for whatever reasons, has weakened the value and impact of the
Bank's role in the initial institution-building phase, which was only the starting point of a long
process.
Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Although government funding eventually
greatly exceeded plans, there was weak follow-through with essential legislation and neglect of
many key stakeholders. The absence of "headline" environmental programs to begin to tackle
egregious environmental issues is conspicuous seven years after the original Environmental
Management Act of 1995 and the formation of EMA. A number of continuing environmental
anachronisms (for example leaded gasoline, reef walking, beach pollution, inadequate waste
disposal and threats to unique environmental resources) reflect an ambiguous environmental
record compared with announced policies and public expectations. Borrower environmental
management performance has still some way to go to meet the expectations agreed at appraisal.
The main lessons are:
*  Specific and monitorable development objectives are a strong incentive to effective
project implementation, especially when institutional changes are substantial parts of the
implementation schedule.
*  Justification for Bank involvement in the institutional groundwork of such a long-term
process as environmental management should be built on a clear understanding between
the parties and a commitment by the Bank as to continued assistance.
*  EMA should be located in a neutral part of the government structure, or even outside it,
where there is no possibility of a real or perceived conflict of interest arising in its
environmental activities - its decisions should be based on technical and economic
considerations.
Attachment



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared intemally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http:/tworldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnabllity: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ................................v
Key Staff Responsible ................................                                             v
Preface ................................ vii
1. Background .................................1
Country and Sector ...............................                                         I
Project Genesis ...............................                                            2
2. The Project ................................                                                    3
Project Objectives ...............................                                         3
Cost (US$ millions) ...............................                                        5
Implementation Arrangements ...............................                                5
Implementation ...............................                                             5
3. Ratings ................................                                                         6
Outcome ...............................                                                    6
Efficiency ..........................0.............................. 10
Institutional Development Impact ..........................                               10
Sustainability ..........................                                                 10
Borrower Performance ..........................                                           11
4. Findings, Lessons Learned and Outlook .................................                        12
Major Findings ................................                                           12
Outlook ................................                                                  15
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .................................                                       17
Annex B. Supplementary Tables and Boxes .................................                         19
Annex C. Statements of Project Objectives .................................                       23
Annex D. Actions on Environmental Issues Identified at Appraisal ....................................... 25
This report was prepared by Julian Blackwood (consultant), who assessed the project in April, 2002, and
peer reviewed by Keith Pitman (Task Manager) The report was edited by William Hulbut, and Soon-Won
Pak provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                         ES*                        PPAR
Outcome                        Satisfactory                Satisfactory           Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                Highly Likely                Highly Likely                  Likely
Institutional
Development Impact             Substantial                  Substantial                  Modest
Bank Perfomnance               Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible
operational division of the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product
that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                          Task Manager/Leader           Division Chiefl         Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                          Douglas Wholey             Nicholas J. Krafft    Yoshiaki Abe
Completion                       Samuel G. Wedderbum           John Redwood         Orsalia Kalantzopoulus






vii
Preface
This is a Performance Assessment Report (PAR) on the Trinidad and Tobago Environmental
Management Project for which the World Bank approved a loan (3863-TD) for US$6.25 million,
on March 30, 1995. The original closing date of December 31, 1999, was extended until
December 31, 2000. An undisbursed balance of US$0.78 million was canceled.
This report is based on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR, Report No. 22393) prepared
by the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, issued on June 20, 2001, the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President, loan documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff.
An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission visited Trinidad and Tobago in April 2002
to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the government, project implementing
agencies, private sector agencies, and other stakeholders. The cooperation and assistance of
govemment officials, management and staff of EMA, UWI, civil society agencies, and other
interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.
This PAR assesses the outcome of one of the early attempts by the Bank to provide assistance for
environmental management in a small island developing economy, which, because of its
unusually large petro-chemical industrial base and relatively high income, has both severe
environmental problems and the opportunity to ameliorate them. The assessment took place some
seven years after the loan was approved by which time results of the initiative should be evident.
Following standard OED procedures, a draft of this PAR was sent to the borrower for comments
but none were received.






1.     Background
Country and Sector
1.1    Trinidad and Tobago consists of the largest island in the southern Caribbean, Trinidad,
plus Tobago to its northeast. The population of 1.3 million is concentrated in the northeast of
Trinidad in the capital, Port of Spain, and two contrbation corridors eastwards and southwards
from the capital to the towns of Arima and San Fernando respectively.' The economy is based on
petrochemicals exploited since 1908 and is the most industrialized in the Caribbean. Because
Trinidad is small and separated from the mainland by only seven miles of ocean, with a wide
range of habitats, there is a relatively dense, varied and profuse biodiversity, and occasional new
species come across the Gulf of Paria from Venezuela. Habitats span high rainfall tropical rain
forests in two hill ranges to notable areas of semi-arid savanna, swamps, mangrove, and
picturesque bays and long beaches around the coastline.
1.2    Major labor-intensive plantation crops (especially sugar and cocoa) were important
before the oil and petrochemical industries took over in the twentieth century, and the Afro-
Indian population reflects labor imported during the early Spanish and then British colonial eras
(which ended in 1962). The economy experienced boom years while oil prices were high during
the 1970s, but too little of the boom had lasting impact, and opportunities were missed while
resources were plentiful to correct some longstanding environmental problems. With the recent
discovery of vast additional offshore oil and gas reserves, Trinidad and Tobago is poised for
another economic boom which may provide a renewed opportunity to correct environmental
problems.
1.3    The plantation and petrochemical industries, combined with dense population in the
northeast lowlands, have resulted in great pressure on the environment with both localized and
dispersed pollution (of soil, air, fresh water, and beach and ocean resources), loss and damage to
natural resources and threats to biodiversity. Main problems are polluted waterways and
shorelines (from a combination of industrial effluent, untreated sewage, and frequent oil spills),
sites contaminated by oil spills and industrial waste, poorly sited and managed dump sites and
improper dumping of hazardous solid wastes, deforestation (especially in the Northem Range),
and growing air and noise pollution. Noise pollution, in the Caribbean home of the steel drum
camival band, is a public issue that politicians have addressed recently. Car ownership has
recently grown rapidly to become the highest per capita in Central America and the Caribbean (in
Tobago it has more than doubled in three years), giving rise to increased congestion and air
pollution.2 On the positive side, most of the oil and gas extraction and petrochemical industries
are distant from the major population centers and the prevailing winds from the east blow air
pollution over the Gulf of Paria away from the major centers in western Trinidad.
1.4    Mangrove removal and swamp reclamation for rice cultivation are topical issues in
conservation. Unlike most of the smaller Caribbean islands, beach-based international tourism is
not significant (except in southern Tobago) although international cruise ships call at Port of
Spain. Tobago is especially concerned about beach and ocean pollution from untreated sewage
and seepage from waste dumps, beach encroachment, and the adverse impacts of recent large-
1. Like most islands in the Caribbean the capital and main port is located on the calmer west side where early sailing
ships found safe anchorages out of the prevailing Northeast Trade Winds.
2. Bulk importation of inexpensive used cars has made them affordable to many more families.



2
scale tourist developments. Rapid expansion of pleasure boat and intemational yachting
businesses in and around Chaguaramas (west of the capital) is giving rise to pollution problems.3
1.5     An active and vocal lobby follows environmental issues and presses for changes based on
a variety of perspectives: business interests that see commerce benefiting, preservationists
concerned about biodiversity and losing natural treasures, NGOs with specific mandates, and the
University of the West Indies which is active in monitoring and documenting environmental
issues and which offers related courses.4 The environmental situation at project design is
summarized in Annex B, Table 1.
Project Genesis
1.6     Environmental problems have long been recognized in the country, but at the Rio Earth
Summit in 1992 the country's National Report on its environmental status was muted:
"At the national level, environmental issues pertain to land use, pollution, solid waste
management, and environmental standards. Regional issues relate mostly to the
Caribbean Sea and include trans-boundary transport of hazardous chemicals and wastes,
pollution (including oil pollution), and the management of trans-boundary fish stocks.
And at the global level, the major issues include climate change and sea level rise."
(World Resources Institute web site, April 2002).
1.7     The Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3432), known as
BEIRL, became effective in March 1993 and contained some environmental management
measures to avoid adverse impacts from further industrial expansion. In proposing BEIRL the
Bank's President reported to the Board that the government "recognizes that environmental
degradation must be halted and reversed before economic development, human health, and the
biosphere become further affected, and appreciates the need to put in place the necessary legal,
regulatory and institutional framework."5 But it was clear to the government and the Bank that a
more fundamental approach to environmental management was needed, both to establish
capability and to rationalize the existing confusion of environmental legislation and
environmental responsibilities of numerous government agencies. Other driving forces for
strengthened environmental management were a strong environmental movement that was
making itself heard and a govemment study that suggested that eco-tourism had good potential.6
1.8     Govemment took swift action. In 1992 it used funds from a Bank Technical Assistance
Loan to hire a consultant to coordinate establishment of a specialized agency for environmental
management. The government then prepared a Policy Brief (1993)7 and a draft Environment
3. Environmentalists note that part of the attraction of Chaguaramas for foreign boat owners is that overhauls are not
constrained from using materials banned elsewhere (such as lead-based anti-fouling) and that the usual regulations for
waste disposal are not in place.
4. Tobago notes proudly that it has the oldest declared forest reserve in the Western Hemisphere - Main Ridge Reserve
which dates from 1765, "for the protection of the rains."
S. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, March 6, 1995, World Bank. Later the project under
assessment was described as building on the start made under BEIRL.
6. The Bank's support through the Environmental Management Project started out in the early 1990s as a component of
a broader Natural Resources Management Project (NRM), but at govemment request the EM component was promoted
to a full project and the NRM concept apparently lapsed. Two NRM projects (National Parks and Wildlife Authority)
survived into the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy as projects proposed for 2001, but that was not to be.
7. Assisted by a consultant engaged with funds from the World Bank Technical Assistance Loan.



3
Management Bill which, after public comments, became the Environmental Management Act
(1995). This Act provided the institutional
framework for environmental management.       Box 1. EMA's Responsibilities
framework for . environmental management. To recommend national environmental policies,
It established the Environmental              develop and implement policies and programs for
Management Authority (EMA) as an             the effective management and  use of the
autonomous statutory agency (Box 1). An       environment, coordinate environmental management
Environmental Trust Fund was to finance      functions,  make  recommendations  for  the
EMA's operations (through annual              rationalization of the environmental management
system, promote public awareness, set national
appropriations approved by Parliament and     environmental standards, monitor compliance and
funds from fees, grants, and donations). An   take enforcement action, prevent and control
Environmental Commission, as a superior       pollution and foster conservation of the environment
court of record, was to hear appeals against  and establish and coordinate linkages at the local,
EMA actions. The government recognized       regional, and international levels. (Based on the
EMA actons. Th goverment reogmzed Environmental ManaRem en! Act, 2000, Part 1ll)
that creating EMA in 1995 was but one of      Envronentl_Mnajemn__ct,200__Prt       ___
many measures needed to address pressing environmental issues, including the need to rationalize
and coordinate the environmental activities of government agencies and consolidate
environmental legislation. At the time, some 25 affected agencies were identified and there were
said to be about 40 pieces of legislation containing environmental clauses, but these numbers
grew substantially as more work was done.9 The task facing EMA in environmental management,
especially coordinating environmental work of what became known as the "Participating
Agencies," was challenging given the severity, depth, and breadth of environmental problems
(Annex B, Box 1).
2.      The Project
Project Objectives'"
2.1     The overall objective was to build effective institutional capacity to plan and
implement sound environmental management. This was to be achieved through eight
secondary objectives (the last three of which were listed in the documents as components):
1. bringing EMA to full operational capacity as quickly as possible (its creation was a
Condition of Loan Effectiveness);
2. completing a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and implementing measures
consistent with NEAP findings;
3. strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for environmental management;
4. strengthening and rationalizing the activities of government agencies involved in
environmental management (the Participating Agencies - PAs);
5. linking the PAs into a national environmental infonnation network under the
coordination and supervision of the EMA;
6. a public awareness program;
8. UNDP funds were used for technical assistance to draft the act and to assist setting up EMA.
9. EMA's Annual Report for 2000 mentions that over 100 laws touch on environmental issues, while another source
advised the OED mission that there were over 140 pieces of legislation with environmental management content
requiring rationalization.
IO. Statements of objectives often vary between sources in the project documents (see Annex D for details). The
secondary objectives adopted here are also components rather than higher level development objectives, but are so used
to facilitate the assessment and align somewhat with the ICR's approach.



4
7. environmental training (for staff of EMA and the PAs and the private sector); and
8. studies on environmental issues.
2.2    The completion of a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) was especially
important to the project as it included determination of EMA's immediate priorities and future
work program without which this new agency could not be brought to full operational capacity
(which was a major sub-objective). In the context of later comments, there was a notable dilution
of objectives as the project design developed: the original objective statement as late as appraisal
was to support a "priority [environmental management] work program", but this later became
"implementing measures consistent with NEAP findings." Similarly, the fifth objective's
"national environmental information network" linking the PAs and EMA was originally a
National Environmental Management Information System."
2.3    Just before field appraisal a Bank internal document reported that the public's prime
environmental concem was over drinking water quality, followed by oil pollution of coastal
waters and inadequate treatment of sewage. That document proposed that tackling water quality
issues, including coastal waters, should be included in the priority activities of the project. But
despite that existing evidence, determining priorities was assumed to need study and no
environmental management priorities were included in project objectives. This seriously
weakened the project design.
2.4    While there was reportedly wide comrnitment to the objectives among government, the
private sector and nongovemmental organizations (NGOs), and it was recognized that a concerted
effort over many years would be necessary to achieve the objectives - possibly implying more
than the limited 4V/2 years of the project. The objectives were ambitious, especially as the NEAP
had to be prepared (thereby determining EMA's work program priorities), approved, and lead to
measures for improved EM within the relatively short implementation period.'2 Moreover, the
project description embraced targets that are neither finite nor time-bound and continue to apply
thus making performance assessment difficult.
2.5    These objectives were grounded in a Policy Letter from the government to the Bank in
which the government commited itself both to managing the environment better in future and to
correcting existing environmental problems which were listed (Annex B, Box B). 13 However, the
Action Plan attached to the Policy Letter was trivial. It covered just the short 16-month start-up
period from December 1994 to March 1996, not to the end of the project in mid-1999, and the
actions specified were merely early administrative activities and the start of studies - that is, the
initiation of inputs rather than meeting specified commitments and delivery of outputs. This left
the project without a road map for any substantial environmental management activity.
2.6    The components to achieve project objectives (Annex B, Box C) lacked immediate
environmental goals to operationalize environmental management. Thus the government and the
11. "Management" disappeared from this phrase in the project files during implementation without apparent comment,
perhaps because it might give the impression that EMA was to manage the PAs' environmental work, although the
word is in the Loan Agreement.
12. But the project documents suggest that the design benefited from 14 earlier similar environmental management
projects assisted by the World Bank. The assessment did not review these earlier projects to clarify this point - a larger
task.
13. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, March 6, 1995, Technical Annex, Annex B.



5
Bank missed the opportunity to give needed environmental substance to the project design, but
which would have surely required a longer and more realistic implementation period.14
2.7    Costs broken down by objective or component are not available, either at appraisal or as
actuals in the ICR, but by agency they are as follows:
Cost (US$ minlions)
By Agency                              Appraisal    Actual
Ministry of Planning and Development     1.13         0.30
Environmental Management Authority       5.25        10.36
Participating Agencies                   3.20         0.09
Total                                   10.31        10.75
The limited breakdown of agency costs at appraisal in the Technical Annex is not matched by
actual costs in the ICR so has not been included above. Unspent PA funds were eventually used
to finance a third of the cost of the EMA headquarters building, an added activity. UNDP
provided US$0.95 million to assist MoPaD to move ahead with EMA establishment while the
project was processed. The Bank retroactively financed $400,000 of early costs.
Implementation Arrangements
2.8    The project was to be implemented initially by the Ministry of Planning and
Development until the Environmental Management Agency became operational some months
after project start up. In particular, MoPaD was to be responsible for procurement and financial
control of the project, in which it was already experienced. An Environmental Task Force (a
precursor to the EMA board of directors) of senior people from public, private, and NGO bodies
was appointed in early 1995 to guide MoPaD in the early stages. The EMA Board was to draw up
operational policies to be implemented by the Chief Executive Officer. The Bank and the Board
were to carry out annual reviews of project progress and set priorities for the following year.
Implementation
2.9    The project ran for over five years with the loan closing date being extended by a year.
Although much has been done, the record and mission enquiries indicate that project activities
were of much less scope and volume than planned, concentrating almost entirely on EMA (96
percent of costs compared to 56 percent planned), with little expenditure on any other agencies.
Expenditure on EMA for construction, equipment, and operating costs doubled from $5.25
million to $10.36 million, leaving only about $400,000 for all other activities.
2.10   The Ministry of Planning used only a quarter of its allocated expenditures during an
initial 18 months of relative inactivity, possibly because EMA was already in existence.
2.11   EMA was slow to get activities underway against what was perhaps an unrealistic
schedule, and because new staff were inexperienced and early budgets were cut by govemment
14. This might have been achieved instead by a quick follow-up project to fill the gaps, but the Bank did not at the time
appreciate the nature of the problem, and indeed as late as 1999 the Country Assistance Strategy (March 24, 1999)
proposed following-up with additional institutional projects for establishment of National Parks and a Wildlife
Authority. These projects would have addressed biodiversity concems especially, but the Bank did not apparently take
a direct interest in resolving degradation problems caused by past environmental mismanagement.



6
during a period of financial stringency. In particular, the project schedule did not allow for the
time needed to develop procedures and systems."
2.12    There were also management disruptions. EMA's first Board of Directors was soon
replaced by a more effective and qualified group, but thereafter the Board changed each time the
government changed (eventually making five times in seven years). Since EMA senior
management was also changed early on, continuity and management buy-in to some project
content was eroded, particularly the study program. EMA staffing, after a slow start (caused in
part by an overwhelming number of applicants) soon exceeded planned levels although there was
unexpectedly high turnover later. Funds saved from not implementing the PA component were
used in part for EMA's headquarters building. This building is suitably sized and located in
central Port of Spain, and was occupied in late 2001.
3.      Ratings
Outcome
The outcome criterion is based on the ratings for three sub-criteria (Relevance, Efficacy, and
Efficiency) and is the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or
are expected to be achieved, efficiently.
3.1     The outcome of the project is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Quality at entry was poor
in relation to the project design not capturing the core of government's commitment and backing
off from environmental action. The government's completion report is similarly reserved on
whether the project has achieved its objectives, referring only to significantly advancing progress
toward its objectives. The main issue was the failure to establish the kind of broad-based
environmental management system envisaged at appraisal and there is no evidence that the wider
system will ever come into being. Even EMA activities were well below what was needed to
establish it as a fully-fledged organization and the effectiveness staff training, in contributing
EMA capability, has been undermined by high staff turnover. Planned legislation has not been
enacted and there has been no action on the most serious environmental issues some ten years
after government was jolted into institutional action at the time of the Rio Earth Summit. The
implementation schedule was over ambitious and short at four and half years, especially in
requiring numerous activities to be conducted simultaneously by a new organization (for
example, 11 major studies in the first two years).'6 Stakeholder expectations for the project to
mitigate pollution problems were not achieved.'7
15. Project designs frequently underestimate the time needed for mobilization and start up activities, which can then
place projects in a priority-distorting catch-up mode. In reporting difficulty with the Bank's procurement regulations
EMA noted that requirements for intemational competitive bidding were very restrictive, and bid thresholds were low
compared with the Bank's normal practice.
16. These 11 studies were: National Environmental Action Plan, Institutional Rationalization Studies (28
organizations), National Environmental Information System, Pollution Inventory, Environmental Data Base,
Altemative Mediation Incentive, Training Needs and Design, Polluter Pay Principal (Phases I and 11), Innovative
Finance Mechanism, Natural Resource and Environmental Accounting. There was also to be a Mid-term Evaluation
Study. The absence of anything on market-based instruments is notable.
17. Thus, there is skepticism amongst stakeholders of govemment's commitment to sound environmental management
given the failure to even begin to clean up and correct conspicuous environmental problems. Some environmentalists
interviewed by the mission see EMA's prospects of success as remote in the absence of the broader environmental
management system and more substantial evidence of govemment commitment to environmental clean up in particular.



7
Relevance of Objectives
The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current development
priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals.
3.2    The overall objective and the sub-objectives are all highly relevant to the needs of
the country's environmental program, and remain so. The Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy in 1999 emphasized safeguarding the environment as a priority for support, although
since then the plans for doing so have not bome fruit as lending operations have drastically
diminished. Trinidad and Tobago's relatively high income and growing economy is placing great
stress on the environment and past environmental degradation has left some longstanding
environmental problems. Achievement of the project objectives would also help Trinidad and
Tobago meet its obligations under a number of intemational environmental treaties - for example
the Montreal Protocol (ozone depletion), Ramsar (wetlands), UNFCCC/CPACC (climate
change), and CBD (biological diversity).
3.3    Given varied and widespread environmental problems, the project strategy reflected
govemment's recognition that sound environmental management would require a very broad
institutional framework. This was to comprise all the many government agencies with
environmental impact and responsibilities in a strengthened and rationalized system, a
countrywide environmental information network and a new agency, EMA, to provide
coordination and oversee compliance. The Environmental Management Act (originally 1995 but
reenacted in 2000), expresses the intention clearly:
"The objects of this Act are to.... (c) "ensure the establishment of an integrated
environmental management system in which the Authority [EMA], in consultation with
other persons, determines priorities and facilitates co-ordination among governmental
entities to effectively harmonize activities designed to protect, enhance and conserve the
environment;...."[emphasis added to highlight key words].
In addition, new laws and rationalization of existing laws would be needed with EMA charged
with enforcing the laws (backed up by an environmental court).
3.4    With the coming of another oil and gas boom (from the recent vast new finds offshore)
the country can be expected again to go through a period of more rapid development and of
abundant resources. This will place the environment under increased pressure and without sturdy
and effective environmental management it will be difficult to avoid further degradation of
natural resources and rising pollution. Thus the project objectives remain highly relevant.
Efficacy
The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking
into account their relative importance.
3.5    Effective institutional capacity to plan and implement sound environmental
management was not fully established. Efficacy is therefore rated modest as the main objective
of establishing effective institutional capacity was not achieved and there were several shortfalls
on secondary objectives as discussed below. The environmental management capability left by
the project is much more concentrated than planned on EMA as a single-purpose government
environmental agency, with reduced capability in the absence of planned coordination
mechanisms, training and environmental studies, and given high staff turnover.



8
3.6    This broad vision has yet to be achieved and it is uncertain whether it will be achieved in
the near term. Renewed effort to achieve original objectives would be appropriate, particularly to
pursue strengthening of the PAs' capabilities for environmental management. Achievement of
secondary objectives is reviewed in the following paragraphs.
3.7    EMA was not brought to full operational capacity. Generally EMA had a rocky start
and has still to completely settle down after seven years of existence. Any achievements have
been hard won and, not surprisingly, much still needs to be done to bring EMA's capabilities up
to the challenging task. It now has an approved complement of 72 staff, but only some 40
positions were filled in April 2002. The new headquarters building has provided a secure home
and will be a positive factor in keeping staff. In Tobago, the Department of the Environment is in
effect acting as the agent of EMA, subject to the wishes of the Assembly, but this may depend
more on compatible personalities than any institutional arrangements.
3.8    The National Environmental Action Plan was not given priority, was delayed until
1999, and did not formally prioritize environmental management tasks. The delay allowed
the preparation of a National Environment Policy (NEP, an agreed new step), but most critically
the delay adversely affected EMA's work program as priorities had not been established. This left
EMA drifting with neither full steam up nor its voyage mapped out. When the NEAP was
eventually completed, the suggested high priorities - water pollution and catchment degradation -
were low on EMA's agenda.'8 With respect to the second half of this objective - implementing
measures consistent with NEAP findings - the ICR notes that the NEP tended to take over the
work program planning objective of NEAP and the EM Act tended to become the guide for EMA
rather than the project documentation.
3.9    New environmental legislation was slow to be drafted, given EMA's limited early
capacity, with none completed until after the project ended and only about half of the Acts
have become law (Annex B, Table 2). Some of the most critical Acts have apparently stalled
(with parliamentary procedure to blame in part), especially those concerning air and water quality
and solid waste management.'9 These new laws and regulations address specific pollution
problems but legislative action on past environmental damage has yet to be pursued.20
3.10   Enforcement and strengthening penalties of existing environmental laws would have
substantial results. An exercise has been completed recently to rationalize and catalogue over
140 pieces of existing legislation with environmental content. Stakeholders suggest that if this
major exercise were to lead to greater observance of current environmental policies and laws it
could alone be as effective as new laws in achieving environmental management objectives.
However, the laws would have to be fully enforced and the fines (which were trivialized by
inflation) made substantial in today's money. A downside of not enforcing existing
environmental provisions in the law is that the seriousness of the govemment's intent with
respect to the environment may be questioned. A related issue is that the Environmental
Commission (the "High Court" for environmental disputes) has been in place for well over a year,
18. EMA more recently identifies the three leading priorities as water pollution, solid and hazardous wastes, and
vehicle emissions. Management identified a useful set of factors in setting priorities as: severity, potential impact from
resolution, short-term/long-term choices, politics, staff skills, and willing partners.
19. Environmental legislation has a long record of lapsing after drafting, as noted in the Technical Annex to the
President's Report for the project (para. 8). Environmental issues are said to have come to govemment attention
initially at the time of the 1972 UJN Human Environment conference in Stockholm, after which Environmental
Protection Bills were drafted in 1976 and 1989 but were never brought before parliament.
20 A Bank reviewer of this report notes that this is a common finding in developing countries, and that the USA's
Super Fund was slow in coming, but Trinidad and Tobago has the opportunity soon to change this pattem by using a
small part of the resources from the coming petroleum boom for environmental clean up.



9
but has yet to try a case. Its continued inactivity plays to the views of skeptics who question the
need for such a costly institution, believing that the existing courts could handle environmental
cases.
3.11   The capacity for environmental management of the Participating Agencies was
increased only modestly; there was no attempt to rationalize their activities. Although MOUs
have been signed between EMA and 29 PAs, the PAs did not have the budget or suitable staff to
establish EM units and only $90,000 of the planned $3.2 million for PAs was used. PAs did
appoint Environmental Officers but often their junior rank and lack of training made them of
limited effectiveness. Neither the PA rationalization studies nor the PA staff training program
were carried out. There were also disagreements between EMA and PAs on financial matters
(fees for services). In consequence, the environmental management capacity of these govemment
agencies remains limited and EMA is unable to provide coordination on EM without reciprocal
expertise in the PAs.
3.12   The study for National Environmental Information System (NEIS) was completed
but a network with the PAs coordinated by EMA could not be established. The NEIS has not
contributed significantly to effective EM, especially since environmental indicators were neither
established nor published. In consequence, neither the public nor government has a clear picture
of progress in environmental improvement. The failure to pull information routinely from
widespread sources throughout govemment possibly explains the limited environmental data
available. EMA's web site contains an NEIS site, but it has no indicators or current information
since it was last updated over three years ago in March 1999. Partly as a result of this lack of data,
EMA's annual State of the Environment report has been of mixed quality. For example, the report
for 2000 focuses on air quality and in some 50 pages provides an excellent general handbook on
the subject, discusses two local studies on air quality, the status of legislation and related EMA
actions, but it does not provide any data or analysis of air pollution severity or trends in the
country.
3.13   Public awareness work was reduced by limited budgets, but even so, publishing,
community projects and the introduction of new and improved courses in schools, and University
of the West Indies activities, broadened environmental awareness and contributed to an
increasing flow of public complaints on environmental matters.
3.14   Environmental training for EMA and PA staff, and the private sector, was reduced
by budget shortages and by reluctance to use international recruitment to make up for local skill
deficits. Some EMA staff received on-the-job training and went on overseas courses but skilled
environmental management capacity was not greatly improved overall, especially as there was
high staff turnover.
3.15   Few of the project's environmental studies were completed (four of 11): NEAP, the
pollution inventory, the NEIS, and one on beverage container legislation. The delays and limited
completion of studies was attributed to an ambitious target, low priority by EMA, limited EMA
staff capable of supervising such studies, and reluctance to use intemational consultants. Some of
the studies contributed to the drafting of issue-specific legislation. The failure to complete the
studies program meant that information gaps constrained important steps needed to strengthen the
national EM system.2'
21. EMA completed three non-project studies in partnership with other agencies on air pollution, environmental
literacy and standards for waste water effluent.



10
3.16   The major shortfalls in executing the project as planned would have been less important
if the reduced environmental management system put in place had nonetheless showed signs of
achieving substantial environmental improvements, but this is not so. A summary of the limited
actions taken so far on the main environmental issues is in Annex B, Table 3.
Efficiency
The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives
3.17   Project efficiency has been only modest. A project of this nature is not amenable to
standard rate of return estimation. This assessment concludes that efficiency has been modest
given that project costs have almost equaled appraisal estimates (excluding the additional costs
for EMA's headquarters) while project achievements are well below expectations in both scope
and quantity. There is also a lack of substantial environmental improvements (compounded by
inadequate qualitative monitoring) to show for the mounting costs of environmental management
(a growing EMA, an inactive Environmental Commission and mounting Green Fund resources
levied from the private sector which have yet to be beneficially employed for environmental
improvements).
Institutional Development Impact
The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to make more efficient,
equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements.
3.18   Institutional development impact has been modest overall. For a project heavily
targeted on institutional change, this rating and the efficacy rating are obviously closely linked.
Institutional development impact, however, is rated without reference to plans and targets. Given
what was agreed at the outset as being needed for effective environmental management,
substantial is too high a rating and therefore the assessment falls back on modest as for the related
efficacy rating (with these two ratings having some mutual reinforcement). Much of the input for
EMA's establishment pre-dates the project. EMA's linkages with the PAs remain weak in the
absence of the necessary reciprocal capacity in each agency and a functioning information
network fed by those agencies. While the project achieved some strengthening of EMA, but much
less than planned, it did not achieve more than limited outputs for the broader EM institutional
arrangements across the PAs, and the critical legislation is only partially in place even now and
may be stalled on important items. Training and studies were well below expected achievements
and there is little evidence that the National Environmental Information System is having much
impact.
Sustainability
The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time.
3.19   Sustainability of the partially formed environmental management system is rated as
likely, even though capacity is weak in the PAs, where the bulk of EM occurs, and EMA is not
autonomous. Benefit flows are likely to be much lower than planned, since it is unlikely that such
a single agency, in a "command and control" mode, can achieve the far-reaching results expected
from managing the environment given the traditional social and political culture of Trinidad and
Tobago. A flow of benefits from significant environmental rehabilitation is yet to materialize as



I1
no such program exists. Hence low expectations have low risk of failure. Risks have already been
seen: budgetary shortfalls for EM activities, the politicization of EMA's board (with wholesale
and frequent changes), EMA's location in a service ministry, the relative failure of the PA
component, and delays on some important EM actions and activities. But these risks are already
reflected in reduced results and lowered expectations.
3.20   One notable and serious risk remains. Amalgamation of the Ministry of the Environment,
created in 1999, with the Ministry of Public Utilities is viewed with concern in environmental
circles since there is obviously an apparent, even real, conflict of interest in the arrangement.
Thus, the function of public utility service provision (an acknowledged source of widespread and
serious pollution problems) is combined with the supervision of the agency responsible for
monitoring and policing observance of the very environmental laws meant to control such
problems. So long as this arrangement continues there will be concern about the objectivity of
actions taken or not taken by EMA in relation to pollution and conservation issues linked in any
way to public utilities.
Bank Performance
The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition
arrangements for regular operation of the project)
3.21   Bank performance is rated satisfactory overall after a weak start. Quality at entry
was poor because of weak and ambiguous project design, and the watering down of earlier
enviromental objectives during design. The failure to persist with the original appraisal plan to
include high-priority environmental improvement as a project objective robbed the project of
needed substance. Generally the Bank did not appreciate the limitations imposed on project
options by human resource constraints in Trinidad and Tobago. Over-mighty expectations may
account for some of the disappointments. Early supervision must have fallen off in vigor and
focus once the achievement of the main project objective was erroneously declared after only a
year of implementation.22 Later supervision made amends and EMA was appreciative of Bank
supervision inputs, but would have welcomed even more such assistance and special expertise.
Eventually support for environmental management activities were casualties as the Bank's
lending pipeline collapsed quite rapidly.
Borrower Performance
The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality of
preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability.
3.22   Borrower performance was unsatisfactory on balance, especially in not fully funding
project operations early on, delayed passage of legislation, allowing the important PA component
to fail and in failing to ensure that other important project activities were completed. The failure
of the PA component may indicate less commitment to countrywide and agency-wide EM than
was assumed in the project design. Slow processing of legislation could undermine the
effectiveness of EMA and absence of progress on the policy to reverse environmental damage
22. Within a year of the project's approval, supervision reports (April and July 1996) redefined the project objective as
merely establishing EMA (which in fact was done as a condition of loan effectiveness) and thus could report internally
that the major project objective had been achieved.



12
casts further doubt on the depth of government commitment to the environment. Similarly some
4"environmental anachronisms" noted (leaded gasoline, reef walking, paving in Queens Park
Savanna, and the like) are a reminder of relatively small environmental improvement initiatives
that are outstanding, and have potentially high gains in public credibility for govemment
environmental concems. Environmental stakeholders expect more from the govemment, but other
priorities seem to be receiving greater attention.
4.     Findings, Lessons Learned and Outlook
Major Findings
4.1    Effective national environmental management capability has yet to be established
and a number of issues require attention if there is to be a chance of making inroads on
identified environmental problems. The points that follow raise questions about the likelihood
of EMA in the current situation being able to effect fundamental environmental improvements,
the difficulty of enforcement given cultural norms, the incomplete institutional tools for the job,
and the absence of major environmental management impact. The last point concems the Bank's
own assessment capability.
4.2    Cultural norms and lack of incentives may constrain effective environmental
management. Basing environmental management predominantly on regulations and enforcement
is problematical in a culture that has long been characterized more by a laissez-faire attitude to
the demands of authority than general observance of formalities.23 The limitations of the power of
a single environmental agency to influence the actions of many other govemment agencies was
recognized by the Bank and gave rise to the PA component, which was only partly implemented.
To achieve broad environmental impact EMA will now have to rely on general compliance with
new legislation (noting that existing environmental legislation was widely ignored) as well as on
a good deal of environmental altruism in the absence of market-based instruments. This is a tall
order, especially in the long-established and close-knit culture of a small island society with all
the acknowledged social constraints that that implies. A more institutionalized basis for broad
environmental management still seems essential.
4.3    The regulatory framework remains weak so long as legislation on the most critical
areas (air and water pollution, and waste management) is incomplete. Little improvement can be
expected in these critical areas of environmental concern while these bills remain in limbo, either
affected by the polluters themselves or by EMA's activities in managing environmental affairs.
On the positive side, the rationalization and cataloguing of some 140 existing laws with
environmental content could have great impact if the laws were enforced with penalties updated
for inflation. Also, the appropriate role for the Environmental Commission was a matter of debate
among local observers, especially as it had yet to have to act on a matter, on the grounds that the
existing court system can handle environmental law.
4.4    The town and country planning process, in channeling development in an
environmentally responsible way, is constrained by lack of physical planners and the
23. Examples familiar to many Trinidadians include that few private sewer systems, which are required in new housing
developments, function properly for long after the new houses are sold; there has been habitual ignoring of vehicle
visible emission requirements (including by public sector vehicles witnessed by the Bank mission), and that physical
planning guidelines are seldom a constraint on the desires of commercial development. EMA's Environmental Police
are now making a difference, especially on vehicle emissions.



13
prevalence of freelance development largely outside the planning process.24 Valuable natural
resources, especially land and species, are continually under threat from unauthorized
development. Lack of development and planning discipline, and apparent inability or
unwillingness of authorities to step in, also threaten to undermine enforcement of environmental
management laws and processes. If planning laws and decisions cannot be enforced routinely and
regularly, the future for enforcing environmental law also looks bleak. This could jeopardize
EMA's effectiveness in its current "command and control" mode, although public awareness
work can help. It is not clear that the recently approved environmental legislation (for ELAs and
CECs) can be any more successful than ignored or inappropriate planning decisions in reducing
environmental damage and undue losses to development.
4.5    Significant environmental improvements are notably absent 10 years after the
government embarked on establishing environmental management capability. Moreover,
environmental degradation continues and public skepticism is not allayed by the few small
environmental successes to date. The absence of "headline" environmental programs to begin to
tackle at least one or two of the egregious environmental issues is conspicuous seven years after
the original Environmental Management Act of 1995 and the formation of EMA. The cost of this
inaction is high in terms of public perceptions and support for serious environmental
management. A number of small successes, for example, lead poisoning and noise pollution in
specific instances, cannot compare with making a start on cleaning up the worst cases of past
pollution such as the Caroni River and making popular bathing beaches safe. Funding for such
improvements may be available from the recently introduced Green Fund (from a levy on
businesses), which is for environmental projects carried out by communities and NGOs. The fund
has already received over TT$130 million but has not yet disbursed any money as procedures and
systems are being finalized.
4.6    There is currently no legislation requiring the restoration and cleaning up of
environmentally damaged sites and systems (which were caused by at least a century of largely
unconstrained pollution, dumping, and misuse of natural resources). However, the Environmental
Management Act 2000 refers to "protect, enhance and conserve" the environment with respect to
both govemment's commitment and EMA's role. Similarly the National Environmental Policy
(1998) refers to environmental improvement, rehabilitation, reforestation, and restoration, and to
correcting for past development decisions that have affected the "environmental health of the
country." The govemment is said to be committed to "return to suitable use" areas of past
contamination. Legislation and programs are needed to add substance to these pronouncements.25
4.7    Environmental anachronisms persist. Examples are that leaded gasoline is still
available and cheaper than unleaded;26 the growing pleasure boat service industry (for both local
and foreign owners) is unconstrained by environmental rules commonly in place elsewhere
(which is a probable growth stimulant); organized reef walking in the country's only marine park
(in Tobago); the recent paving of six acres of a national natural heritage site (the Queen's Park
Savanna in central Port of Spain); and that the Caroni River remains in some minds "an open
24. A minister reportedly has commented in parliament to the effect that 75 percent of development is unauthorized
(i.e., ignores planning codes and requirements).
25. EMA management notes that it was not intended that EMA itself take on the resolution of major environmental
problems.
26. EMA's Annual Report for 2000 (page 56) notes that Trinidad and Tobago is committed under a UNDP/IBRD
regional program to phasing out leaded gasoline by 2002, but that was not apparent in April 2002 during the mission's
visit. Reportedly that change would make Trinidad the last Caribbean country to ban leaded gasoline. Ironically, the
lead for the gasoline (about 48,000 kg per year) has to be imported while the altemative additive is produced locally.



14
sewer" despite decades of concern and some past efforts to clean it up.27 Political inaction on
these phenomena can be attributed to low public interest in environmental issues.28 These
environmental anachronisms, which are no longer tolerated in more environmentally aware
societies, are unnecessary blots on the country's environmental record. Such blatant cases of
pollution and natural resource degradation should not be difficult to correct if commitment
existed. They could have been the core of some "quick fixes" that the government's ICR regrets
were missing from the project design. 29
4.8     The declining quality of Bank supervision files hinders comprehensive evaluation.
The usefulness of the Bank's formal records for performance assessment has been weakened by
the introduction of information technology, as valuable information has been lost from the
storyline. In the past OED has commented on the quality of the Bank's formal project files and
has occasionally elevated comments to a finding or issue. In this case, tracking implementation in
the Bank's files was particularly difficult as the files are quite sparse, partly because much of
supervision had been conducted from a field office and those files were not forwarded to
headquarters. But perhaps of more general significance, the paper files at headquarters were not
consistently bound chronologically but contain many loose-leaf folders, multiple copies of
documents are included and, in the age of e-mail, only the most formal printed documents are
available. Internal memos arguing issues and reaching decisions, frequently with informative
annotations, are notably absent from the records for the project. It is believed that much of the
missing details are in unarchived e-mails. This made tracking implementation and the handling of
issues more difficult than was the case in the more adequately documented past.
Lessons Learned
4.9     The project design was weak in having no environmental improvement goals,
leaving the project with open-ended institutional objectives and insufficient purpose.
Specific and monitorable development objectives are a strong incentive to effective project
implementation. Also, generating support for environmental management would have been easier
if the project had included specific environmental objectives that included tackling some of the
acknowledged environmental issues. A commitment to at least starting on some critical
environmental rehabilitation work, as a condition of Bank involvement, would have given the
project some much-needed impetus and greater impact.
4.10    Justification for Bank involvement in the institutional groundwork of such a long-
term process as environmental management should be built on a clear understanding
between the parties and a commitment by the Bank as to continued assistance. The failure to
follow-up with a related operation, for whatever reasons, has weakened the value and impact of
27. The Caroni River has long been a catalyst of environmental concem. In 1959 a commission of enquiry on pollution
of the river, led by Justice Blagdon, recommended the establishment of an agency to manage environmental matters.
28. Competing priorities and concems are public safety and the crime rate, corruption, employment and social services,
education and a series of close elections resulting in frequent govemment changes or, as most recently a tie and a
constitutional impasse. The record of the heavily attended 1997 National Consultation on Sustainable Development
listed the following priorities: Human Development, Human Welfare, Planning and Resource Management,
Governance, Pollution, and Management and Mitigation of Natural Hazards. But the first five issues listed provide
another insight to the prominence of environmental concems in the conference proceedings: Poverty and
underemployment, Land use, Exploitation of wildlife, Health, and Waste Management.
29. As in many ICRs, significant points such as this one raised by borrower in their ICRs, or in comments on the
Bank's ICR, are seldom explicitly addressed by the Bank's ICR. This failure to complete that loop reduces the value of
the borrower's contribution and can give the impression that the borrower's views are not given full consideration in
the ICR process.



15
the Bank's role in the initial institution-building phase, which was only the starting point of a
long process.
4.11   EMA should be located in a neutral part of the government structure, or even
outside it, where there is no possibility of a real or perceived conflict of interest arising in its
environmental activities. It should be more detached from the day-to-day political scene where
its decisions can be based on technical and economic considerations without political factors
intruding.
Outlook
4.12   Much has been achieved in putting in place new organizations for environmental
management (EMA, the Environmental Commission, the Green Fund, and the Special
Environmental Police unit) and introducing some of the required institutional "rules of the game"
for EM (the EM Act and some environmental laws), but there are substantial issues needing
attention if the EM system is to be able to accelerale to full effectiveness. At the moment EM is
coasting along at a comfortable pace, without noticeable impact on major environmental issues.
Some knowledgeable environmentalists are skeptical whether the recent institutional efforts will
actually yield significant environmental benefits. There is a general belief in such circles that
there is less than fully earnest efforts being made in important areas of concern, and this
impression needs to be corrected. A determined effort to act on correcting past environmental
problems, as policy suggests is intended, is a high priority. The current environmental situation
requires an extended period of vigorous activity by EMA and others to make up the backlog of
concern on pollution and conservation issues before a steady state of environmental management
to the benefit of all is achieved. It is to some extent too early to know whether political will,
public support, and institutional resources are sufficient to make a real difference to Trinidad and
Tobago's environmental status.






17                                             Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO: ENVIRONMENTAL MANGEMENT
PROJECT
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal            Actual or            Actual as % of
esimate         current estimate        appraisal estmate
Total project costs                                    10.31               10.75                     104
Loan amount                                            6.25                 5.47                     87
Cofinancing                                             0.9'5               1.0                     105
Cancellation                                                                0.78
Date physical components completed                   6/30/1999           6/30/2000
Economic rate of return                                 NA                  NA
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
F95          FY96          FY97          FY98        FY99        FYOO
Appraisal estimate (US$M)
Actual (US$M)                                                  Data not provided by ICR.
Actual as % of appraisal
Date of final disbursement:
Project Dates
Original                          Actual
Initiating memorandum                                                                        04/22/1994
Negotiations                                                                                 01/12/1995
Board approval                                                  -                            03/30/1995
Effectiveness                                               07/27/95                         07/121995
Closing date                                                12/31/1999                       12/31/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual              Actual
No. Staff Weeks          USS
Preappraisai                           22.4                62.0
Appraisal/Negotiations                 32.3                87.0
Supervision                         .  71.2                192.1
ICR                                     4.5                13.0
Total                                  130.3              354.1



18                                          Annex A
Mission Data
Date       No. of   Staff days     Specializations      Implementatfon        Dev.
(month/year) persons     in field        represented           Progress        Objective
Identification/  04-05/94   5                    ES, EE, 00, EEg, Ag
Preparation
Appraisal      06-07/1994                        Ag, FA, EL, EE, EEg, TI
Supervision    12/10/95     1                    Ag                               S               S
4/19/96       3                    2 Ag, ES                        S               S
6/28/97       1                    ES                              S               S
11/18/97      2                    ES, NR                          S               S
6/15/98       2                    ES, NR                          S               S
1/11/99       1                    NR                              S               S
4/27/99       1                    FMS                             S               S
6/7/9         2                    NR, SL                          S               S
10/3/99       1                    NR                              S               S
11/29/99     3                     NR, ES, EL                      S               S
3/13/00       2                    NR, ES                          S               S
8/21/00       4                    NR, ES, FMS, PS                 S               S
11/14/00      1                    NR                              S               S
Completion    03/06/2001    1                    NR
Ag=Agriculturalist; EE=Environment Economist; ES=Environment Specialist; EEg=Environment Engineer; EL=Environmental
Lawyer; TI=Training and Institutions Specialist; NR=Natural Resource Management Specialist; FMS=Financial Management
Specialist; PS=Procurement Specialist; SL=Sector Leader
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executng Agency:
FoLLow-oN OPERATIoNs
Operation                                             Credit no.        Amount              Board date
(US$ million)
None



19                                        Annex B
Annex B. Supplementary Tables and Boxes
Table 1: State Of The Environment: Trinidad and Tobago" In 1995
Category                 'Key Trends'                          Management 'Challenges'
General                  ..an environmental deficit in the form of  Govemment as a catalyst for change-
pollution of our rivers and coastal waters,  Environmental Monitoring
the deforestation of our hillsides, the  Information/Inventories
degradaton of marine ecosystems and   Improved Management
wetlands, and the loss of scarce farmland  Public Awareness
to industrialization and urban        Industry Participation
development"                          Voluntary Compliance
Regulatons
Enforcement of regulations
THE LAND                 a. Soil contamination from waste disposal  Safe disposal of waste
b. Loss and alterabon of forests and  Land tenure and ownership
watersheds                            Recycling
c. Loss of agricultural productivity  Sustainable forestry management
Soil and water conservation
FRESH WATER              a. Drinking water supplies lost and quality  Watershed management
threatened                            Water conservation
b. Major river systems heavily polluted  Upgraded sewage treatment
c. Wetlands serious affected
THE ATMOSPHERE           a. Persistent localized air quality problems  Motor vehicle emissions
b. Global threats to T&T              Extemal air pollutants
Atmospheric change
COASTAL AND              a. 'Hot spots" of polluton and damage  Integrated management
MARINE                  (beach sand mining)                   Enhanced scientific effort
b. Tourism pressures                  Sustainable tourism development
c. Loss of coastal wetlands
d. Fisheries at risk
BIODIVERSITY             a. Degradation and loss of habital    Comprehensive inventories
b. Growing species lost or at risk    Compliance with intemational agreements on
c. Degradation of protected areas     biodiversity
Source: Environmental Management Authority (brochure)
Notes: * Noise pollution was omitted from this environmental benchmarking.
** Includes "greening" of govemment operations; rationalizing govemment policy-making and operations to ensure
efficiency and faimess in environmental management; ensuring that appropriate skills and resources are available to do
the job; strengthened enforcement of existing regulations; and working cooperatively with industry and the public.
Table 2 Status of Environmental Legislation Managed by EMA
Legislation                                                  Year       Adopted
Drafted
1. Waste Management (Solid Waste Disposal) Rules             2000
2. Beverage Containers Bill                                  2000
3. Air Pollution Rules                                       2000
4. Air Pollution (Fees) Regulations                          2000
5. Water Pollution Rules                                     2000
6. Water Pollution (Fees) Regulations                        2000
7. Environmental Code                                        2000       4/00
8. Environmentally Sensitive Areas Rules                     2/01       3/01
9. Environmentally Sensitive Species Rules                   2101       3/01
10.'Noise Pollution Control Rules                            2/01       3/01
11. Certificate of Environmental Clearance Order             4/01       5/01
12. Certificate of Environmental Clearance Rules             4/01       5/01
13. 'Hazardous Waste Rules                                   In-hand
14. Non-hazardous Waste Rules                                In-hand
a/ An evaluation of written laws and programs that address environmental issues with recommendations for
rationalization and modemization.



20                                        Annex B
Table 3 Actions on Internal Environmental Issues Identified at Appraisal (March,1995)
ProblemAIssue                                  Action (EMA, Annual Report, 2000)
I. Spillage and leakage of crude and processed  103 incidents investigated, mostly oil spills, of which Gulf of Paria
petroleum products                             spill took longest to resolve. Other outcomes not reported. Reported
2. Industfial pollution from other products, by-  on remediation criteria for gas station storage tank replacement.
products and waste
3. Sewage pollution (streams, rivers, swamps, coastal  Water pollution legislation developed and forwarded. Biological
waters and ground water)                       monitoring of fresh water (in cooperation with the University of the
West Indies) continued, but outcomes are not reported.
4. Air pollution (smoke and gasses from agricultural  Air pollution legislation developed. Responsibilities for drafting
and industrial sources, and vehicles)          vehicle emissions regulations agreed with Bureau of Standards. Diesel
fuel standards published for comment. Stack pollution standards
developed with stakeholders.
5. Solid waste (including unsorted hospital waste and  Demerara Road remediation completed (battery waste was used as
other hazardous materials placed in landfills)  road metal). Lead monitoring of (harmed) children to continue.
Otherwise, consultants recommended programs, technical work on
waste disposal and beverage container bill completed.
6. Illegal land clearing causing erosion (especially in  Not reported.
the Northern Range),
7. Quarrying of stone, gravel and sand causing river  Not reported.
pollution
8. Damage to soil, beaches and coast lines from  Technical input to data collection programs for Chaguaramas, SW
unsuitable/unauthorized development            Tobago and Point Lisas. Investigation of environmental impact of
development on Petit Trou Lagoon, Tobago (findings not reported).
9. Loss of, and damage to habitat and biodiversity by  Poster and essay writing competitions held in addition to "other
industrial and urban development               activities" by the NBSAP task force.
10. Wetland damage and loss (Caroni and Nariva  Not reported.
Swamps)
I1. Coral reefs damage (boat operators and tourists  Not reported.
12. Removal of beach sand for construction     Not reported. (Resolved in Tobago by imports.)



21                                   Annex B
Box A: Trinidad and Tobago's Environmental Status in 1995
"As a result of oil-based industrialization and continuing urbanization, Trinidad and Tobago faces a number
of environmental pollution and natural resources management issues. Major industrial pollutants include
crude and processed petroleum products which escape from wellheads, pipelines, road-tankers, processing,
storage, and loading facilities, and ocean-going tankers. The pollutants affect water (streams, rivers,
swamps, coastal waters and ground water), in turn impacting on water quality for human consumption,
fisheries and recreational aspects. They also damage soil, beaches and coastlines. Other industrial products
and by-products feature as pollutants with similar effects. Agro-processing activities (including sugar
milling and refining, rum and alcohol manufacture), result in water and atmospheric pollution (smoke from
cane and bagasse burning). Gases and particulate matter from industry and vehicles also pollute the
atmosphere (most of Trinidad and Tobago's vehicles still use leaded gasoline). Solid waste, which includes
unsorted hospital waste and other hazardous materials, are interred in landfills. The burning of combustible
solid waste at landfill sites also contributes to atmospheric pollution. Noise features as a serious pollutant,
especially to urban dwellers.
The major renewable natural resources management issues include uncontrolled clearing of forest and other
vegetation from hillsides, especially those of Trinidad's Northern Range, which results in soil erosion, the
consequential siltation of streams, rivers, and canals and, increasingly, flooding. The quarrying of stone,
gravel and sand also contributes significantly to river pollution - suspended solids not only silt up
watercourses, but [increase water supply costs].   Another casualty of Trinidad and Tobago's industrial
and urban development is the loss of, and damage to habitat and associated biodiversity. Two of Trinidad's
major wetlands have been damaged, possibly irretrievably. The Caroni Swamp has suffered incursions
from road building, solid waste disposal and dredging. The Nariva Swamp, a RAMSAR site, has been
invaded by mechanized rice farming [reportedly resolved later]. With its extensive biodiversity, with
species from both the Caribbean islands and the South American continent, Trinidad and Tobago has
significant eco-tourism potential but many ecological sites are unprotected and are deteriorating rapidly.
Tobago's coral reefs have already suffered serious damage from the activities of irresponsible and ignorant
boat operators and thoughtless tourists."
IBRD, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Environmental Management Project, March,
1995
Box B Extract From Government's Policy Letter (January 12,1995)
"The Govemment of Trinidad and Tobago is seeking the support of the World Bank for its efforts to
strengthen the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for national enviromnental management and to
develop the required institutional capacity to operate the new system effectively. The Government
considers the program as being of very high priority. This strong comnmitment reflects, first of all, our
concern to put in place an environmental management regime and supporting systems which will ensure
that as we continue to develop the country, the growth that takes place is sustainable and consistent with the
need for resource conservation and environmental preservation. Additionally, we wish to deal effectively
with some of the problems that have arisen from improper environmental management. These include
forest destruction (especially in the Northern Range); river pollution, irresponsible quarrying of limestone,
gravel and sand; water pollution, particularly in the west coast; soil pollution resulting from indiscriminate
use of agricultural chemicals; and improper disposal of liquid and solid wastes."
Source: World Bank, Environmental Management Project, Technical Annex, March 6, 1995



22                                  Annex B
Box C Project Components (Loan Agreement)
1. Establishment and operation of the Environmental Management Authority.
2. Implementation of a public awareness program on environmental issues and the importance of
environmental management.
3. Implementation of an environmental training program for the public and private sectors.
4. Carrying out of studies on: (a) a national environmental action program (NEAP); and (b) the
rationalization of the public institutional framework responsible for environmental management and
enforcement.
5. Carrying out of studies and other activities on environmental issues.
6. Provision of training and support, including, inter alia, equipment and supplies, to the Participating
Agencies.
7. Establishment of a national environmental management information system.



23                               Annex C
Annex C. Statements of Project Objectives
In the documents of some projects there are material differences between different documents as
to what a project comprises (e.g., in those for a project assessed in parallel with this one - The
Water Sector Institutional Strengthening Project). It is not clear why this is the case, although
there is probably a tendency for legal drafters to prefer looser language than may have been
provided by technical staff, and in loosening the language emphasis may change and activities
may be cut. In this case there are potentially confusing differences of emphasis, but with one
point of substance that figures in the assessment. This is whether it was intended that the project
would actually achieve environmental improvements, or just contribute to strengthening
environmental management institutions (both organizations and the laws, rules and regulations).
The main statements are compared in Table C 1.
Table Cl Statements of Project Objectives in Different Project Documents
Memorandum of the President (MP)     MP Technical Annex        Loan Agreement
I. Build effective institutional capacity to  Put in place the necessary  Improve (the Borrower's)
plan and implement sound           institutional arrangements  institutional and legal
environmental management (EM)      for regulation and       framework for environ-
management of the         mental management
environment
2. Complete a National Environmental  Define and support a priority  Define and implement a
Action Plan (NEAP) (to decide EMA's  environmental work     work program for
immediate priorities and future work  program, based on a   environmental priorities
program)af                         National Environmental
Action Plan
3. Strengthen the legal and regulatory
framework for environmental
management a/
4. Implement measures for improved EM
consistent with NEAP a/?
a! Numbers 2 - 4 in thee PR were described as "Other goals ........
Although the project Loan Agreement is particularly bland and open-ended in its interpretation of
objectives (possibly intentionally to allow wide interpretation without constraining definitions), it
is startlingly explicit in referring to "Define and implement a work program for environmental
priorities" (emphasis added). That would have been a Herculean task in the short time available
had it been taken literally by implementers. The MOP uses "implement" twice, but not explicitly
in connection with direct environmental impact, while the MOP's Technical Annex (which has
the most detailed project description) refers to supporting a priority environmental work program.
In no case are any specific priorities mentioned for environmental rehabilitation or improved
environmental management. Information on project content (in the main text) shows, however,
that the references in the various objectives statements to implementing environmental
management priorities were not followed up in the details of what comprised project components
and funding. To that extent the project objectives statement promised more than could be
delivered by inputs and the project concept and design were somewhat confused.
There is no guidance currently given to OED staff on which version of objectives to use to
measure outcomes against, but informal queries suggest that generally the Appraisal Report
version for "projects" (or Memorandum of the President for other types of operation) is favored
as being most reflective of the designers' intentions, while the legal document is recognized as



24                               Annex C
being the ruling version ultimately. This assessment derived a statement of objectives from the
MOP.
The ICR for the project took as "objectives" only the first two points in the MOP statement, but
also analyzed and rated outcomes by the project components as listed in the Technical Annex:
* Support to the MoPaD
* Operationalization of EMA
* Support to Participating Agencies
* Training and Training-related TA
* Studies and Planning Exercises
All outcomes were rated satisfactory by the ICR except Training.



25                                 Annex D
Annex D. Actions on Environmental Issues Identified at
Appraisal
(the Borrower is invited to complete this table)
Problem/issue                         |Action                  |     Comments
Environmental Pollution
1. Spillage and leakage of crude and
processed petroleum products
2. Industrial pollution from other products,
by-products and waste
3. Sewage pollution (streams, rivers,
swamps, coastal waters and ground water)
4. Air pollution (smoke and gasses from
agricultural and industrial sources, and
vehicles)
5. Solid waste disposal (including unsorted
hospital waste and other hazardous
materials placed in landfills)
6. Noise, especially in urban areas
Resource management issues
7. Illegal land clearing causing erosion
(especially in the Northern Range),
8. Quarrying of stone, gravel and sand
causing river pollution
9. Damage to soil, beaches and coast lines
from unsuitable/unauthorized development
10. Loss of, and damage to habitat and
biodiversity by industrial and urban
development
11. Wetland damage and loss (Caroni and
Nariva Swamps)
12. Coral reefs damage (boat operators and
tourists),
13. Removal of beach sand for construction









IMAGING
Report No.:         25406
Type:      PPAR



