Document of
The World Bank
FOR omaAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6460-TR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.25 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 6, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
tbeir offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = TTS 5.80
TTS1 = US$0.17
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CGCED               Consultative Group for Caribbean Economic Development
CV                  Curriculum Vitae
ECLAC               Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
EMA                  Environmental Management Authority
GNP                 Gross National Product
GoRTT                Government of the Republic of Trinidad and TIbbago
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
MoALaMR              Ministry of Agriculture, Land and Marine Resources
MoPaD                Ministry of Planning and Development
MoU                 Memorandum of Understanding
NAFTA                North American Free Trade Area
NEMSS                National Environmental Management Information System
NEAP                 National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO                 Pan American Health Organization
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
RSU                  Restructuring Support Unit (within MoPaD)
SA                  Special Account
TCPD                 Town and Country Planning Department (within MoPaD)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNEP                 United Nations Environment Program
WHO                  World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                                 Republic of Trinidad and Thbago.
Executing Agencies:                       Ministry of Planning and
Development.
Environmental Management
Authority
Beneficiary:                              Not applicable.
Pbwerty:                                  Not applicable.
Environmental Classification:             C
Amount:                                   US$6.25 million equivalent.
Terms:                                    Repayment in 15 years, including a 3
year grace period, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Commitment Fee:                           0.75 percent on undisbursed loan
balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                           See Schedule A.
Net Present Value:                        Not calculated - the project's goal is
optimization through cost
minimization.
Staff Appraisal Report:                   Not applicable.
A Technical Annex is attached.
This documcnt has a rsticWt distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thdr
offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I                                                I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBIUC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago for the equivalent of US$6.25 million
to help finance an Environmental Management Project. The loan would be at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, with a maturity of 15 years, including three years of grace.
The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) will be collaborating in the project,
providing US$0.95 million in grant funds in parallel to the Bank loan.
2.    The most recent economic report of Trinidad and ibbago, Report No. 10417-TR,
entitled 'Trinidad and Thbago: Policy Agenda for Sustained Development", was distributed
to the Executive Directors on June 23, 1992. A detailed Country Brief on Trinidad and
Tobago is available to the Board. A paper describing the Government's Medium Term Pblicy
Framework, which was presented at the 1994 meeting of the Consultative Group for
Caribbean Economic Development was also distributed for the Board's information.
A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is to be presented to the Board in conjunction with this
project.
3.    Sector Background. The twin-island state of Trinidad and Thbago has a total area of
5,128 sq km, and a population of approximately 1.2 million. The economy is still dependant
on the export of petroleum products which brought the country prosperity during the 1970s
and early 1980s but, following the fall in oil prices, national oil production decreased,
bringing economic recession to the country. As a result of oil-based industrialization and
continuing urbanization, Trinidad and Thbago faces a number of environmental pollution and
natural resources management issues. Major industrial pollutants include crude and
processed petroleum products which escape from well-heads, pipelines, road-tankers,
processing, storage, and loading facilities, and ocean-going tankers. The pollutants affect
water (streams, rivers, swamps, coastal waters and ground water), in turn impacting on water
quality for human consumption, fisheries and recreational aspects. They also damage soil,
beaches and coastlines. Other industrial products and by-products feature as pollutants with
similar effects. Agro-processing activities (including sugar milling and refining, rum and
alcohol manufacture), result in water and atmospheric pollution (smoke from cane and bagasse
burning). Gases and particulate matter from industry and vehicles also pollute the atmosphere
(most of Trinidad and Tobago's vehicles still use leaded gasoline). Solid waste, which
includes unsorted hospital waste and other hazardous materials, are interred in land-ifils.
The burning of combustible solid waste at land Mfil sites also contributes to atmospheric
pollution. Noise features as a serious pollutant, especially to urban dwellers.
4.    The major renewable natural resources management issues include uncontrolled
clearing of forest and other vegetation from hillsides, especially those of Trinidad's Northern
Range, which results in soil erosion, the consequential siltation of streams, rivers, and canals
and, increasingly, flooding. The quarrying of stone, gravel and sand also contributes
significantly to river pollution - suspended solids not only silt up water courses, but also
cause the nation's water supply company, which obtains the bulk of its supply from rivers, to
incur great cost to remove them. The Government intends to control the activities of the
often-illegal cultivators, who clear the vegetation to grow crops on the hillsides without heed
to soil conservation or fire control, and irresponsible quarry operators. Another casualty of



2
Trinidad and Tobago's industrial and urban development is the loss of, and damage to,
habitats and associated biodiversity. T~m of Trinidad's major wetlands have been damaged,
possibly irretrievably. The Caroni Swamp has suffered incursions from road building, solid
waste disposal and dredging. The Nariva Swamp, a RAMSAR site, has been invaded by
mechanized rice-farming. With its extensive biodiversit, with species from both the
Caribbean islands and the South American continent, Trinidad and ibbago has significant
eco-tourism potential but many ecological sites are unprotected and are deteriorating rapidly.
Tobago's coral reefs have already suffered serious damage from the activities of irresponsible
and ignorant boat operators and thoughtless tourists.
5.    Government's Environmental Pblicy. The Government of the Republic of Trinidad
and ibbago (GoRIT) recognizes that environmental degradation must be halted and reversed
before economic development, human health, and the biosphere become further affected, and
appreciates the urgent need to put in place the necessary legal, regulatory and institutional
framework. (GoRITs Policy Letter, dated January 12, 1995 is included as Annex B to the
Technical Annex). Currently, appmximately 40 separate pieces of legislation relate to
environmental management, many of which are outdated and lack enforcement. The
Ministries of Planning and Development (MoPaD); Agriculture, Lands and Marine Resources
(MoALaMR); and Health, play major roles but 25 other institutions also perform
environmental management functions. Concurrent jurisdiction among these institutions further
adds to an uncertain and confusing scenario. MoPaD was given the mandate to address
environmental management issues following the December 1991 General Election. With the
change of government, the role of MoPaD's lbwn and Country Planning Division was
expanded beyond its responsibility for land-use management to include drafting new
legislation for urban and regional planning, carrying out baseline studies to put environmental
information into the public domain and accessible to developers, and further strengthening
their ability to carry out environmental assessment. (The Division is currently receiving Bank
support for institutional strengthening through the Business Expansion and Industrial
Reconstruction Project).
6.    Ib address the issue of environmental management in the long term, GoRTT took a
policy decision to establish a specialist agency for this purpose. Following the preparation of
a Policy Brief (adopted by Cabinet in July 1993), a draft Environment Management Bill was
prepared during 1994 and, with the Bank's encouragement, released for public comment
during August-September (75 written comments were received). After some modification to
take into account the comments, the Bill was introduced into Parliament on December 20,
1994. The Bill was passed with minor amendments on February 21, 1995 to become the
Environmental Management Act (1995). A copy of the legislation is available in the project
files. The Act creates an autonomous statutory agency, the Environmental Management
Authority (EMA), which will recommend national environmental policies, develop and
implement policies and programs for the effective management and use of the enviroment,
coordinate environmental management functions, make recommendations for the
rationalization of the environmental management system, promote public awareness, set
national environmental standards, monitor compliance and take enforcement action, prevent
and control pollution and foster conservation of the environment and establish and coordinate
linkages at the local, regional, and international levels. In addition to establishing the
Environmental Management Authority, the Environmental Management Act (1995) also
establishes an Environmental Trust Fund as a mechanism to finance the operations of the
EMA. Appropriations budgeted annually and approved by Parliament will be transfrred to
the Trust Fund to help defray the operating and capital expenses of the Authority. The Trust
Fund will also receive monies from payments for services rendered by the Authority, fees for
permits, licenses etc. and grants and donations from public and private entities. The
Environmental Management Act (1995) has also created an Environmental Commission as a



3
superior court of record, which will hear and determine appeals relating to decisions and
actions of the Authority, and/or applications by the Authority for the enforcement of any
Consent Agreement or final Administrative Order. GoRIT recognizes that creating the EMA
will be the first move of many required to address the pressing environmental issues and,
therefore, will also focus on rationalizing the responsibilities and activities of the many
agencies currently involved in environmental management, and improving cooperation and
coordination among them.
7.    Project Objectives. The major goal of the proposed project is to build effective
institutional capacity to plan and implement sound environmental management in Trinidad and
Tobago. Other goals would be to complete a national environmental action plan (NEAP),
support a priority work program which would strengthen the legal and regulatory framework,
and implement measures for improved environmental management consistent with the findings
of the NEAP. These objectives focus on key issues facing Trinidad and Tobago at this time,
and the Government, the private sector and non-government organizations (NGOs) have all
expressed strong commitment to achieving these objectives as quickly as possible. GoRTT
and the major stakeholders appreciate that a concerted effort over many years will be
necessary to achieve these objectives. The proposed project will initiate and provide impetus
to this effort.
8.    Project Description. The major fbcus of the proposed project would be institutional
building thrugh technical assistance and training to help establish the newly created
Enviromnental Managernent Authority and bring it to full operational capacity as quickly as
possible. In this regard, the project would provide support to the Ministry of Planning and
Development (MoPaD) which, while taking responsibility for start-up of the EMA, will also
carry out the preliminary functions of the new Authority until it has become fully operational.
Priority planning tasks include the preparation of a NEAP, which will be used in conjunction
with other methods, as a basis to decide the EMA's immediate priorities and future work
program. Additionally, MoPaD in conjunction with other agencies, will expand public
awareness on environmental issues and provide training. It is proposed that the
Environmental Management Authority be staffed by approximately 20 professionals with
support staff, and would depend heavily on other public agencies, the private sector and
NGOs, subcontracting work nationally, regionally and internationally. Professional staff
would be recruited locally and internationally with preference given to appropriately qualified
nationals of Trinidad and Tobago. The project would also help to rationalize the activities of
government agencies involved in environmental management to avoid overlapping
responsibilities, fill gaps and strengthen key agencies to better implement the mandates of the
new agency. To this end, the proposed project would provide institutional strengthening
support to key ministries, agencies and government departments, (referred to as Participating
Agencies), and link them into a national environmental information network, under the
coordination and supervision of the EMA.
9.    The project, with an overall cost of US$10.50 million, would provide for:
(a) the purchase of computer hardware and software, and other office equipment and vehicles
(US$1.45 million); (b) about 150 person-months of international and local consultants
(US$2.21 million) who will prepare a NEAP, provide advice on policy, legal and technical
matters, and undertake studies on priority areas (as identified by the NEAP); (c) training
workshops, seminars, public awareness, curriculum development and environmental education
(US$1.80 million); (d) the cost of incremental salaries for staff contracted by MoPaD, support
for the Environmental Management Authority (US$3.27 million), and the incremental costs
associated with support to the Participating Agencies; and (e) operational and overhead
materials and supplies fur the project (US$1.77 million). UNDP will participate in the project
by means of two grants (totalling US$0.95). These funds will support many of the EMA



4
start-up costs being incurred by MoPaD, includini a program of priorty activities thereby
enabling the Government to move ahead with its program while Bank finance is being
arranged. Retro-active financing of up to US$400,000 would be provided under the loan.
Schedules describing project costs, financing, procurement, disbursement and processing steps
are attached, (Schedules A, B, and C). Schedule D summarizes the status of Bank Group
operations in Trinidad and Thbago.
10.   Project Implementation. Until the EMA is established and operational, MoPaD will
be the executing agency for the project. (It is GoRITs intention to inaugurate the EMA
during June 1995, but it is unlikely that the Authority would be fully operational before
September, 1995). An Environmental Task Force comprising 10 senior persons from the
public, private and NGO sectors was appointed on January 31, 1995 to guide MoPaD during
this period. The Task Force will be the precursor to the EMA Board of Directors. The staff
of MoPaD will be supplemented be consultants, (some to be financed by UNDP). Some of
the individuals contracted by MoPaD may be recruited by the EMA, as appropriate. The
EMA will take over as lead executing agency for the project as soon as it has become fully
operational. The Authority will be governed by an 11 member Board of Directors appointed
by the President of Trinidad and Tobago, on the advice of the Cabinet of Ministers. The
Board will be responsible for formulating the operating policies of the proposed agency, and
the Chief Executive Officer will be responsible for implementing them. The Board will be
accountable to the Minister responsible for the environment (currently the Minister of
Planning and Development), who will give general policy directions to the Authority. Until
the EMA becomes fully operational, MoPaD will be responsible for procurement and financial
control of the project, and to this end will make available its Restructuring Support Unit
(RSU), which has substantial experience of administering Bank projects. The EMA'
Administrative Division will develop the capacity to undertake the financial control and
procurement, to Bank standards, within the first three months of its operation's and the RSU
will provide training, advice and oversight of these activities during the life of the project.
During the project implementation period, the Bank and the Government will carry out annual
reviews to assess progress and establish priorities for the following year's program. In
addition a mid-term review will be carried out, and a post-project plan drawn up by GoRTT.
11.   Project Sustainability. The objective of the project is to create an institutional
arrangement which will survive in the long term thrugh agreement and consensus, built as a
result of a wide collaborative process. The new Authority will start small and build up
progressively, with modest objectives based on annual work plans. By selecting and training
a group of committed nationals, a team would be created with incentive and a resource base
built up over the medium term. Whereas financial support during the project period and
beyond will be provided by the Government, the burden on the Treasury will be progressively
reduced as income is derived by the new agency from fees fbr services, and grants and
donations deposited with the Environmental Trust Fund. Government is committed to keeping
the EMA relatively small in terms of professional staff, and, as mentioned above, the policy
of the new institution will be to buy-in services from public and private sources (both local
and international) as appropriate. Additionally, as a result of interventions financed by the
project, there would be increased economic efficiency within the various agencies involved in
environmental affairs, thereby reducing the burden-on the Treasury. Government's desire to
join NAFTA will put further pressure on both public and private sectors to improve
environmental management, which in turn will increase the need for, and may assure the
sustainability of, environmental management institutions in the country.
12.   Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. The Bank has not financed any
loans in the environmental sector in Trinidad and 'Ibbago. However, lessons learned from
projects in other sectors include the need to resolve basic institutional weaknesses within



5
government ministries at an early stage, and the need to recognize and cope with the
cumbersome regulations affecting contracting and procurement. The project would draw upon
these lessons by strengthening MoPaD at the outset of the project, and making use of the RSU
which, as mentioned above, has experience of Bank procedure.
13.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project provides a unique opportunity to help
shape a regulatory and institutional framework, and to assist in formulating policy to ensure
the integration of effective environmental management into Trinidad and Tobago's economic
policies. The proposed operation is consistent with the CAS (to be presented to the Board
concurrently with this document). Since Trinidad and Tbbago resumed borrowing from the
Bank, the primary objective of the Bank's assistance has been to support the Government in
its program to arrest the long economic decline, and to effect a structural shift to a diversified
economic base as the foundation for sustainable growth in incomes, employment and poverty
reduction. The first stage of the Bank's renewed assistance program was centered on direct
support for the formulation and implementation of necessary adjustment policies. Through a
Structural Adjustment loan and other supporting interventions, the policy framework has been
put largely in place, access to capital markets has resumed and macroeconomic balances have
stabilized. Correspondingly, the Bank's assistance has now moved towards addressing
selective bottlenecks to broad based growth and enhancing the economy's emerging access to
alternative financing, while continuing an active policy dialogue on the thrust of the reirm
effort. This has led tO a major shift in our assistance, from adjustment lending to the support
of institutional strengthening and investment projects. The centerpiece of the CAS is a
combination of instional strengthening, creating a strong infrastructure base, improving the
quality and productivity of human resources, and promoting an environmentally sustainable
growth pattern. The major theme will be continued support to the diversification of the
economic base towards a more labor intensive pattern of development as the means to
alleviate poverty and to improve the standard of living of the population on a sustainable
basis. Improved environmental management is integral to this strategy. The proposed project
would complement a number of existing and planned Bank lending operations. It would build
upon the valuable groundwork currently being put in place by the Business Expansion and
Industrial Reconstruction Project, which is strengthening MoPaD's Town and Country
Planning Division to enable it to specify and review Environmental Impact Assessment, and to
establish an Environmental Data Base. The proposed project would pave the way for a
number of projects proposed by the Government for possible Bank support.
14.   Actions Agreed with GoRTIT.
(a)    The Government has provided a policy letter (Annex B of the Technical
Annex) that (a) describes GoRITs objectives and priority actions for environmental
management together with a schedule for achieving these actions, and has provided an
assurance that adequate provision for local counterpart funding for the project has
been included in GoRITs Budget for 1995 and that adequate funds will be provided
during the project implementation period.
(b)    During negotiations, GoRfT assured the Bank that: (i) MoPaD would
implement the project until the EMA has become fully operational; (ii) the EMA
would carry out the project with the cooperation of the Participating Agencies, in
accordance with the Environmental Policy Letter, the Implementation Plan and the
NEAP. GoRIT also undertDok to (iii) maintain the EMA with responsibilities,
functions, structure, funds, faciities, management and staff, satisfctory to the Bank;
(iv) submit an annial report in September of each year which, inter alia, would
contain the finmcial requirements for the succeeding fiscal year; (v) review progress
of project implementation, jointly with the Bank, during October of each year;



6
(vi) employ consultants to prepare a mid-term evaluation report not later than 24
months after the date of effectiveness; (vii) provide a copy of this to the Bank not
later than 28 months after the date of effectiveness; (viii) hold a mid term review,
jointly with the Bank, 30 months after the date of effectiveness, and subject to Bank
request; (ix) submit a corrective plan of action within 60 days of the request;
(x) prepare a National Environmental Action Plan no later than 12 months after
effectiveness, and subsequently carry out the plan; (xi) prepare action plans to
rationalize the institutional framework for environmental management no later than 18
months after effectiveness, and subsequently carry out the plans; and (xii) follow
procurement and audit procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)    Conditions for Loan Effectiveness: Government shall (i) establish the EMA
by appointing the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer; and (ii) enter
into a Subsidiary Agreement with the EMA in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
15.   Environmental Aspects. The project is rated Category C.
16.   Program Objective Category. The Primary Objective of the proposed project is
Environmentally Sustainable Development.
17.   Participatory Approach. GoRITs initiative to improve environmental management
in the country stems from a groundswell of support for improvements in this area to which
the Government made full commitment during the last election. Since coming to power, the
present Government has maintained an ongoing dialogue with NGOs, trade unions and
business interests to confirm its continued commitment to improved environmental
management. During the Bank's pre-appraisal mission, meetings were held with NGOs and
representatives of the business community. The view was formed that there was general
support for GoRTITs initiative to establish a specialist environmental management agency.
The draft Environmental Management Bill was circulated for public comment during August
and September, 1994 - a first for any govermnent of Trinidad and Tobago. There was strong
public interest in the draft Bill, with over 70 written comments submitted by various
stakeholders, not only from the local community but also from the international development
agencies (comments were received from the United Nation's Environmental Program (UNEP),
UNDP, the World Health Organization/Pan American Health Organization (WHO/PAHO),
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the World Bank). During September-
October 1994, consultations were continued with stakeholders, with visits to the countryside,
to visit local communities. A special visit was made by the drafting team to the opposition
party's Parliamentary Caucus. Government is continuing the dialogue with stakeholders - in
particular allaying the fears within some industries that environmental management will
necessarily translate into increased costs. The Bank has undertaken to provide the
Government with examples of 'win-win' situations from other parts of the morld to assist in
this process. During implementation, stakeholders will significantly benefit from the project
through the public awareness, education and training components, activities that wmuld
encourage their further participation.
18.   Project Benefits. The proposed project would lay the basis for the improvement and
protection of Trinidad and Tobago's environment, by supporting the establishment of a
specialized environmental agency. The EMA would draft the necessary legal and regulatory
framework, and then monitor implementation and compliance to ensure that other agencies
and institutions (both public and private) improve their performance and better control
pollution, improve the quality of potable water, reduce degradation of the upper watersheds,
and dispose of solid and hazardous wastes in a more efficient manner - consistent with
benefits to human health and the economy. Project benefits, although unquantifiable at this



7
stage, are likely to be significant. Preliminary estimates indicate that benefits will far
outweigh costs, and experience in other countries suggests that benefits in terms of increased
GDP are typically three to five percent. In the Trinidad and Tobago context, every one
percent contribution to gross domestic product (GDP) through improved resource
management, improved human health, or decreased environmental degradation would have a
net present value benefit of approximately US$400 million. From that perspective, the major
consideration is project cost, and the approach taken during project preparation has been to
provide the minimum institutional structure that would be capable of realizing such benefits.
The net project value (NPV) of the project costs is US$21.85 million at a 10 percent discount
rate (of this, US$7.99 million is during the four year time frame of the project and an
additional US$13.86 million is due to recurrent costs over an additional 20 year time frame).
19.   Risks. Insomuch as Parliament recently enacted the legislation required to create the
Environmental Management Authority, a major risk to the proposed project as envisaged
during earlier phases of the project cycle has been averted. Lesser risks, associated with
possible delays in recruitment of professional staff for the EMA, and the procurement of
consultancy services, training and equipment during implementation are recognized and have
been discussed with GoRrT. To minimize the risk of slow build up of professional staff in
the EMA, Government agreed at negotiations to place advertisements in international journals
during March, 1995. The risks associated with slow procurement were also discussed with
Government, and it was pointed out that Government had created the RSU with the specific
purpose of speeding up procurement of Bank-financed goods and services, and that the RSU
vwould be available to carry out procurement initially and later, when the EMA would be fully
operational, provide support, as required, during the rest of the project implementation
period.
20.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Acting President
Washington, D.C.
March 6, 1995
Attachments



8                                   SCEEDULE A
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECr
Prqjec Cost
l ~~~~~~~~~~(USS  _,-    _Ch",
I             I              1               T Foreign as a
Component        |    Local    |   Foreign           Total    |_% of Tota
Project Start up (Ministry of
Planning and Development)      0.50           0.63           1.13           10.7
Environmental Management
Authority                      2.94           2.31           5.25           50.0
Participatig Agencies          1.72           1.48           3.20           30.5
Total Project Base Costs       5.16           4.42           9.58           91.2
Contingencies - Physical       0.26           0.18           0.48           4.6
- Price           0.07           0.18            0.25          4.2
Total Cost                     5.66           4.85           10.50         100.0
Financng Plan
(OM8 m5k, icWi.g co.iWmgm)
Total    I              I                   IBRD
Component              Cost        Government        UNDP    [   LOAN
Project Start up (Ministry of
Planning and Development)      1.23           0.14           0.65           0.44
Environmental Management       5.76           0.84           0.18           4.74
Authority
Participating Agencies         3.51           2.32           0.12           1.07
Total                          10.50          3.30           0.95           6.25
Percent Financing            100.00%         31.42%         9.04%         59.52%



9                                    SCHEDULE B
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMETAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement of Goods and Services
USS millions (including contingencies)
Project Elements           lCB          LEB        Other    |   Total
Vehicles and Equipment                     0.80         0.65 a        1.45
(0.80)      (0.35)        (1.35)
Materials and Operating                                 1.77 a        1.77
Supplies                                               (0.25)        (0.25)
Salaries and Labor                                      3.27 b        3.27
(1.50)       (1.50)
Consultant Services and                                 4.01 c        4.01
Training                                               (3.15)        (3.15)
Total                                      0.80         9.70         10.50
(Financed by the Loan)                    (0.80)       (5.45)        (6.25)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed under the loan.
/a Local Shopping
/b Not subject to procuement
/c Bank guidelines would apply



10                                   SCHEDUIE B
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Details
ALocatioa of Loan Proceeds
Amount of LOA
Allocated      Percent of Expenditures
No.             Category               (USS millions         to be Financed
- ____________________________ jequivalent)
1.   Vehicles and Equipment                1.10         100% of Foreign and
85 % of Local
2.   Materials, Operating Supplies +       1.75         100% of the first $1.0
Salaries and Labor                                million of expenditures,
75% of the next $0.6
million, and 50% of the
next $0.6 million and 0%
thereafter.
3.   Technical Assistance and              3.00         100% of Foreign and
Training                                          85% of Local
4.   Unallocated                           0.40
Total                                6.25
Estimated Loan Disbursements
1BRD Fiscal Year             1 1995   T   1996          1997   J   1998        1999
USS millions per year            1.06       2.17        1.64        0.96       0.42
USS milions cumulative           1.06       3.23        4.87   j   5.83        6.25



11                                 SCHEDULE C
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMETAL MANAGEMENT PROJECr
(a)    Tume taken to prepare project':                     3 Months
(b)    Prepared by Government with assistance
from UNDP, UNEP, WHO/PAH0, IDB,
and the World Bank.
(c)    Identification:                                     March 18, 1994
Pre-appraisal mission departure:                   May 10, 1994
(d)    Appraisal mission2 departure:                      June 30, 1994
(e)    Negotiations3:                                     January 25-27, 1995
(f)    Expected date of loan effectiveness:               June 30, 1995
1.     Support for the proposed EMA ws initiafly proposed as part of the Natual
Resources and Enirmental Management Project identified in 1993. Govrnint
irquested the Bank to support the formation of the EMA as a self-standing project in
Marh, 1994.
2.     Tho Bank appraisal mission comprised Bank Staff - D. Wholey (iC), W.B
Johnson, S. Jbss, and Consultan  - J. Ruitenbeek (ecoomics/taining), and M.
Gajaj (iomenal egineering/institutions).
3.     The Trnidad and Tobago delegation was led by the Hon. Dr. Lenny Saith, Minister
of Phnning and Development.



12                              SCHIEDLE D
TRINiDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECI
Status of Bank Group Operations
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
in Trinidad and Thbago
As of January 31, 1995
(US$ Millions)
Loan          Fiscal      Purpose               IBRD  IDA  Undis-         Closing
No.           Year                                           bursed      Date
14 Loans closed                                 133.36
L31520-IT(S)  1990    Structural Adjustment      40.00  -    00.00        12/31/92(R)
*L31530-TT     1990    Technical Assistance       4.00  -    1.54         12/31/95(R)
*L33280-TT     1991    Youth Training & Empl.     20.70  -    10.82       06/30/96
*L34320-TT    1992    Business Expan. & Ind.      27.00  -    25.62       06/30/99
*L37840 Tr    1995    Water Sector Inst Strength    25.00  -    23.08     06/30/98
TOTAL number of loans =  5                       116.70  -
TOTAL *                           250.06
of which repaid                  132.90
TOTAL undisbursed                              61.06
Notes:
* Still disbursing.
** Total Approved, Repayments and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive loans.
(R) Indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) Indicates SALJSECAL Loan.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department official data and are
not taken from the lask Budget file.



13                                          SCHEDULE D
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Trinidad and Tobago
As of January 31, 1995
(USS Millions)
- Original Gross Commitments -  Held    Held    Undisb
Fiscal Years                                                                        IFC      IFC                       by       by       inc.
Comitted                  Obligor                     Type of Business              Loan    Equity  Partic  Totals  IFC         Partic  Partic
1978                  a/ Canning and Company Limit Food and agribusiness              1.15                 -    1.15        -        -
1979                  a/ Carib Glasswords Limited  Industrial equipment and           1.20                      1.20        -
1987                      Home Mortgage Bank          CapitaL markets                           .41        -      .41     .41        -        -
1987                      Trinidad Nitrogen Company Fertilizers                      40.00        -  150.00  190.00   12.96   14.30           -
1989/92                   Development Finance Limit Development financing                -      .60        -      .60     .60        -        -
Total gross commitments b/                                42.35    1.01  150.00  193.36
Less cancellations, terminations, repayment & sales   29.39             -  135.70  165.09
Total commitments now held c/                              12.96    1.01   14.30   28.27   13.97   14.30            -
Pending commitments
BELLA FORMA                                                 2.00    1.30              3.30
Total pending commitmwnts                                   2.00    1.30        -    3.30
TotaL commitments held and pending commitments             14.96    2.31   14.30   31.57
TotaL undisbursed commitments                                  -        -             0.00
a/ Investments which have been fulty cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repsid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved end signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



