Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22393
IMI'LEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38630; SCL-3863A; SCPD-3863S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.25 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 20, 2001
ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
MANAGEMENT UNIT
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGION
THE WORLD BANK
This document has a restricted idistribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Trinidad & Tobago Dollar (TT$)
TT$1.00 = US$ 0.16
US$ 1.00 = TTM6.25
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 -  September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community Based Organization
CEC       Certificate of Environmental Clearance
CEO       Chief Executive Officer
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMA       Environmental Management Authority
EM Act   Environmental Management Act
EO        Environmental Officer
GORTT    Government of The Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
ISO       International Standards Organization
MBI       Market Based Instrument
MOPAD   Ministry of Planning and Development
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
MTR       Mid Term Review
NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
NEP       National Enviromnental Policy
NEIS      National Environmental Information System
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
OECD      Organization for Cooperation on Economic Development
THA       Tobago House of Assembly
UNFCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Sanuel Wedderbun



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
Environmental Management Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  12
6. Sustainability                                                                      15
7. Bank and Borrower P'erformance                                                      15
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      18
9. Partner Comments                                                                    20
10. Additional Information                                                             20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  29
Annex 8. Implementation Completion Report Mission                                      30
Aide Memoire
Annex 9. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                                   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P036007                                        Project Name: Environmental Management Project
Team Leader: Samuel G. Wedderburn                          TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Environmental Management Project                LIC/TE Number: CPL-38630;
SCL-3863A;
SCPD-3863S
CountryIDepartment: TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO                                   Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/22/1994                               Effective: 07/27/1995         07/12/1995
Appraisal:  06/30/1994                                MTR: 09/30/1997             09/30/1997
Approval:  03/30/1995                               Closing:  12/31/1999         12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN. OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Other Plartners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                     Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                               Nicholas J. Kraffl
Team Leader at ICR:   Samuel G. Wedderbum                       Douglas Wholey
ICR Primary Author:   Saimuel G. Wedderburn
Samuel Wedderbum
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Saisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfornmance: S
Borrower Performrance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The major objective of the project was to build effective institutional capacity to plan and
implement sound environmental management in Trinidad and Tobago. A second objective was to



prepare a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), support a priority work program which
would strengthen the legal and regulatory framework, and implement measures for improved
environmental management consistent with the findings of the NEAP.
Assessment. The objectives were appropriate, reflecting the inadequate institutional, legal and
regulatory framework for environmental management that existed in Trinidad and Tobago at the
time of project initiation and the need for more targeted management. They also reflected the
Government's development priorities, a major aspect being diversification of the economic base
while ensuring the environmental sustainability of economic growth. In addition, the project
objectives were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy for Trinidad and Tobago,
which emphasized the integration of environmental management as part of the support to
government's development policies.
This was the first environmental project to be financed by the Bank in Trinidad and Tobago. It
was challenging, risky and demanding of the Borrower for several reasons: (i) the key to success
was the inherently difficult task of establishment of a new organization, which would also become
the implementing agency, but needing to quickly adopt an institutional culture, systems and
procedures; (ii) staff with highly specialized skills was required in a field that was still in its
infancy in Trinidad and Tobago (for example, there were no environmental management courses
taught in the university); (iii) success also depended on government approval of policies and
legislation that were potentially politically sensitive; and (iv) it involved a number of institutions.
Despite the presence of these risks this project was timely and an important intervention for the
stage of development of Trinidad and Tobago. One benefit of establishing a new organization that
also implemented the project is a greater likelihood of continuity of the project's achievements.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were restated when the project status report (PSR) was introduced. The
revised objective below includes a list of the main activities that were contained in the President's
Report.
To support GoRTT's efforts to establish institutional and legal framework for environmental
protection. This includes; (i) establishment of the Environmental Management Authority (EMA);
(ii) preparation of a National Environmental Action Plan; (iii) carrying out a study for the
rationalization of the functions of public sector institutions responsible for environmental
management and enforcement; (iv) design and implementation of a training program for those
public sector institutions; (v) provision of equipment and supplies for them; (vi) design and
execution of a public awarness program on environmental protection; (vii) carrying out various
studies on environmental issues; and (viii) establishment on an environmental management
information system.
3.3 Original Components:
Component A. Ministry of Planning and Development - This component provided for the
establishment and startup of the project including establishment of the Environmental
Management Authority (EMA).
-2 -



Component B. Environmental Management Agency - Under this component the EMA would be
made operational with responsibility for implementation of activities in training and technical
assistance, and for executing studies and planning exercises:
Component C. Participating Agencies - This component involved strengthening the capacity of
other government agencies with responsibilities for environmental management.
Assessment: The project design could have been improved by incorporating environmental
management as a more explicit project goal, in more clearly defining the role of market based
instruments (MBI) and in adopting a less ambitious implementation schedule. The design reflected
the Bank's approach at that time towards capacity building for environmental management
institutions which focused on institutional strengthening as the central objective. The development
objectives and component activities were similar to those of other environment institutional
development projects approved in the early 1990's, notably in Chile and Brazil. Although the
implicit goal of the project was to contribute toward improving how the environment is managed,
which to some extent is reflected in the second objective , neither the weighting of the
implementation activities nor the monitorable indicators suggested this emphasis.
Where there is a weak institutional framework, the logical first step is capacity building,
strengthening both laws and institutions, which often takes time. In Trinidad and Tobago, with the
establishment of the EMA, the public expected an almost immediate impact in changing the
behavior of major polluters, which meant rapid preparation and passage of legislation to
strengthen the regulatory firamework together with an immediate emphasis on monitoring,
investigation and enforcement. This development was not anticipated in the project design but the
project was sufficiently flexible to accommodate these requirements. These issues are examined in
greater detail below.
Given the absence of an appropriate regulatory framework, greater emphasis was correctly placed
on first developing regulations for environmental management than on the use of MBI. However,
the integration and use of MABI such as taxes, pollution charges or tradable emission permits as a
policy tool, once the regulatory framework was in place, should have been made more
unambiguous in the project design.' Instead, the project only included an assessment of MBI
among the project studies in Component B, while their inclusion as a policy option in Trinidad
and Tobago's Environmental Management Act (see next paragraph) showed recognition of their
importance. [The regulatory or "command and control approach", however, was given far greater
emphasis in the project design.] Finally, the project implementation schedule required an
excessive number of tasks to be carried out simultaneously, which was overly ambitious for a new
organization. This resulted in delays on the completion of some tasks. For example, it was
unrealistic to expect that eleven studies would be completed within the first two years, while other
activities to make the Authority operational were also being carried out.
It should be noted that although the Bank now places greater emphasis on the use of MBI in environmental
capacity building projects, and their use is growing around the world, with the exception of pollution charges, they
are still not as widely used as advocated even in the OECD countries. For example, European countries and Japan
- 3 -



favor pollution charges, whereas emission trading is still mostly used in the USA in addressing air pollution.
Where MBI have been successfully applied, a regulatory framework is already in place, including regulations,
standards, permits and a system of monitoring and enforcement.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component               Cost          Rating
SUPPORT TO THE             $1,200,000.00       S
MINISTRY OF
PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT
OPERATIONALIZATION    $3,100,000.00            S
OF THE
ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
AUTHORITY
SUPPORT TO                 $3,500,000.00       S
PARTICIPATING
AGENCIES
TRAINING AND               $1,800,000.00       U
TRAINING-RELATED
TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE             X
STUDIES AND                 $700,000.00        S
PLANNING EXERCISES
The revision of the components in the PSR involved the conversion of two sub-components of
Component B (Training and Technical Assistance, and Studies and Planning Exercise) to
components, thereby creating five instead of three components. The revision was not based on
restructuring the project.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory based on (i) demonstrated ownership and commitment by the
government; (ii) relevance of the project to the need for strengthening the framework for
environmental management; (iii) assessments of key design features during preparation; and (iv)
flexibility of the project in allowing priority issues to be addressed during implementation. Local
ownership was clearly established as the need for such a project was first identified locally in the
mid 1980's, the concept then evolved from policy studies and consultations initiated by the
government of the day, which identified the key issues and constraints to environmental
management. The government also constantly urged the Bank to increase the pace of project
preparation, and obtained assistance from UNDP while the project was being prepared, to
- 4 -



facilitate drafting of the Environmental Management Act (EM Act). The Act was the legal
instrument for establishing the EMA, including the description of its functions, regulation of a
range of environmental effects, clarification of issues, assignment of responsibilities and enshrined
principles such as the polluter pays and the use of market based incentives. UNDP assistance also
helped in preparing legislation to establish a Trust Fund and an Enviromnental Court, equivalent
to a superior court of record, with responsibility for the administration of environmental laws.
The project was designed to address the weaknesses identified by the government's policy studies
and national consultative processes: inadequate legal and regulatory framework, fragmented
institutional authority, gaps in environmental information, deficiencies in environmental policy
formulation and planning, and insufficient resources for research and enforcement. The Bank also
infused in the design some of the lessons learned from implementing fourteen similar projects in
other countries.
A number of key issues were extensively assessed during preparation, including the possibility of
delays in passage of the critical EM Act; the number of activities to be implemented; establishment
of an Environmental Court equivalent to a superior court of record, which had not been an option
in any other country; and the preparation of an Environmental Code instead of a cross-referenced
inventory of laws, which might be less cumbersome and more appropriate. The Bank had also
mentioned the need for the EMA to focus on a number of activities of importance to the public
and business community in order to bolster public support. The project design took account of
some of the concerns raised during the reviews, but others were not reflected, such as reducing
the over-optimistic implementation activities and establishment of the court, which became risks.
The project work plan was made flexible by allowing for some activities to be programmed
according to the results of the NEAP that was expected to be prepared during the project.
However, the likelihood of conflict or overlap with the requirements of the EM Act [in regard to
the functions and activities of the EMA(see below)] was not considered. Consistent with the
project objectives, monitoring indicators were designed to measure outputs rather than project
impacts. The presentation of the components differed between the Main Section of the President's
Report and the Technical Annex attached to the Report, suggesting either three components with
two sub-components or five separate components.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The assessments and ratings in this section are based on the original objectives as the restated
objectives in the PSR were not a result of project restructuring. In addition, the restatement of the
objectives in the PSR includes a list of outputs that are discussed below in section 4.2 Outputs by
Components.
Objective 1: Building effective institutional capacity to plan and implement sound environmental
management. The achievement of this main project objective was satisfactory, significant
improvements were made: in the institutional framework for environmental management in
Trinidad and Tobago. The stated focus of the project was in establishing the EMA and bringing it
- 5-



to full operational capacity. By the project's closure, the Authority was operating with 38 trained
staff (18 more than estimated at appraisal, at which time it was stated that during the project the
required number of staff would be ascertained). In the final months of the project government
approved a new organizational structure and funds for employment of 34 additional staff (bringing
the complement to 72), which reflects the comprehensive functions of the EMA. The EMA is
already executing its core functions of monitoring, public education, information management and
enforcement on a limited scale until all relevant legislation is finalized in Parliament, (see Section
4.2). Furthermore, it is now considered a credible organization by other government agencies, the
private sector, NGOs and the public. Individuals who are respected in the field of environment
were willing to serve on its Boards, and environmental issues have gained considerable
prominence in public affairs. Although not directly attributable to the project, a Ministry of
Environment was established in 1999, which has as its main functions planning (linking
environmental concerns to national economic planning), policy and coordination. These functions
complement the EMA's role which is focused on implementation of the environmental laws. The
EMA still faces a number of challenges, which will be discussed below, but to make a new
organization fully operational and credible in a relatively short time is a significant achievement.
The project also called for strengthening government agencies (participating agencies) with
responsibilities for environmental management. This has been partly achieved as the organizations
still require capacity improvements (see Section 4.2 C below). Through the signing of
Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) a sound basis was established for cooperation and division
of work responsibilities with the EMA. The project also included establishment of an
Environmental Court (subsequently termed the Environmental Commission). The Commission
was not established until July 2000, several years behind schedule, and recently became
operational after Subsidiary Legislation was passed in Parliament (see Section 4.2 B below).
Objective 2: Preparation of a NEAP to Support a Priority Work Program: The second objective
of preparing a NEAP to guide a priority work program for the EMA was partially achieved. A
NEAP which described a broad work program for environmental management was prepared but it
was not based on formal prioritization. The Bank had earlier agreed to Government's request to
first prepare the National Environmental Policy (NEP) before preparing the NEAP. The NEP,
which was approved in Parliament in 1998, provided a comprehensive framework for
environmental management, specifying the objectives, key elements and principles for
environmental management in the country. Correspondingly the NEAP was expected to translate
this policy framework into detailed programs and activities for implementation. However, with the
presence of the NEP, together with the EM Act, the latter was used to guide the work program
instead of the NEAP. The Act is the legal instrument that established the Authority and contained
a comprehensive description of its functions, broad responsibilities and activities for
implementation. Many of these functions are statutory requirements that were monitored in
Parliament It was stated in the project mid-term review (MTR) that the project document ceased
being the main reference document in favor of the EM Act, which fortunately contained the main
elements of the project's work program.
For its part, the Bank accepted that the work program planned for the project was being covered,
although missions pointed out that it was still necessary to prioritize the country's environmental
- 6 -



issues, especially as resources were limited. But the experience in several countries was that the
NEAP was not an effective tool for defining a priority program, being replaced by priority setting
mechanisms that utilized technical and economic criteria for defining national environmental
priorities. The Bank therefore recommended that the EMA undertake a study to prioritize the
nation's environmental issues utilizing the available methodologies. Execution of the study was
delayed and it was eventually completed towards the end of the project. The results are to be used
in setting priorities for the EMA's future work program.
All but one of the key monitoring indicators identified at appraisal (prepare study of Innovative
Funding for stand alone environmental projects), and all those agreed when the Loan was
extended were achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The discussion in this section is based on the original components. As mentioned in 3.4 above, the
restated components in the PSR involved treating two sub-components of Component B
(Training and Technical Assistance, and Studies and Planning Exercise) as full components,
thereby creating five instead of three components. The revision was not based on restructuring the
project.
Component A. Ministry of Planning and Development. Startup of the project, including
formation of the Environmental Management Authority (EMA).
The Ministry of Planning and Development (MoPAD) initiated project implementation with
minimum delay and quickly established the EMA. This included appointment of a Board of
Directors, securing office accommodation, procurement of office and other equipment,
recruitment of staff, preparation of a medium term implementation plan and passage of the EM
Act. The Ministry was also expected to begin implementation of several priority activities such as
public education and awareness, preparation of the NEAP and a National Environmental
Information System (NEIS) study. Within six months of effectiveness, 28 staff were in place and
the EMA began implementation of its work program. Given MOPAD's achievement in quickly
initiating project activities, this component is rated highly satisfactory.
Component B. Environimental Management Agency. EMA Operationalization.
The EMA's functions included preparation of legislation to strengthen the legal and regulatory
framework, investigate, monitor and enforce compliance with environmental laws, coordinate its
activities with those of other agencies involved in environmental management, review
environmental impact assessments (EIAs), address public complaints, develop a national
environmental information system (NEIS), undertake public education and awareness campaigns
and carry out planning studies. This component was the most important part of the project,
encompassing the bulk of the EMA's core functions together with overall management of the
project. However, for the first eighteen months after its establishment, implementation delays
were experienced due to an overly ambitious work program, a steep learning curve of new staff
and the absence of procedures and systems that had to be developed. Subsequently the pace of
implementation increased significantly. The key outputs are summarized below:
- 7 -



EMA Operation. The EMA has been able to fulfill its statutory requirements and is seen as the
key environmental management agency. The Authority was made fully operational with an
appropriate organizational structure, staff, operating procedures and budgets in place. The Bank
also agreed to the construction of headquarters facilities for the EMA during the project, which
will contribute to sustainability by lowering accommodation costs. The most significant outputs
included preparation of the National Environmental Policy (NEP) and several pieces of legislation,
which are discussed below.
Strengthened legal and regulatora framework. The purpose of these activities was to strengthen
the legal and regulatory framework which is a prerequisite for sound environmental management.
With the fragmentation of environmental laws that existed prior to the project, rationalization and
strengthening of the legal framework was a major project goal, and became the single most
demanding task. The process began during preparation with enactment of the EM Act, which was
previously described. A comprehensive set of laws, standards and regulations was prepared during
the project, which the EMA will now' be able to fully enforce, including the following: (i)
Subsidiary Legislation (Certificate of Environmental Clearance (CEC), Water Pollution Rules,
Noise Pollution Rules, Environmentally Sensitive Species Rules, Environmentally Sensitive Areas
Rules), Air Pollution Rules and Solid Waste Rules (not yet presented in Parliament); (ii) National
Standards for water effluent, vehicle emissions, and diesel fuel have been finalized; (iii) Beverage
Containers Deposit Bill drafted and submitted for public comment; (iv) Hazardous Substances
Rules are under development; and (v) the Environmental Code (a compilation of existing
environmental legislation) was completed.
The pace of preparation of the Subsidiary Legislation described above was slow because of
limited budget for hiring consultants (see discussion in 5.2 below on the issues relating to the
annual allocation of capital and recurrent budgets), then parliamentary approval was delayed,
preventing the EMA from beginning to address the major sources of pollution, and threatening its
credibility with the public. This was compounded by wrongly linking approval of Subsidiary
Legislation with establishment of the Environmental Commission, which was delayed. In the
absence of this legislation, the EMA tried to engage the main polluting industries in voluntary
compliance but was mostly unsuccessful. Campaigns in the media, together with enforcement of
existing laws (see below) has drawn attention to the significance of the new legislation. The
private sector and government agencies now acknowledge the implications of the new laws and
have begun preparations for compliance.
Enforcement of existing laws. Some of the existing laws provided the EMA with the legal basis
for enforcement. The most successful intervention was the deployment of Special Reserved Police
(SRP) for enforcement of vehicle emissions standards and the Litter Act. During an eighteen
month period, the SRP issued 6,810 tickets and made 65 arrests for environmental infractions
under existing laws, compared with the previous annual average of 100 arrests for such
infractions. Although these were not the most important environmental issues addressing them
galvanized public support for environmental protection and served notice that the EMA could
enforce laws. This occurred later in the project, whereas the point made previously, and in the
section below on Lessons Learned is the need for this demonstration early in the project.
- 8 -



Other core functions. There have been several other important achievements by the EMA. During
the project, it reviewed EIAs on behalf of the Town and Country Planning Department.' A
complaints system was established that has received 980 complaints from the public, 539 of which
have been resolved. The EMA also monitors air and water quality, has undertaken remediation of
lead contamination at a squatter settlement, and administers four international environmental
conventions. A National Environmental Information System was developed which includes the
compilation and dissemination of basic information through a web site and annual publication of
the State of the Environment Report. The web site will eventually include information on
Certificates of Environmental Clearance which will add transparency to the EIA process. Linkages
need to be established with databases of other agencies, and the environmental data used in
contributing to sectoral and national planning. More traditional means of information
dissemination through the print and electronic media should not be ignored because internet
coverage is still relatively limited.
Prioritization of Environmental Issues. As mentioned previously, a NEAP was prepared but
finalized only in 1999, and accorded low priority. Also, EMA's management was slow in
accepting the Bank's advice of carrying our a priority setting study. The value of a formal priority
setting mechanism was aptly demonstrated when the study was eventually done. Water pollution
has always been widely acknowledged as the most important environmental problem, but the
study showed natural resource management issues, mainly watershed degradation, to be second in
importance, an unexpected outcome with implications for the EMA's work program which has
tended to focus on pollution control. EMA's management agreed to use the conclusions of this
study to prioritize the agency's future work.
EMA Training and Technical Assistance.
Improved human resource capacity. There was improvement in the capacity of EMA staff as a
result of formal and on the job training, including overseas courses and in-house workshops, on
topics such as investigation, enforcement and alternative dispute resolution, but the scope
envisaged at appraisal was never realized. This was mainly due to inadequate provision of funds
for training in the annual budgets approved by government. There is still a need for training
particularly with the proposed expansion in number of staff.
Heightened public awareness and concern. During the project environmental education programs
were implemented, together with awareness programs through the print and electronic media. The
educational programs included school curricula development and primary and secondary schools
competitions, while awareness programs included media campaigns, and support to community
projects. Although they were effective, there was scope for even greater impact of these
programs, based on project expectations, but as was the case for other activities annual budget
shortfalls posed limitations. However, the success of the programs is evidenced by stakeholders
indicating that there is now significant increased awareness of environmental issues among the
public of Trinidad and Tobago, some of which can be attributable to the project. Two
environment courses were introduced in the university, the number of public complaints to the
EMA increased significantly, indicating greater knowledge of its presence and role. Sample
-9-



surveys conducted in 1997 and 2000 showed a change in awareness of environmental issues
among adults and children by 40% between 1997 and 2000. Studies by the World Bank show that
public awareness and education are necessary and continuous activities in support of
environmental management, which have very high returns. Management of the EMA is aware that
these tasks include not only increasing awareness of the traditional issues such as pollution
prevention and recycling, but also of the new environmental regulations, and these activities have
been given priority in the EMA's medium term plan.
Under this component annual State of the Environment Reports were produced. These reports
have presented useful information but limited in quantitative analysis because of inadequate data.
There is a need to better define appropriate environmental indicators and to expand collection of
the required data. The EMA also administers four international environmental conventions
(UNFCCC, Montreal Protocol, Basel Convention, and Biodiversity Convention) in fulfillment of
Trinidad and Tobago's obligations.
EMA Studies and Planning Exercises.
The inclusion of studies was intended to contribute to the environmental knowledge base, assist
the EMA in identifying priorities, and contribute to broadening the scope of environmental
management to include economic considerations. Only four out of eleven planned studies were
undertaken mainly due to the following reasons: (i) initially the ambitious scheduling of tasks (the
studies were to be completed within the first project year); (ii) the limited staff capacity in the
EMA to supervise them; and (iii) low priority by management. The planned studies undertaken
were the following: pollution inventory, NEAP, NEIS, and beverage container deposit legislation.
Several other studies (not originally planned for the project) were undertaken in collaboration
with participating agencies, including environmental literacy, air pollution, and waste water
effluent standards. There were some effects on the project from not undertaking all of the planned
studies. For example, the outcome of the rationalization study was expected to influence
institutional strengthening of participating agencies (see below), and polluter pays incentive
studies were expected to explore the use of market based instruments as complements to
regulatory controls (one of these was done). The incentives study and economic valuation are still
required in order to provide the EMA with a broader range of management tools in addition to
regulations.
Component C. Participating Agencies.
The project was expected to strengthen capacity in 30 government agencies identified during
preparation as having environmental management functions. With the shortfalls in annual budgets
this component was given low priority by the EMA, and it was also affected by the ambitious
scope of the project. MOUs, which clearly defined roles, were signed with the 30 agencies,
including supplementary ones with eight (8) agencies that had the most significant environmental
management functions. Instead of rationalization studies to clarify the roles of each organization,
this was achieved through the Environmental Code. Through the MOU, coordination was
improved but as discussed below, the project has not significantly strengthened the agencies
capabilities for environmental management.
- 10-



Specific mention should be made of Tobago. At appraisal it was not anticipated that special
arrangements were required for facilitating the EMA's work in Tobago. In practice political
constraints turned out to be a major impediment and although some level of cooperation was
obtained the EMA was never able to fully extend its mandate to Tobago. It took nearly two years
for the Tobago House of Assembly (THA) to sign an MOU with the EMA, which occurred only
after a change of political representation in the THA in December 2000.
As expected each agency appointed an Environmental Officer (EO), who was to be the contact
point for the EMA, and for whom training was provided in investigation and alternative dispute
resolution. This strategy was only partly effective, at times the function of the EO appeared
nebulous, as the EMA did not have a specific set of tasks for them to execute, while many were
relatively low ranking officers in the organizations and could only have limited impact.
Because the rationalization studies were not executed specific training and equipment needs were
not identified (it was unfeasible for this to be done in the context of rationalization through the
Code). Moreover, the agencies were constrained by shortage of staff and operational budget
which limited their capacity to absorb training and equipment. This resource constraint was not
identified as an issue at appraisal and during implementation it was never addressed by
government. Given the budget shortfalls mentioned previously, the EMA also did not attach
priority to this aspect of the project. For example, Bank missions suggested asking the agencies to
identify their needs but this approach was never pursued.
Another issue was that Government mandated some agencies to earn revenue towards meeting
their operating costs by charging a fee for undertaking services such as laboratory analyses. The
EMA, which required such services, took the view that if the project provided training and
equipment to the agencies, such analyses should be undertaken on request, whereas the agencies
requested payrnent. This disagreement also contributed to the limited support to the agencies from
the project. The Ministry of Environment, which has all the key environmental agencies within its
mandate, is well placed to resolve these issues and also to improve cooperation among them.
Drafting was completed early in 2000 and they were first presented in Parliament in December 2000 for negative
resolution (no debate required as they were previously circulated and commented on), but before they could be
passed (the law required that such legislation remain in Parliament for 40 days), Parliament was dissolved for
national elections later that mronth. They have been re-presented in the new Parliament and CEC, Noise Pollution,
Sensitive Area and Sensitive Species Rules were recently passed, while the others are expected to be passed shortly.
3It has recently fully assumed this function when Certificate of Environmental Clearance Rules (included in the
subsidiary legislation described above) became effective.
- 11 -



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
N/A
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The influence of outside factors has generally been positive. The project was facilitated by being
implemented during a period of heightened concerns globally about the environment.
Internationally, there was a demand for the greening of industry and requirements that export
products meet specific ISO certification standards. This required local manufacturers, especially
exporters, to become more aware of environmental issues and several have introduced
technologies and processes to improve the environmental integrity of their products. This trend
complemented the EMA's role as firms realized that the new standards and regulations are part of
international norms.
Local environmental NGOs also became more visible and contributed to a greater public profile of
environmental issues. Specific high profile cases such as protests against proposed port
developments in Toco in east Trinidad and Las Cuevas, near Port of Spain which posed threats to
wetlands, helped to focus public attention on environmental issues and on the role of the EMA.
Local NGOs also drew public attention to the delays in passage of environmental legislation by
government.
Environmental management is still a growing discipline in Trinidad and Tobago and with private
firms introducing environmental management systems some specialized skills are scarce. The
EMA was able to recruit its staff locally but with competition particularly with petrochemical
companies, found it difficult to identify a few specialists such as environmental lawyers, and
resorted to hiring short term consultants.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Annual Budgets: The project was implemented during a period of tight fiscal control in the
economy which had a significant impact on the project. The major effect on the project was that
annual recurrent budgets approved by government were usually significantly less than required for
the project, which restricted the EMA's operational capacity (hiring staff and financing other
operational costs) and limited the rate of utilization of the capital budget, which was often more
adequately provided. Mid-year budget reviews often resulted in increased capital allocations to
the project, but these were usually provided too late to be fully effective. The budget shortfalls
were a major cause of implementation delays and resulted in the need for a one year extension of
the closing date. A significant effect was to delay the hiring and training of technical staff for
- 12 -



conservation planning, pollution prevention and enforcement. Government also failed to address
the resource constraints in participating agencies because of the tight fiscal targets.
Approval of Legislation: A second significant effect on the project outcome was the delay in
establishment of the Environmental Commission and passage of Subsidiary Legislation. Although
other laws were passed during the project, the absence of these instruments severely restricted
the EMA's ability for enforcement and was the subject of much public criticism, enforcement (in
particular in the main polluting industries) being the single most important criteria on which the
public was assessing the EMA's performance. Appointment of the Commission was included in
government's Policy Letter, which accompanied the President's Report, and was originally planned
for establishment early in the project. Bureaucratic bottlenecks, the fact that establishment of the
Commission was not the EMA's responsibility but the Ministry of Planning's, and perhaps lack of
political will, contributed to its delay as well as delays in passage of the legislation. Passage of
legislation was identified as a project risk but the implications for the EMA's enforcement
capability were not fully extrapolated.
Government Support: Apart from the two critical issues discussed above, annual budget
shortfalls, and delays in the passage of legislation, government support for the project was
generally positive. Government provided a higher share of counterpart funds than required, there
was no political interference in the operations of the EMA, and although there were delays in
decision making, by the end of the project most of the key actions required were eventually taken
or significantly advanced..
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management Effectiveness: The EMA has been able to maintain a solid core of skilled and
committed managers, who in spite of budget shortfalls and bureaucratic tardiness, were
instrumental in the project achieving its targets. There were two CEOs during the first eighteen
months of the project, but since then there has been no change. This has contributed to continuity
of the EMA's agenda and critical development of institutional experience. On the other hand,
management was slow to, recognize the value of NGO involvement and lost the opportunity of
building broader commitment and support through networking. There also appeared to be a
reluctance to utilize external technical assistance, for example to conduct training workshops,
although required skills vvere not available locally.
With the NEAP not beinlg utilized, and in the absence of an alternative formal priority setting
mechanism, there were no clear criteria for allocation of resources between alternative activities
when annual budgets were reduced. As a result, when budget shortfalls arose activities such as
studies, training and participating agencies were consistently placed lower on the hierarchy for
funding, without clear signals on the rationale for EMA's focus.
Compliance with loan covenants has been satisfactory, including timely submission of annual audit
reports. There were few delays in meeting other covenants and by the project's closure there was
full compliance.
- 13-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost is US$10.75 million compared with the appraisal estimate of US$10.31
million, a difference of only 4%, but the distribution among components is significantly different,
as discussed in the following paragraph. Although frequent mention was made in preceding
sections about shortfalls in annual project budgets approved, GORTT actually contributed $4.3
million of project financing which was 30% higher than the appraisal estimate of $3.3 million. As
a result US$0.75 million of the US$6.25 million in loan funds remained unutilized. Prior to the
start of the final project year, the Bank had recommended canceling a portion of the Loan but
Government expressed confidence that all the Loan funds would be utilized. Initial disbursements
were slow but increased significantly during the final two years of the project. The disbursement
schedule was overoptimistic for a new organization, with project implementation scheduled for
four years. UNDP's contribution of US$0.98 million was for the initial start-up activities.
Component                Appraisal       Actual    Percentage
Estimate      Estimate   of Appraisal
A. Ministry of Planning - Startup           1.13          0.30         24%
B. Environmental Management                 5.25        10.36        180%
Authority
C. Participating Agencies                   3.20         0.09           3%
Contingencies                               0.73
Total                                      10.31        10.75          104
The cost of Component B, Environmental Management Authority, was almost double the
appraisal estimate and comprises 97% of total project costs. The obvious reason for this skewed
outcome is the focus of implementation on making the EMA operational. This was the main
project component comprising a number of activities. While its cost was under-estimated at
appraisal, it was also favored in allocations when there were budget shortfalls. In addition, the
cost of the headquarters building, which was not originally programmed, was included in
Component B. Training costs of environmental officers, US$2.2 million planned at appraisal, or
65% of the cost of Component C, was also recorded in the EMA's account under Component B.
The absence of this item in Component C, a significant overestimation at appraisal, together with
the limited implementation of other activities as discussed previously, resulted in negligible costs
in the Component. There was less expenditure in Component A because once the EMA was
established it implemented the remaining activities expected to have been undertaken by MOPAD
and these costs also appeared under Component B.
- 14 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated as highly likely. The achievement of establishing the
Authority and the Environmental Commission together with revamping the environmental laws
seem unlikely to be reversed. Construction of headquarters facilities, with strong support from
government, does appear to reinforce the EMA's permanence. The new framework for
environmental management has gained wide acceptance in Trinidad and Tobago. The EMA is
publicly recognized as the key environmental institution and public awareness of environmental
issues has been significantly aroused, facilitated by the increased voice of environmental NGOs.
EMA's management has also shown a willingness to increase the level of civil society participation
in its operation. Continued government commitment is required and the autonomy of the EMA
needs to be maintained. Furthermore, the institutional framework was made more conducive for
the EMA with government's creation of a Ministry of Environment, which is expected to provide
clear policy direction and to improve coordination among agencies with environmental
responsibilities. Its introduction has also aroused civil society's expectations of government's
commitment to environmental management. The global trend towards greening of environmental
policies, with Trinidad and Tobago being an open economy seeking to expand its industrial base,
further encourages a conducive policy framework for environment management.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A number of actions have been taken in regard to the EMA's survival: (i) a Trust Fund established
under the EM Act to finance the EMA's activities is already operational; fees for permits to be
issued by the EMA, and revenues from fines for breaches of environmental regulations will also be
paid into the Fund, reducing the organization's dependence on government subventions; (ii) a
separate Green Fund was recently established which will be financed from environmental taxes
levied on company incomnes, to be used in providing funding mostly for community based
environmental activities, and potentially to support EMA's activities directly; (iii) in the final
months of the project GORTT approved a full complement of staff and provided the funds
required to hire them; (iv' the EMA's effectiveness in addressing the main environmental issues is
likely to be improved as it implements the findings of the environmental priority setting study,
prepared through a participatory process, thereby clearly defining and focusing its future work;
(v) management has begun putting in place mechanisms for the EMA to work more closely with
NGOs and CBOs thereby strengthening its support; and (vi) a five-year Strategic Plan has been
prepared with priority areas and monitoring indicators identified.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during lending is rated satisfactory. In 1993 the Bank responded to
Government's request for the provision of assistance in formulating a policy brief for
- 15-



environmental management, which was prepared locally, and became the basis for identification of
the project. The preparation teams fielded by the Bank comprised specialists with a range of
relevant expertise and experience from other countries where similar projects had been
implemented. The reviews of the project concept at different stages were insightful, identifying a
number of issues that became important during the project, although not all of them were fully
addressed in the project design.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank monitored project
implementation closely, including reformulating monitorable indicators when the loan was
extended, responded in a timely manner to requests from the Borrower and missions were
regularly fielded. During the course of the project these missions included a range of expertise in
environmental management, pollution control, environmental law, financial management and
procurement. During the first years of implementation missions focused on implementation targets
while in the second half of the project a more thematic approach included focuses on legislation,
emission standards and regulations.
One of the difficulties faced during implementation was in obtaining the Borrower's compliance
with agreements reached during supervision or through correspondence with the Bank. For
example, missions consistently raised the issue of budget constraints with the Borrower and
alerted Bank management, who also raised the issue at the highest political level, but with limited
response. Similarly, several missions drew attention to the delays in establishment of the
Environmental Commission and passage of legislation. The EMA was also slow to respond to
some agreements reached with missions, most notably in carrying out the priority study. The Bank
considered loan suspension for failure to meet key benchmarks on time but one of the difficulties
with this approach, would have been the counter-effect of delaying other aspects of the project
that were progressing successfully, especially during the critical final eighteen months of the
project. This issue is addressed below in the section on Lessons Learned.
A successful initiative by the Bank (not financed by this project) was a workshop in Port of Spain
on the experience of market based instruments for environmental management in Latin America
and the Caribbean, which was very important for the project, and attended by staff of the EMA,
NGOs and the private sector. Although technical advice was provided based on the experiences of
the Bank from similar projects elsewhere in the world there was still greater scope for
dissemination of best practices. This is one of the comparative advantages of the Bank and this
project would have benefited from greater infusion of these experiences. As the project provided
adequate resources for technical assistance, missions often identified the technical issues and
recommended that the EMA recruit international technical expertise to help in addressing them.
An MTR was undertaken as planned in 1997, comprising a consultant study managed by the
EMA, together with a Bank mission to review the first half of the project. However, this approach
was inadequate. The Bank mission was understaffed, lacking the range and number of specialists
required to undertake a comprehensive review of the project, with the output containing little
more information than a typical supervision report. The review should have also included
assessments with stakeholders, given the broad constituency being served by the EMA. Some
- 16 -



supervision missions did not adequately consult with stakeholders and as a result obtained an
overly optimistic view of the progress of project implementation. When meetings were held with
industry and civil society representatives they served to alert the Bank about some of the public
perceptions of the EMA and concerns of stakeholders. This led to recommendations to the EMA
expressed in several aide memoire including greater attention to coordination with other
environmental agencies, strengthening links with NGOs, and enhancing the public awareness
program. As mentioned previously, with prioritization studies becoming a more appropriate tool
for setting national envirDnmental priorities than the NEAP, Bank missions recommended carrying
out such a study to define priority environmental issues.
The Bank showed great flexibility in responding to the Borrower's request to utilize loan funds for
construction of headquarters facilities for the EMA, which was not originally envisaged in the
project design but became an important factor for future EMA sustainability. This is not a
conventional activity in Bank financed institutional strengthening projects; however, the Bank
correctly recognized the long term contribution to sustainability of having permanent facilities
thereby obviating rental payments which added to recurrent costs that the government has been
reluctant to fund.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Project preparation responded to the
country's concerns, the clevelopment objectives were appropriate for Trinidad and Tobago's
priorities for economic growth and development, and were consistent with the Bank's country
assistant strategy. The irnplementation schedule was ambitious but the output targets were mostly
achieved. The project was closely supervised with the Bank providing consistent technical advice
to the Borrower, being very responsive to changing circumstances in the country.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
With active participation from the Bank, the Borrower showed commitment during preparation of
the project, facilitated the process through the active participation of national counterparts and
requesting UNDP's assistance in preparing the EM Act. The early ownership helped the project to
become effective with limited delay and for timely decision making on key issues such as passage
of the EM Act and establishment of the EMA. In the context of possible resistance from industrial
pressure groups this was a commendable commitment to establishing a firm basis for
environmental management in a country quickly expanding its petro-chemical based industrial
sector. The Borrower's performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's performrance during implementation was mixed. On the one hand, several actions
suggested commitment and consistent political support for the EMA such as prompt appointment
of competent Boards of Directors, lack of interference in its operation, creation of a Ministry of
Environment, and provision of funds for construction of the EMA headquarters facilities. On the
- 17 -



other hand, the delays in establishing the Envirom-nental Commission and in passage of legislation
had significant implications as discussed previously, and suggest either lack of political will,
bureaucratic apathy or both. A similar mixed outcome occurred with respect to project financing.
The annual budget shortfalls, (and unresponsiveness to the Bank's interventions), delayed
implementation but is partly balanced by the provision of a higher proportion of counterpart funds
than expected. The Borrower's performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agencyv:
The EMA has performed well in managing the project while at the same time developing the tools
and processes required to perform its role as a regulatory agency. The structure of the
organization has been appropriate, the Boards of Directors have provided effective guidance and
the quality of management has been consistently efficient. Coordination with other sector agencies
improved during the project but was difficult, not least of all because the EMA is a new
organization on a similar hierarchy of reporting to the Minister of Environment. The EMA was
often slow to fulfill agreements reached with Bank supervision missions, to some extent due to
differences in the conceptual approach to environmental management.
Financial management reporting was good, adequate systems being in place and audit reports
were submitted in a timely manner. Performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Further evidence of the benefits of stakeholder participation. Although the benefits of
stakeholder participation are now widely acknowledged, it was particularly important for the
EMA which sought to change the behavior of firms and individuals. Through participation
information and cooperation that might not have been forthcoming is more likely to be made
available. Transparency in decision making is also necessary to give assurance that all interests are
being dealt with fairly. Costly mistakes and obstructions (from firms that have to comply) could
also be avoided. Also, there are some activities that with careful supervision could be delegated to
NGOs such as community level environment education.
Benefits of public awareness, education and publicity. Public awareness and education are
effective means of influencing behavioral change toward more environmentally sound practices.
The evidence from this project supports these findings which have been observed in several
countries. Publicity of the achievements of the agency also helps in building credibility.
Greater Dissemination of the Bank's Experiences. Although there is now a large body of
literature documenting experiences of different approaches to environmental management in the
OECD countries, less information is available on examples from the developing world. The Bank
is uniquely placed to disseminate these experiences based on the projects it has financed.
Resources should be provided for greater use of team members from other Country Units in
supervision missions and in reviewing project documents.
- 18-



The importance of credibility with the public. The establishment of environmental management
organizations raises public expectations. The lesson from this project is the need for such
regulatory agencies to quickly demonstrate their ability to enforce the environmental laws which
will address some of these expectations and engender public confidence. Public support is also
required to shield the agency from the threats of strong pressure groups and to influence political
decisions in its favor. A loss of credibility can seriously undermine the effectiveness of the
organization. This means carefully considering the sequencing of project activities, such as
enabling legislation if necessary, and ensuring priority is given to monitoring and enforcement.
Strengthen key aspects oJ the legal and regulatory framework in advance. Although it is
impractical to fully strengthen the legal framework in advance, it is often possible to identify key
pieces of legislation that can affect the project's outcome. During preparation, passage of the EM
Act was identified as such and it was passed before the project became effective. Key pieces of
Subsidiary Legislation also became significant as the delay in enactment affected the EMA's
enforcement capability. The recommendation is to more carefully consider the significance of
legislation during the project planning phase and to utilize project preparation funds to finance its
preparation where feasible. For example, this lesson has been realized with projects to establish
protected areas, and it is now recommended that where it is absent, the enabling legislation for
protected area establishment and management be passed prior to effectiveness (or appraisal in
some cases).
Greater clarity of project objectives and monitoring indicators. Recent analyses by the Bank
have documented its shift: from focusing on outputs in environmental institutional strengthening
projects to emphasizing ilmpact. In the case of this project, while the main objective was stated as
institutional strengthening the underlying goal was to contribute toward substantive change in the
management of the environment. For example, the project not only intended to strengthen the
capacity of the EMA but also to influence the behavior of various environmental actors through
the enforcement of regulations and to a lesser extent by provision of incentives. However, the
monitoring indicators measured specific outputs toward institutional strengthening and did not
include measures that would show changes in environmental management practices, for example,
the adoption of environmental management systems by companies, or changes in effluent
discharge by some of the main polluting industries such as quarries. The ICR mission sought
evidence of this impact arid found several which were mentioned above.
Clarity of the Bank's Role. EMA's management was more responsive to the requirements of the
EM Act than to the project document. The potential for conflict was lessened because most of the
project activities were included in the Act. However, a similar choice was faced when
recommendations were made by Bank missions, priority was given to addressing the requirements
of the Act, unless the Baink's advice directly contributed to the activity being undertaken. In
retrospect, given the significance of the Act as a legal instrument perhaps it should have been used
as the reference point. The role of the Bank as a partner and not just a financier should also be
clarified early in the project.
Importance of Priority Setting. The notion of formal prioritization of environmental issues was
- 19 -



very important for this project. The experience was that anecdotal evidence as used by the EMA
in identifying priorities, can be misleading causing important issues to be overlooked. A priority
setting exercise that is participatory also helps to build a constituency of support for addressing
the issues.
Relevance of the Local Political Context. A good understanding of the local political pressures
or prevailing policies is important in ensuring adjustments in project requirements, for example the
emphasis placed by the Trinidad and Tobago Government on financing capital expenditure over
recurrent costs.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
None Received (Borrower's ICR Executive Summary included as Annex 9)
(b) Cofinanciers:
None Received
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlWMtx                      Proected In last PSR                  ActualULatest Estimate
1. Tabling in Parliament of Environrmental                                   Done
Management Bil
2. Appointment of Environmental Task                                          Done
Force
3. Establisment of the Environmental                                          Done
Management Authority (EMA)
4. Appointment of EMA's Board of Directors                                    Done
5. Commencement of EMAs operalions with                                      Done
core staff in place
6. Consensus bulding and Pubic                                                Done
Awareness Program underway
7. NEP prepared                                                              Done
8. Preparation of NEIS Needs assessment                                      Done
study
9. Consultation between EMA and Pubic                                         Done
sector agendes to enter into MOU
10. Contract preparation of pollution                                        Done
inventory study
11. Appointment of environmental                                             Done
commission
12. Carry out study to develop database of                                   Done
projects with environmnental implications.
National Environmental Information System
Established
13. Design and cany out staff trairing                                       Done
program
14. Prepare study of Innovative Funding for To be undertaken during the operational  Pending
stand alone environmrental projects    phase of the project.
15. Prepare TORs and carry oul sludy for                                     Done as part of Environmental Code
rationalization study
Output Indicators: Not specified in President's Report
Output Indicators:
IndicatorlMotl                      Prjected In last PSR                  ActualLatest Estimate
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
;00 j0; XV f00 >    :XStSEWi-0;X^00- q:-2fxf;Apprattiisal:VS  Actualth.atst;  Pretg e of0
:: ": i  rojec Cos :Z By( j Copoen   U:}f;St:$ million j  :tUS$ imi:llion;  __________: fi;; ::;:
Ministry of Planning                                 1.13           0.30            26
Environmental Management Authority                  5.25           10.36           198
Participating Agencies                              3.20           0.09              3
Total Baseline Cost                                 9.58           10.75
Physical Contingencies                             0.48
Price Contingencies                                0.25
Total Project Costs            10.31          10.75
Total Financing Required             10.31          10.75
Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)______
pedItueCteoyIc                                     IC       S     tP         Ttl iCost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         3.22          0.00        3.22
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.60)       (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.01          0.00        4.01
(0.00)       (0.00)       (3.15)       (0.00)       (3.15)
4. Recurrent                 0.00         0.00         3.27          0.00        3.27
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.50)       (0.00)       (1.50)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         10.50        0.00         10.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (6.25)       (0.00)       (6.25)
Proect Costs by Procureent Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00         0.75         0.00         0.24         0.99
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.95         0.00         0.17         1.12
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.19         2.15         0.00         0.44         2.78
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Recurrent                 0.00         0.00         1.78         0.49         2.27
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
-22 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
_______________________  (0.00)   _  (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)(
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
_____ _ _  (0.00)     (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.19            3.85           1.78          1.34           7.16
_____ _ _  (0.00)     (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
'Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)                                 _       .__
Percenltage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoP.
Ministry of Planning      0.44      0.14       0.65      0.00       0.00      0.30     0.0    0.0   46.2
Environment Management    4.74      0.84       0.18      5.43       4.25      0.68    114.6  506.0  377.8
Authority
Participating Agencies    1.07      2.32       0.12      0.04       0.05      0.00      3.7    2.2    0.0
-23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:              __.
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
4/26/94-5/06/94              5   Environment Specialist
Environment Economist
Operations Officer
Environment Engineer
Agriculturalist
Appraisal/Negotiation
6/30/94-7/16/94             6   Agriculturalist
Financial Analyst
Environmental Lawyer
Environmental Economist
Environmental Engineer
Training and Institutions
Specialist
12/06/94-12/12/94           1   Agriculturalist
Supervision
12/10/95-12/17/9             1  Agriculturalist                     S             S
5
4/19/96-05/01/96             3   Agriculturalist                     S             S
Agriculturalist                    S             S
Environmental Specialist           S             S
6/28/97-7/02/97              1  Environmental Specialist             S             S
11/18/97-11/23/97            2   Environmental Specialist           S             S
Natural Resource Management        S             S
Specialist
6/15/98-06/19198             2   Environmental Specialist            S             S
Natural Resource Management        S             S
Specialist
1/1 1/99-1/15/99             1  Natural Resource Management         S             S
Specialist
4/27/99-5/03/99              1   Financial Management Specialist     S             S
6/07/99-6/16/99              2   Natural Resource Management         S             S
Specialist
Sector Leader                      S             S
10/03/99-10/14/99            I  Natural Resource Management         S             S
Specialist
11/29/99-12/0:3/99           3   Natural Resource Management        S             S
Specialist
Environmental Specialist           S             S
Environmental Lawyer               S             S
03/13/00-03/17/00            2   Natural Resource Management         S             S
Specialist
Environmental Specialist           S             S
-25-



08/21100-08/25/00            4   Natural Resource Management         S             S
Specialist
Environmental Specialist           S             S
Financial Management Specialist    S             S
Procurement Specialist             S             S
11/14/00-11/18/00            1   Natural Resource Management        S              S
Specialist
ICR
3/06/01-3/09/01              1    Natural Resource
Management Specialist
(b) Staff
|    Stage of Project Cycle                    ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               22.4                          62
Appraisal/Negotiation                    32.3                          87
Supervision                              71.2                       192.1
ICR                                       4.5                         13.0
Total                                   130.3                       354.1
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
; Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
K Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
I Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
N Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
ZI Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
I Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance               0 HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  OU  O HU
 Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Supporting documents can be found in the Project File.
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Memoire
World Bank/
Government of Trinidad and Tobago:
Environmental Management Project (EMP) Ln. 3863-TR
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.    This aide memoire represents the preliminary findings of a mission from the World Bank
comprising Samuel Wedderburn (Senior Natural Resources Management Specialist), which
visited the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago during the period March 12 to 16, 2001, to
undertake fieldwork for preparation of the implementation completion report (ICR) for the
subject project. A list of persons met is attached. The contents of this aide memoire were
discussed at a meeting on March 16, 2001 with Dr. Dave McIntosh, CEO/Managing Director,
Environmental Management Authority. The mission would like to express its gratitude to all
concerned for the cooperation received.
Background
2.    The EMP was conceptualized in 1994 against the background of a fragile framework for
environmental management in Trinidad and Tobago, characterized by inadequate legislation,
limited enforcement, dispersed institutional responsibilities and poor coordination among several
government agencies. This situation existed in an petrochemical-based economy comprised of a
number of industries with high potential for pollution, including petroleum products, amonia, iron
and steel, fertilizers, chemicals and sugar. The project was therefore an appropriate intervention
by the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (GORTT) to begin coordinated
management of the nation's environment. It also should be viewed as a time-slice in a longer-term
effort required to fully institutionalize effective environmental management in the country.
Furthermore, it is relevant that the project occurred in the context of a global demand for
improved environmental accountability and integrity of products and services, which was
particularly important for local exporters and the tourism industry.
Project Approach
3.    The model chosen by government was to place overall responsibility for environmental
management in a new autonomous body, the Environmental Management Authority (EMA),
which would be established under the project. Project activities would include revamping and
strengthening the policy, legal and regulatory framework, preparation of a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), supported by priority setting of environmental issues, a
public education and awareness campaign and establishment of an environmental information
system. Given the presence in a relatively small country of the highly visible polluters mentioned
in para. 2 above and other more localized sources, there were immediate public expectations that
- 30 -



the EMA would address the significant environmental issues affecting the country. Against this
background the project was successful in accomplishing its planned targets, the main objective of
putting in place an improved institutional framework for environmental management has been
achieved. It is too early to accurately estimate the project's impact in terms of achieving
fundamental changes in the way the environment is managed, and to separate those effects due to
the project from those due to other influences. Preliminary indications are favorable, the project
has laid the foundation for significant improvements in environmental management in the coming
years. As mentioned below, changes are noticeable in the public's perception and attitudes
towards the environment, environmental NGOs have become more vocal and visible, and the
private sector (perhaps more in response to external requirements) is beginning to adopt better
environmental practices
Establishment of the EMA
4.    Given the difficulties of establishing a new organization, it is commendable that the EMA
became fully operational under the project and is now taken seriously by other government
agencies, the private sector, NGOs and the public at large. Although it was never optimally
staffed during the project, due primarily to recurrent budget constraints, by the closure, 35 staff
were in place, including a highly skilled core, and government had provided adequate funds to
employ an expanded complement of 70 staff. The challenge will be to retain this core, given more
competitive salaries in the private sector for some specializations together with some unresolved
contractual arrangements.
5.    The EMA undertook a number of activities including: preparation of legislation, EIA
reviews, addressing public complaints, monitoring and enforcement, administration of
international treaties, public awareness and education, coordination with other agencies, training
and studies (the major activities are discussed in detail below). Although the work program was
to a large extent prescribed by the Environmental Management Act (EM Act), a more careful
prioritization of activities was envisaged in the SAR through a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP). At the same time, Bank missions were consistently informed that in addition to
fulfilling the deliverables of the EM Act it was also essential that the EMA address a number of
issues such as complaints being raised by the public, which required much time and resources (see
para 10 below)
6.    The project concept proposed a command and control approach to environmental
management, which was embraced by the EMA, but it also provided scope for studying incentives
based strategies for possible introduction in Trinidad and Tobago. In this regard only a study on
beverage container deposit legislation was carried out, but considerable scope remains for
examining the efficacy of market based instruments and the EMA now appears committed to
explore this approach. To this end, a background economic study on deposit legislation for
batteries and tyres has been completed.
Strengthening the Policy, Legal and Regulatory Framework
7.    Trinidad and Tobago now has perhaps the most comprehensive legal and regulatory
framework for environmental management in the Insular Caribbean. As required by the EM Act, a
National Environmental Policy (NEP) was prepared and approved in parliament in September
- 31 -



1998. An Environmental Code, which is an inventory and rationalizaton of all the environmental
laws, was also prepared and now allows easy cross-reference of relevant legislation. Water, Air
and Noise Pollution Standards were developed and Subsidiary Legislation comprising Rules for
Certificates of Environmental Clearance (CEC), Water, Air and Noise Pollution, together with
Rules for Sensitive Areas and Sensitive Species were also finalized. However, delays in laying the
Subsidiary Legislation in Parliament as a result of delays in establishment of the Environmental
Commission to which the legislation was linked, prevented the EMA from undertaking major
enforcement, and threatened to undermine its credibility to the public. To the public, the EMA's
main responsibility was for enforcement, but in the absence of the Commission and the legislation
it could not be effective. The Commission eventually became operational in July, 2000, and the
legislation was recently re-laid in Parliament.
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
8.    A NEAP was prepared as required by the project agreement but was not used as the basis
for identifying and guiding a priority work program. To some extent, this resulted from a
misinterpretation of this objective and the quality of the report. The view of EMA's management
was that the work program was dictated by the requirements of the EM Act and the NEAP then
became a deliverable required by the Bank. However, given the array of environmental issues and
the limited availability of resources, a process of prioritization was required. Towards the end of
the project a study to prioritize the nation's environmental problems was conducted and the results
are now expected to guide the EMA's work.
Monitoring and Enforcement
9.    During the project, monitoring included water quality of the Caroni River and several
beaches, vehicle emissions, air quality and groundwater quality. Some existing laws provided
adequate legal basis for enforcement, the most visible and successful action being the deployment
of Special Reserved Police (SRP) for enforcement of vehicle emission and the Litter Act.
Although these are not the major environmental issues, and consideration could be given to
delegating enforcement to municipal authorities, the use of the SRP served to galvanize public
interest in the environment and provided the evidence that the EMA is intent on enforcing the
environmental laws. In the absence of supporting legislation, attempts at engaging major polluters
such as the quarrying industry in voluntary compliance were not successful. Other pervasive
sources of pollution including the petroleum and petro-chemical industries have also not been
fully responsive to voluntary compliance. With the legislation and Commission in place the
Authority will be poised to fully undertake its role in monitoring and enforcement. The priority is
to recruit and train staff for these activities.
Complaints
10.   Addressing complaints from the public was another important but time-consuming
activity. This presents a paradox. Some of the issues raised by the public, although of significant
local importance, are not necessarily the nation's most critical environmental problems on which
the EMA's limited resources needed to be focused. On the other hand, the mission was informed
that responding to these demands was essential for the EMA in maintaining public confidence.
The EMA received 950 complaints (noise, fumes, garbage dumping, etc) and was able to resolve
539 cases.
- 32 -



Public awareness and education
11.   As a result of the project there is heightened public awareness of environmental
management issues. In addition to the actual presence of the EMA, this is attributable to the
public awareness and education program implemented during the project, which included media
campaigns, school curricula development, primary and secondary schools competitions and
support to community efforts. The improved awareness is reflected in the results of two surveys
conducted in 1997 and 2000 respectively, which showed an appreciable increase in environmental
awareness among children and adults, the number of complaints received by the EMA, indicating
recognition of its authority, and the greater attention given to the environment in the media. It is
believed that the widespread unawareness of environmental matters that existed required an even
greater effort. However, limitations were posed by budget constraints, which restricted the
number of staff hired and meant for example, that more creative advertising campaigns that could
-have been designed by specialized agencies were not affordable.
NEIS
12.   An environmental information system has been established in the EMA with increasing
amounts of information expected to be made available via the internet. The goal of linking
participating agencies to this database was not achieved, but it is planned to consolidate the data
currently held by these agencies into this database and to eventually provide electronic linkages.
Participating Agencies
13.   The environmental management functions of relevant agencies were to be rationalized
based on studies to be conducted early in the project, and the agencies' capacities strengthened.
The studies were not conducted and so rationalization of functions did not occur, however,
rationalization of legal responsibilities was achieved through the Environmental Code, and
improved coordination was accomplished through the MOUs between the EMA and 30 agencies.
Prior to the project there was very limited coordination among these agencies. The EMA is now
respected by the agencies and seen as the clearing house for environmental matters. A greater
level of coordination is now expected from the Ministry of Environment, which was established
during the project, and now has the main environmental agencies within its purview. Supplemental
MOUs were signed with eight of the agencies, which has established a sound basis for assigning
work responsibilities and for the provision of services to the EMA.
14.   Capacity strengthening, including training and provision of equipment was limited. Thirty
Environmental Officers were appointed by the Agencies and received periodic training provided
by the EMA. It was stated that equipment was not provided because the agencies did not have
adequate operational budget to take advantage of these inputs. This remains an important
constraint in some cases, and Government needs to provide adequate resources to enable the
agencies fulfill their mandates for environmental management.
Training
15.   The project has contributed to improving the national capacity for environmental
management through formal training and on-the-job experience for staff of the EMA and some of
the other agencies. The limited recurrent budget available annually restricted the full extent of
- 33 -



training and perhaps this item should have been placed in the capital budget.
Studies
16.   Four of eight studies planned were implemented: pollution inventory; NEAP; NEIS;
beverage container deposit legislation. Several of the studies not completed are still relevant:
economic incentives (only partly addressed through the beverage container deposit study); natural
resources and environmental accounting; and innovative financing. The potential use in Trinidad
and Tobago of a range of market based instruments should still be considered, as this approach
could provide economic incentives for limiting environmental degradation. It is also becoming
increasingly important to consider the value of ecosystem goods and services in national
accounting, which also helps to underlie the importance of protecting the natural resource base.
Alternative options for financing the EMA's future operation also need to be examined. These
studies can be conducted in consultation with the University of the West Indies where expertise
exists. As envisioned in the SAR, the results should then be presented in an appropriate forum to
policy makers and other key officials to illustrate the economic significance of environmental
protection, different strategies for achieving protection, etc.
Public Participation
17.   The EMA held public consultations as part of the process of preparing specific pieces of
legislation and the NEP, and while outreach was established with some NGOs a more formal
structure for participation of NGOs/CBOs, private sector bodies and other civil society
representatives was not created. This strategy was not specified in the SAR but was suggested by
several Bank missions. The benefits of participation are well known including assurance of greater
transparency, better cooperation (especially important for the industrial sector and NGOs),
building a broader commitment and eliciting support. EMA management now appears more
amenable to this approach.
Budget
18.   A recurring theme in the above analysis is limited annual budgets. Until the final months of
the project the annual recurrent budget approved by government was less than requested by the
EMA. The most significant effect of these shortfalls was in limiting the EMA's capacity: staffing
and overall operating costs. On the other hand the capital budget was mostly adequate but could
not always be fully utilized as a result of the limited capacity. There was no inherent bias in
GORTT's budget allocations against the environment, and oftentimes as a result of mid-year
supplementary budgets additional funds were provided. However, the timing of these releases was
not always appropriate, with the net effect being to delay implementation.
Project Sustainability
19.   There are several favorable signs that the EMA would be sustainable. The Authority is
now regarded with seriousness by a broad cross-section of society and with this public recognition
Government support is less likely to dissipate. The Environmental Commission has been made
operational. Government has shown commitment by increasing the EMA's recurrent budget by
87% for the current financial year to provide sufficient resources for hiring and training the full
complement of staff according to the new organizational structure. A Trust Fund is already in
operation (created under the EM Act) to finance the EMA's operation, and is expected to receive
- 34 -



revenue from permit fees, fines, etc., to be levied by the EMA, therefore, the agency would not be
solely dependent on government subventions. A Green Fund has been established to pursue
projects to address, reforestation, remediation and conservation of natural resources. The mission
recommends that proceeds 1rom this fund also be allocated for supporting the EMA's work
program. The presence of a Business Development Officer, to be recruited during the present
financial year, would also be instrumental in identifying other sources of funding.
20.   The headquarters building constructed under the project (expected to be handed over for
occupancy at the end of March 2001) means that the EMA has a secure and visible presence and
saves the cost of rent. Retention of skilled staff might be difficult if remuneration packages and
contractual arrangements are significantly divergent from the private sector. The expansion in
size and responsibilities of the Ministry of Environment, especially if it is able to play an effective
role in cross-sectoral coordination would also be a supporting framework for the EMA. As
applies globally, the need in Trinidad and Tobago for strong political commitment to addressing
the nation's environmental problem will remain extremely irnportant.
Lessons Learned
21.   A number of lessons are apparent from the project's outcome which will be explored in
greater detail in the ICR, including the following:
*     Careful consideration needs to be given to the sequencing of activities in establishing an
agency such as the EMA. In this case operationalizing the organization without the framework for
enforcement created a misrnatch between public expectations and the EMA's capability to address
important environmental issues thereby threatening to destroy its credibility;
*     The public needs to be well informed of the role, responsibilities and achievements of an
agency such as the EMA, given the direct impact of environmental management on people's lives
and livelihoods in a country the size of Trinidad and Tobago. This would also serve to elicit
support and engender more realistic expectations;
*     The well-known adlvantages of effective participation by civil society, in particular the
engagement of NGOs, were applicable to this project and can also serve as a buffer against any
resistance to enforcement that may emanate from either the public or private sector;
*     Key activities such as the passage of legislation, which might be subject to political and
bureaucratic delays, should be addressed prior to the project or strict conditions applied to the
timeliness of their enactment;
*     Priority setting is an important tool in directing environmental management not least of all
in ensuring an appropriate balance and coordination in addressing renewable natural resource
management issues and pollution respectively,
- 35-



Borrower's ICR
22.   The mission was provided with a draft of the Borrower's ICR and it was agreed that the
final report would be forwarded to the Bank by April 15, 2001.
Port of Spain,
March 16, 2001
Dr. Dave McIntosh                                  Samuel Wedderbum
Managing Director/CEO                              Senior Natural Resources
Environmental Management Authority                 Management Specialist
The World Bank
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Implementation Completion Report
for
the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
Environmental Management Project
Gover nment of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
January 5, 2001
Executive Summary
This document presents the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR), for the
US$10.5 million Trinidad, and Tobago Environmental Management Project. This project was
finded in part by a Worlcd Bank loan of US$6.25 million. This project became effective on July
12, 1995, and closed on December 31, 2000. The purpose of the ICR is to evaluate the design,
implementation, and likely sustainability of the project while identifying lessons learned that can
be applied to future projects. The principal findings of this report are summarized as follows:
Assessment of Project Design
In general, this project was appropriate for Trinidad and Tobago. The objectives were important
given Trinidad and Tobago's circumstances and the components were necessary to achieve the
objectives. However, there were some areas where the design of the project could have been
improved:
* -  The project design should have anticipated the increased expectations that the
establishment of the EMA would create and should therefore have included "quick fix" elements
to allow the EMA to meet those expectations.
*     The project design did not reflect a good understanding of the existing institutional
framework for the project, particularly the lack of human resources capacity in participating
agencies. The project should have created a better system to support an integrated and
coordinated approach to environmental management.
The initial project design did not clearly contemplate the critical role of the Environmental
- 37 -



Commission. Although operationalizing the Commission was eventually included as a project
component in 1999, it should have been included at the outset.
The initial implementation schedule was overly optimistic. Developing new institutions
requires processes that can only occur over time.
Achievement of Objectives
The project has significantly advanced progress toward its objectives.  The EMA is well
established and operational, subsidiary legislation has been laid in Parliament and should be
enforceable during the first quarter of 2001, and the Enviromnental Commission is in place to
provide the necessary redress under the Environmental Management Act. Participating agencies
and NGOs are still quite weak, and market- and information-based tools are lacking.
Nevertheless, the project has achieved numerous and significant accomplishments over the past 5
years.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
The most significant factors affecting implementation were largely the responsibility of
Government. On a cumulative basis, total government allocation to the project was equivalent to
the original budget. However, there were significant funding shortfalls in the earlier part of the
project that affected implementation. The failure to establish the Commission delayed the
development of the institutional framework considerably.
Sustainability
The project will be sustainable now that Bank participation has ended. Although there are a
number of reasons to be concerned about the future sustainability of the project, current trends
point to sustainability. The next year will be critical to the sustainability of the project. The EMA
has developed a prioritized work program with verifiable performnance indicators.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank and Borrower performance was satisfactory for this project. The Bank demonstrated
significant flexibility in adding two components and extended the term of the project. Concerns
about the Bank's performance include burdensome procurement requirements. Concerns with
Borrower performance relate principally to funding and the appointment of the Environmental
Commission.
Lessons Learned
There are a number of important lessons that can be drawn from this project. These include the
importance of strong institutional analysis and management systems, the need to recognize the
aspect of cultural change in environmental projects, the need to recognize that institutional
development is an iterative process that takes time, the need to establish incentives for early
compliance, and the importance of competent and professional staff to project success.
- 38 -



