Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. T-6460-TR
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.25 MILLION
TO
TRE REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
MARCH 6, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = TT$ 5.80
TT$1 = US$0.17
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CGCED                Consultative Group for Caribbean Economic Development
CV                   Curriculum Vitae
ECLAC                Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assessment
EMA                  Environmental Management Authority
GNP                  Gross National Product
GoRTT                Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
MoALaMR              Ministry of Agriculture, Land and Marine Resources
MoPaD                Ministry of Planning and Development
MoU                  Memorandum of Understanding
NAFTA                North American Free Trade Area
NEMIS                National Environmental Management Information System
NEAP                 National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO                 Pan American Health Organization
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
RSU                  Restructuring Support Unit (within MoPaD)
SA                   Special Account
TCPD                 Town and Country Planning Department (within MoPaD)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNEP                 United Nations Environment Program
WHO                  World Health Organization



TABLE OF CONTENTS    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page Number
1. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUESS.
A.    Background ...............................   1
B.    Pollution ................................... 2
C.    Natural Resources Degradation  .......         .............. 3
D.    Legal and Institutional Background .................. 5
2. THE PROJECT .6
A.    Project Objectives and Brief Description.                         6
B.    Detailed Project Features                                          8
C.   Estimated Costs and Financing Plan .15
3.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION    .                          .16
A.  Implementation Arrangements .16
B.  Procurement and Disbursement .17
C. Agreed Actions .19
SCHEDULE A - IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND MONITORING
INDICATORS .21
ANNEXES
A. PROJECT COST TABLES ............................. 29
B. GoRTT's POLICY LETTER  ............................  33
C. PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL FUNCTIONS  ... 45
D. UNDP PROJECT DOCUMENTS ......................... 49
E. GoRTT's COUNTERPART CONTRIBUTIONS LETTER .53
F. OUTLINE OF INTERIM OPERATIONS MANUAL .57
G. TRAINING AND TRAINING-RELATED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE . 65
H. PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE .87
I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES .109
This docnuent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






1. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
A. Background
1.    Trinidad and Tobago, with a total land area of 5,128 sq km, is located
at the southern end of the West Indian archipelago. Trinidad, the larger
island is 4,820 sq km in area and is within sight of the east coast of
Venezuela. The island's topography is dominated by three parallel ranges of
hills. The Northern Range, a rugged outlier of the Eastern Cordillera of the
Andes, the Central Range and the Trinity Hills in the south. Three major
river systems separate the ranges of hills, forming broad plains, two draining
westward into the Gulf of Paria (which separates Trinidad from Venezuela),
and one draining eastward into the Atlantic Ocean. Tobago lies 32 km
northeast of Trinidad and is 303 sq km in area. The island is dominated by
the Main Ridge of hills, which are most rugged in the north.
2.    Trinidad and Tobago's climate is tropical with a unimodal rainfall
pattern which results in two distinct seasons: a wet season from the end of
May to December and a dry season from January to April. As a result of
prevailing winds, rainfall is higher in the north-east quadrants of both islands.
Average annual rainfall ranges from 2,880 mm in the east to 1,200 mm in the
west. Trinidad, lying just south of the "hurricane belt", has not experienced a
severe tropical cyclone in recorded history. Tobago is less fortunate and was
seriously damaged by hurricane Flora in 1963.
3.    The nation's ethnically diverse population, totalling 1.23 million in
1990, is dominated by the descendants of people transported from Africa,
India and other parts of the world to labor on the plantations during the
colonial era (the indigenous Amerindian population became extinct during the
last century). Population growth-rate peaked at 1.7 percent per annum in 1985
and fell to 0.8 percent in 1990, due mainly to emigration. The capital city,
Port of Spain, has a population of some 80,000. Approximately three-quarters
of the population are urban dwellers, most inhabiting two conurbations -- the
Port of Spain-Arima corridor and the Port of Spain-San Fernando corridor.
4.    Petroleum quickly replaced agriculture as the mainstay of the economy
following the discovery of oil early this century -- Trinidad's oil was an
important resource to the Allies during WWII. Industrialization soon
followed, bringing increasing economic prosperity to the nation. As a result
of major oil and natural gas finds, the GNP per capita increased from US$960
in 1972 to over US$6,600 in 1982 but domestic policies of the time failed to
harness the windfall, and the subsequent fall in international oil prices, coupled
with declining national oil production, resulted in contraction of the economy.
In spite of improved economic policies, there has been little economic growth
in recent years, and estimates put the 1993 GNP per capita at around
US$3,250. A decade of economic depression, and structural adjustment has
contributed to increased unemployment (20 percent in 1993), and many people
have migrated, mainly to North America, to seek employment.



2
B. Pollution
5.    Trinidad and Tobago's major exports include petroleum products,
ammonia, iron and steel, fertilizers, methanol, chemicals, and sugar -- all
potentially polluting industries. Inasmuch as environmental protection was
not an integral part of the Government's industrialization policy, and without
effluent and emissions standards, there was no incentive for industry to
introduce the newer and cleaner technologies being introduced in countries
where pollution control was being enforced. Exceptions were industries
involving foreign joint-venture partners which adopted 'headquarters'
standards. Until recently, pollution has gone on virtually uncontrolled. This
situation has resulted in a number of environmental reviews which generally
concluded that the major pollution issues center upon industrial and urban
effluents -- mainly liquid and gases, solid and hazardous wastes, and pollution
resulting from destruction of forests in the upper watersheds. Recently, lead
and noise have been added to the list. Trinidad is more threatened by industrial
pollution than Tobago, where increasing volumes of sewage from the
developing tourist industry (the island's major economic activity) is beginning
to pose a threat.
(a)    Pollution of Water Resources with pollutants stemming from
industry is debatably the most important issue. Examples include untreated,
or partially treated liquid effluent from oil and petrochemical installations,
breweries and alcohol distilleries, sugar refineries, canning and packaging
plants; agriculture -- pesticide, herbicide and fertilizer run-off from
agricultural lands, animal and other organic wastes; urban areas -- detergents,
sanitary waste and raw and incompletely processed sewage; and activities in
the upper watersheds -- logging, forest clearing, agricultural activities, and
quarrying causing soil erosion and siltation of waterways; and mining --
suspended solids from sand and gravel pits. These pollutants enter streams,
rivers and wetland areas and, in some cases, percolate into ground water.
(b)    Solid Waste, stemming from industry and urban sources
comprising paper, plastic, metal, glass, vegetable and food waste, has been
identified as a priority issue. Whereas some recycling is practiced, current
policy is to dispose of the bulk of solid waste in landfills. Issues include the
prompt collection of waste, its method of transportation and disposal at the
landfills, and the possible effects of leachate, and smoke and gases from fires
at the landfill sites. Little is known about the environmental impact of the
landfills.
(c)    Hazardous Wastes are, in general, disposed of in the same way
as other solid and liquid wastes -- into the landfills or the waterways.
Humans, birds and animals routinely sift the contents of the landfills for items
of value and are constantly exposed to hospital waste, heavy metals and
noxious and poisonous chemicals.



3
(d)   Air Pollution is becoming an increasingly important issue as
industrialization and urbanization increases. Industrial sources of air pollution
include gases and particulate emissions created during the refining of
petroleum products; the smelting of iron, steel and lead; the manufacture of
ammonia, cement, and the transhipping of bauxite from Guyana. Agricultural
sources of air pollution include smoke and ash from sugar cane and bagasse
burning, and land clearing activities. Gaseous and particulate emissions from
vehicles are another source of air pollution in urban areas -- the majority of
vehicles use leaded gasoline, and catalytic converters are currently not
required.
(e)   Noise Pollution, especially on industrial sites and in urban
areas, has been an issue for many years, but its economic impact has not been
quantified.
C Natural Resources Degradation
6.    Overview of the Natural Resources of Trinidad and Tobago
(a)    Land in Trinidad and Tobago is classified on the basis of
agricultural suitability; fertile land suitable for the production of most tropical
crops (16 percent), (located primarily in the lower valleys and flood plains of
major river basins), land which is less suitable for agriculture because of low
fertility and inadequate drainage (46 percent), (including the clay soils of
central and southern Trinidad), and land with little or no agricultural value
(38 percent), (mainly poor, erosion-prone soils on hillsides, and waterlogged
soils in the estuarine wetlands).
(b)   Water. Rainfall provides 7.7 billion m3 of fresh water per
year. The scarcity of good aquifers in both islands results in heavy reliance on
surface water for potable and industrial uses - 70 percent of the nation's water
is drawn from rivers and reservoirs. Trinidad has two water-storage dams and
two river off-take facilities. Tobago has one of each type of facility.
Estimates indicate that current rates of withdrawal of water from rivers and
ground-water reserves (90 million m3 per year) are well within the limits of
resource availability.
(c)    Vegetation.  Before man modified the landscape, the islands
were almost entirely forested. Today seven types of natural forest still occur,
from the mangrove forest of the coastal wetlands to the montane forest at the
highest elevations of the Northern Range. Although much of the natural forest
has been cleared for agricultural, residential and industrial development, 60
percent of the country (307,500 ha) remains forested - although little of it
remains undisturbed. The State owns over 80 percent of the forest, nearly one
third of which is preserved with the intention of improving water catchment
and reducing soil erosion. A significant part of the non-agricultural land in
Trinidad is wetland -- including three large estuarine and two inland wetlands
(natural areas of grass and shrubs which are inundated during the rainy
season).



4
(d)   Biodiversity. The wide range of ecological types has resulted
in Trinidad and Tobago being richly endowed with fauna and flora. Over 100
species of mammals, 420 species of birds, 70 species of reptiles, 26 species of
amphibians and 76 species of fresh-water fish have been reported. Over 600
species of butterflies have been described, but the list of insect fauna is still
incomplete. The islands' flora is similarly diverse, and 2,300 species of
flowering plants have been described to date - 86 unique to Trinidad and
Tobago. Over 200 species of orchids, 200 species of ferns, 58 species of
bromeliads and 34 species of aroids are recorded. Many more species of flora
await identification and classification.
(e)    Coastal and Marine Resources.  Trinidad and Tobago's
Exclusive Economic Zone is 15 times larger than its land area, and is
economically vital to the nation's interests as some 80 percent of its oil is
obtained offshore. Marine conditions are strongly influenced by the huge
volume of freshwater which enters the sea from the Orinoco Delta, reducing
the salinity of coastal waters, and carries sediments which create turbidity and
prevent the development of coral in the waters around Trinidad. The nation's
700 km coastline comprises scenic cliffs, sandy beaches, and wetlands - the
base for a substantial fishing industry, as well as supporting recreational and
tourist activity. On Trinidad, the three major rivers have created estuarine
wetlands where their waters meet the sea. Tobago has a number of smaller,
ecologically important, wetlands.
7.    Natural Resources Management Issues. The islands were initially
exploited for their agricultural potential, and during the 18th and 19th
Centuries cocoa, sugar and cotton were the dominant crops, mainly produced
under the plantation system. Later, citrus, coffee, coconuts and tonka beans
became important. Most of the better soils of the plains, undulating hills and
foothills of the western end of the Northern Range were under plantations by
the end of the last century. Forests were exploited for their timber for mainly
local use, as the hardness of many of the local woods discouraged European
importers. When industrialization got under way after the discovery of oil at
the turn of the century, on-shore installations, storage and loading facilities
and eventually petrochemical refineries were constructed. The availability of
oil and natural gas soon attracted metal and chemical industries, and together
with the rapid urbanization of the country during the "oil-boom" of the 1970s
and 80s, the stage was set for the rapid deterioration of the nation's renewable
natural resources. Important natural resources management issues include the
following:
(a)    Soil and Water Conservation.  The deforestation of hillsides
through logging, land clearing for agriculture, quarrying, and property
development has resulted in soil erosion, leaving large areas of barren hillsides
which are unable to retain rainfall, resulting in flash floods, injuries and loss
of life and property damage. The burden of suspended solids in the rivers
clog the filters of the water pumps of the Water and Sewerage Authority
(responsible for providing the nation's water supply), adding significantly to
the agency's operating costs, and reducing the quality of the water.



5
(b)   Loss of Ecosystems and Biodiversity. The destruction of
ecosystems caused by agricultural, industrial, and urban development has put
many species of plants and animals under threat of extinction. In common
with other countries, Trinidad and Tobago traditionally regarded wetlands as
waste-areas, suitable for industrial development, and one of the nation's major
landfills is located on the margins of the Caroni Swamp, a major wetland --
which includes a nature reserve that Government plans to establish as a
national park. The actions of many of the inhabitants of the country have
seriously impacted on the nationl's biodiversity. Sea-turtles were traditionally
regarded as a free source of meat, and the animals were killed indiscriminately
as they came on to the beaches to lay their eggs. Hunters shot and trapped the
large mammals and birds of the forest for the much prized game meat -- often
disregarding close-seasons, and setting trap-guns which kill and maim
indiscriminately. Tiny song-birds were captured for sale to local and overseas
caged-bird enthusiasts. River pollution has reduced the populations of fish,
amphibians and mammals (e.g the maniatee) in the nation's streams, rivers,
wetlands, and coastal waters. The famous Buccoo marine reef off the coast of
Tobago has been seriously damaged by human activity -- particularly boat
operators. Facilities for the proper treatment of sewage and other liquid
effluent from the increasing number of hotels on the coast adjacent to the reef
are inadequate, further endangering the reef.
(c)    Sand Mining. In Tobago, the construction industry has
traditionally used beach-sand. With the recent expansion in tourism
infrastructure it has been suggested the rate of usage is exceeding the rate of
natural replenishment, with the real danger of depleting a valuable tourism
resource.  With the likelihood of additional hotels, holiday apartments and
infrastructure it is foreseeable that the construction industry may erode the
very beaches which attract the tourists.
D. Legal and Institutionial Background
8.    In the past, there has been no integrated approach to the management
of the environment in Trinidad and Tobago, the concept being more associated
with conservation of wildlife and nature preservation than with pollution
control. However recent governments have become increasingly aware of
environmental issues, sensitized initially by the UN Conference on the Human
Environment (Stockholm 1972). Since that time successive governments have
attempted to formulate environmental policy, enact environmental legislation
and design systems to manage the environment. Environmental Protection
Bills were drafted in 1976 and 1989, but were never brought to Parliament.
9.    As environmental issues became of increasing importance, institutional
responsibilities for environmental management changed. Following the
Stockholm Conference, an Institute for Marine Affairs was established with
some environmental responsibilities, (mainly involving collection, analysis and
dissemination of information). During the 1970s, responsibility for the
environment was switched back and forth between the Ministries of
Agriculture and Health until, in 1981, the latter became the Ministry of Health



6
and the Environment: the first time that the word "Environment" achieved
such a high profile. National consultations, studies and reports carried out by
PAHO (1987, 1991), the Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ECLAC) in conjunction with UNEP (1988), and IDB (1992), urged
GoRIT to create a specialized agency to manage the nation's environment.
Successive governments responded in various ways, by appointing committees,
holding consultations etc., and in 1989, the government of the day took the
major step of establishing the Ministry of Environment and National Service,
transferring the Environmental Management and Forestry Divisions from the
Ministry of Food Production and Marine Exploitation. A change of
government in 1991 brought a strong commitment to improve environmental
management, consistent with an election pledge. The Ministry of the
Environment and National Service of the previous government was disbanded
and the environmental portfolio transferred to the MoPaD, to integrate
environmental management with the planning and development portfolio,
thereby giving the environmental agenda greater leverage and focus. As part
of this process, MoPaD's Town and Country Planning Division was made
responsible for environmental impact assessment'. The new Government took
advantage of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development
(Rio de Janeiro - June 1992), as an opportunity to present its National Report
on Environment and Development in which it gave an undertaking to
develop a new legal and institutional framework for the management of the
nation's environment.
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Brief Description
Current Program of Reforms in the Policy, Legal and Institutionial
Framework for Environmental Management
10.   The Government has embarked upon a comprehensive overhaul of the
policy, legal and institutional framework for environmental management. The
Minister of Planning and Development is currently responsible for the
environmental portfolio. In addition to the Ministry of Planning and
Development, 27 other government agencies are involved in environment-
related activities (see Annex C), acting largely in a policy vacuum and without
central coordination. Recognizing both of these drawbacks, MoPaD, using
funds from the World Bank Technical Assistance Loan, engaged a consultant
in 1992 to coordinate the establishment of a specialized agency for the
management of the nation's environment. The decision to create an agency
outside of the ministerial structure was taken for a number of reasons,
including greater flexibility in procurement and recruitment regulations and
1.    The capacity of the TCPD to undertake and provide training in EIA is currently
being strengthened by the World Bank financed Business Expansion and Industrial
Reconstruction Project.



7
improved terms and conditions of employment and remuneration. It was also
considered important that the agency should be insulated as far as possible
from political influence. This institutional arrangement also provides for a
greater degree of involvement of environmental stakeholders outside of
government (including the private sector and the NGOs).
11.   After meeting stakeholders and reviewing relevant reports, the
consultant prepared a Policy Brief which provided profiles on the current
situation vis a vis environmental management and legislation, recommended an
interim environmental policy, and identified the steps necessary to establish the
environmental agency as a statutory body. The document emphasized the need
for new legislation to establish the new agency, outlined a management
framework and recommended an action plan to bring all of this into being.
The Policy Brief was submitted to Cabinet in March 1993, which adopted its
recommendations, and directed that legislation be drafted to create an agency
to be known as the Environmental Management Authority (EMA). Shortly
after, work began on drafting the Environmental Management Act with the
assistance of a UNDP consultant.
12.   To address the lack of a national environmental policy the Policy Brief
recommended that Government adopt a "mission statement" as an interim
policy before empowering the proposed EMA to formulate a national
environmental policy. Cabinet accepted this recommendation. The
Environmental Management Act makes provision for the proposed EMA to
play a major role in the preparation of environmental policy for government's
consideration and enactment. A Policy Letter (Annex B) clarifies GoRTT's
long term policy objectives for the environment.
13.   Currently, there are approximately 40 pieces of legislation that have
relevance to environmental management. Many of these overlap resulting in
conflicting responsibilities among agencies, and much of the legislation is in
need of redrafting. It is Government's intention to resolve this unsatisfactory
situation and the Environmental Management Act makes specific provision for
the EMA to take responsibility for reviewing, updating and where necessary
preparing new legislation.
14.   The draft Environmental Management Bill was circulated by
Government for public comment during August and September 1994.
Seventy five written comments were received. After revising the draft to
incorporate many of the suggestions resulting from the public review process,
and after obtaining the clearance of the Legislative Review Committee, the
final draft was tabled before Parliament on December 20, 1994. After debates
in the Senate and later the Lower House, the Bill was finally passed with some
amendments on February 21, 1995.
15.   Project Objectives. In support of Government's environmental policy,
the proposed Environmental Management Project has two main objectives:



8
*     To put in place the necessary institutional arrangements for the
regulation, and management of the environment.
*     To define, and support a priority environmental work program,
based on a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
16.   Main Features cf the Project. A matrix of key project activities is
shown as Schedule A, and the Project Implementation Schedules as Annex I.
In order to address the above objectives, the project would provide support
for:
*     MoPaD to oversee the operationalization of the
Environimental Management Authority, including recruitment
of key professional staff, and to initiate key activities.
*     the Environmental Management Authority to enable the new
agency to recruit staff, procure equipment, undertake studies
and become fully operational as quickly as possible;
*     agencies involved in the implementation of the EMA's
mandates (referred to as Participating Agencies).
*     Traiiiiiig and Technical Assistance to the EMA and
Participating Agencies, and;
*     Studies and formulating Plans.
B. Detailed Project Features
17.   Support to the Mlinistry of Planning and Development (US$1.23
million, over 12 months). The proposed project would support MoPaD to
begin a public awareness program, start-up a number of key studies, and
operationalize the new agency. To assist the MoPaD staff, the project would
provide both long and short-term consultants (some of the UNDP grant is
already being used to finance a Senior Adviser and some short term inputs).
The work of MoPaD, in this regard, will be overseen by an Environmental
Task Force2 comprising 10 senior persons from the public, private and NGO
sectors. MoPaD will focus on the following key activities:
*     a public-awareness program intended to impress the importance
of sound environmental management on all strata of society;
*     an environmental training program for the public and private
sectors, at all levels of staff seniority and including
Parliamentarians;
2.    It is likely that some of the individuals nominated to the Environmental Task Force
would become members of the EMA Board of Directors.



9
*     key studies including a National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP), and a National Environmental Information Study
(NEIS); and
*     operationalizing the EMA by identifying and recruiting key staff
for the EMA, securing suitable office accommodation for the
agency, and begin the procurement of office equipment and
vehicles.
In recognition of the urgency of starting many of the above activities as soon
as possible, UNDP has already provided US$0.95 million in grant funding (see
Annex D. Activities not funded by UNDP would be eligible for support from
the Bank loan, retroactively if required. MoPaD's involvement in the project
would diminish after the EMA becomes operational.
18.   As noted, Government has provided a policy letter (Annex B)
describing the Government's objectives and priority actions for environmental
management, together with a schedule for achieving these actions. It has also
provided an assurance (Annex E) that adequate provision for local counterpart
funding for the non-salary expenses to be incurred during the first year of the
project was included in the Government's 1995 Budget. During negotiations,
Government assured the Bank that MoPaD would implement the project until
the EMA has become fully operational (Para 42(b)(i)).
19.   Operationalization of the Environmental Management Authority
(US$3.12 million over four years). The proposed project would finance the
start up costs and support the cost of operating the new Environmental
Management Authority during the project period. The Borrower gave
assurances at negotiations that the EMA would be established with a Board of
Directors and a Chief Executive Officer appointed as condition of loan
effectiveness, and would thereafter maintain the Agency with responsibilities,
functions, structure, funds, facilities, management and staff, satisfactory to the
Bank.
20.   The Environmental Management Act provides for an 11 person Board
of Directors to govern the EMA. The Board will be appointed by the
President of Trinidad and Tobago, acting on the advice of the Cabinet of
Ministers, and will be accountable to the Minister responsible for the
environment (currently the Minister of Planning and Development). The
Board, to be appointed by April 30, 1995, will be multidisciplinary and
members will be drawn from a wide cross section of disciplines and groups,
including environmental management, ecology, environmental health,
engineering, labor, community-based organizations, business, economics,
public administration, law and non-governmental organizations. The Board is
responsible for formulating EMA policy, and the Chief Executive Officer will
be responsible for its implementation. The Authority is permitted to set up
committees, working groups and advisory councils to assist it to carry out its
statutory functions and responsibilities. By these means, wide involvement of
diverse groups in the operations of the Authority will be facilitated.



10
21.   The broad functions of the Environmental Management Authority, as
set out in Section 16 (1) of the Environmental Management Act (1995), are:
*     recommend national environmental policies;
*     develop and implement policies and programs for the effective
management and wise use of the environment;
*     coordinate environmental management functions;
*     recommend ways to rationalize the environmental management
system to increase efficiency and achieve economies where
possible;
*     promote public awareness;
*     set national environmental standards and criteria;
monitor compliance and take enforcement action;
prevent and control pollution and foster conservation of the
environment; and
establish and coordinate linkages at local, regional and
international levels.
22.   The EMA's operating system and structure will be articulated by the
Board of Directors and executive management, once these are in place.
However, an indicative organizational structure has been developed and
approved by Government for the purposes of starting up the new Authority.
The day-to-day tasks of the EMA would be the subject of an Operations
Manual (financed by UNDP) to be compiled under the supervision of the
incoming management of the EMA (outline provided in Annex F). The
interim organizational structure for the agency comprises:
*     The Chief Executive's Office -- staffed by the Managing
Director (responsible to the Board of Directors for the operation
of the EMA) and support staff.
*     Administration Unit -- responsible for personnel matters,
procurement, financial control, and general office
administration. Staff would include an Administrative Officer,
Procurement Assistant, Book-keeper, Driver/Mechanic and
support staff.
*     Information and Education Unit -- responsible for obtaining,
maintaining and making available information pertaining to the
environmental affairs. The unit would also be responsible for
the educational and training activities of the Authority (including



11
public awareness). The staff of the unit would include Officers
responsible for Information, Complaints, Training, and
Education. They would be supported by a Research Assistant
and support personnel.
*      Planning Unit -- responsible for the studies, planning and
research activities to be carried out by the Authority, including
the rationalization studies and other studies described below.
Following the outcome of the rationalization studies the unit
would coordinate the environmental management activities of the
"Participating Agencies". The unit would be staffed by a
Planning Officer together with appropriate support personnel.
*      Legal Unit -- responsible for all legal matters pertaining to the
environment and the enforcement and compliance of the laws,
customs and practices relating to environmental management.
The staff of the unit would include Legal and Compliance
Officers with appropriate secretarial support.
*       'Control/Technical Unit -- responsible for environmental
surveillance, prevention and control of pollution, and provision
of advice and support in technical aspects of environmental
management. The unit would be staffed by up to five Technical
Officers with secretarial support. The number and type of
technical specialists required would be determined according to
the priorities established by the NEAP (see para. 29).
23.    The project design includes provision for the staff complement of the
EMA to reach approximately 20 professionals within the term of the project,
together with appropriate levels of secretarial and administrative support - the
minimum considered necessary to carry out the functions of the Authority.
The professional staff would be supplemented as required by short term
consultants sourced locally and/or internationally. Similarly, during periods of
peak activity, temporary support personnel would be contracted in to
supplement the pernanent administrative staff. It is recognized that as the
work of the agency builds up, additional staff may be required. This topic
would be addressed in detail during the mid-term review (para. 32). In terms
of staff build-up, the Managing Director and staff of the Chief Executive's
Office and the Administration Unit, and the Complaints Officer would be the
3.     Some additional short term consultants may, for example, be needed to assist in the
supervision of the relatively large number of technical studies that are being
conducted within this project. The costs of these consultants have been included
within the study costs. During project appraisal, it was determined that ample local
capacity exisLs in a number of local and regional institutions to provide such
expertise. In particular, the following major agencies have been identified: Institute
of Marine Affairs; Caribbean Industrial Research Institub; University of the West
Indies; Bureau of Standards; Water and Sewerage Authority; Chemnistry, Food and
Drug Division (Ministry of Health); National Institue for Higher Education,
Research, Science and Technology; and, Solid Waste Management Co. Ltd.



12
first to be recruited (targeted for July 1995). The staff of the other functional
units would be recruited over the following three months. The professional
qualifications of the Technical Officers selected would depend on the priorities
established by the NEAP. MoPaD proposes to advertise internationally to fill
the professional positions in the EMA. Priority would be given to the
recruitment of suitably qualified and experienced nationals of Trinidad and
Tobago locally or from abroad. Remuneration packages, considered by
GoRTT (and shown by experience) to be attractive to returning nationals,
would be offered. In cases where it is not possible to fill positions with
nationals, applications from non-nationals would be considered and
appointments made on a contract basis. In these cases, individual
remuneration packages would be negotiated on a case by case basis within
existing GoRTT guidelines. The project would finance salaries and
operational costs of the EMA with GoRTT's contribution increasing from zero
percent at the start of the project to 100 percent at the end (para. 39).
24.   Office accommodation for the new agency would be provided by
GoRTT, which has adequate existing space in buildings owned or leased by
the state property company. No provision has been made in the project for
substantial renovations or refurbishment, however, an allocation has been
made to permit internal modifications to the selected property, as required.
25.   Support to the Participating Agencies. (US$3.51 million over four
years). The Government, in its letter of January 27, 1995 has identified the
key Participating Agencies (see Annex C), which would receive institutional
strengthening support from the project from the outset. The EMA, as soon as
it is operational, will draw up and agree a Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) with each agency, establishing the details of the relationship between
the Authority and the agency. Within the MoU, Envirommental Officers, to
be selected from among the staff of each Participating Agency, would be
identified. These officers would act as contact points for liaison between the
EMA and the agency. The Environmental Officers would receive special
training from the EMA Education Training Division to prepare them for their
new responsibilities. GoRTT recognizes that the EMA will require support
from agencies not among those identified as "key" agencies. To select these,
the EMA plans to carry out rationalization studies which, inter alia, would
determine the most appropriate ministries and public agencies to take on major
environmental management responsibilities, and delineate their functions (see
para. 29). Once the EMA's selection of a Participating Agency is ratified by
Government (a Cabinet decision), and a MoU agreed with the EMA, the
agency would become eligible for project support in the form of office
equipment, training and technical assistance as identified within the plans
resulting from the rationalization studies. The new Participating Agencies
would be linked into the National Environmental Management Information
System which the project would support (based on the findings and
recommendations of the proposed NEIS study -- para. 29). NEMIS would not
only interlink each Participating Agency with the national data base that the
EMA will establish within its Information Division, but also enable the



13
Environmental Officers to exchange information internationally, and access the
major international environmental data bases. To facilitate this the project
would establish an Internet communications node to facilitate the operation of
the network.
26.   At negotiations, Government gave assurance that the EMA would carry
out the project with the cooperation of the Participating Agencies (para.
42(b)(ii)), and that the institutional framework for environmental management,
including the Participating Agencies, would be reviewed through a series of
Rationalization Studies which would be completed no later than 18 months
after effectiveness (para. 42(b)(xi)).
27.   Training and Training-Related Technical Assistance (US$1.86
million over four years). Training programs would be implemented under
MoPaD initially. The EMA's Information and Education Unit will take over
responsibility as soon as it is operational. Provision has been made within the
project to support substantial amounts of training and training-related technical
assistance. The training would:
*     improve the knowledge-base of staff in MoPaD, the EMA, the
Participating Agencies, other public servants and the general
public;
*     strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities of relevant
staff in MoPaD, the EMA and the Participating Agencies; and
*     strengthen the environmental information network both locally
and internationally.
28.   The project would provide Technical and Training Advisers for 31
person-months of "on-the-job" training in specialized areas. The
findings/recommendations of the NEAP would determine the thematic focus of
the training - topics such as Environmental Impact Assessment, Pollution
Standards, Laboratory QA/QC Standards, Remedial/ Reclamation Standards,
Public Participation Guidelines, and Environmental Audit are likely priorities.
The project would also provide funding for Information, Training and
Educational Activities including Technical Assistance to determine the library
needs of the EMA and requirements for additional environmental
documentation. The project also includes funds to: procure documents and
library equipment; finance the reporting of environmental complaints; prepare
State of the Environment Reports; prepare reports required by International
Environmental Treaties; and purchase materials and cover expenses required
for public awareness campaigns, curriculum development and environmental
education activities. Provision is made for the training of EMA staff and
Environmental Officers in the Participating Agencies in the form of both short



14
and long term formal training. Further details of the proposed Training and
Training-Related Technical Assistance Component, including Terms of
Reference for the EMA Training Officer and the Training Adviser, and
generic training programs are presented in Annex G.
29.   Studies and Planning Exercises (US$0.78 million over four years).
The proposed project would support several priority studies which would
commence under the supervision of MoPaD and be completed under the
supervision of the EMA. These studies would contribute to the environmental
knowledge base of Trinidad and Tobago, identify priorities for the EMA's
work program and generally improve the efficiency of environmental
management in the country. Studies would be carried out with a view to
establishing an efficient system for the coordination of environmental
management centered on the EMA and the Participating Agencies and to
provide a medium term development plan for the EMA. Specifically, the
project would support the following studies to be started under MoPaD's
supervision and completed under that of the EMA: (a) the preparation of a
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The priority work program
of the EMA would be developed from the NEAP, (b) a series of
Rationalization Studies), to identify possible efficiencies and economies to be
gained by reorganizing the institutional framework for environmental
management, and to identify the institutional strengthening requirements of the
Participating Agencies; and (c) a needs analysis for establishing a National
Environmental Information System ("the NEIS Study"). The studies would
be carried out by consultants under the EMA's supervision, and the finding
and recommendations conveyed to Government for approval and
implementation as appropriate. Draft terms of reference for these studies are
included in Annex H.
30.   Further studies would commence once the EMA has become fully
operational, including: (a) the preparation of an inventory of sources of
pollutants ("Pollutant Inventory Study"); (b) the preparation of an
environmental management database to include all projects with environmental
implications in Trinidad and Tobago ("MIS Study"); (c) the design of a public
participation campaign, formal and non-formal education on environmental
topics, a formal training program and on-the-job-training for agency staff and
Environmental Officers ("Training Design Study"); (d) a study to evaluate
needs and potential for adopting alternative mediation schemes ("Alternative
Mediation Study"); (e) two studies relating to the Polluter Pays Principle
(PPP) -- one to demonstrate the use of economic instruments as complements
to strict regulatory controls, and the other to show where PPP is relevant to
Trinidad and Tobago's circumstances -- ("PPP Incentive Studies"); (f) a study
to explore alternative means of financing environmental initiatives
("Innovative Finance Mechanism Study"); and (g) a study to illustrate the
use and potential for local application of natural resource and environmental
accounting methods, ("NREA Study"). Terms of Reference for these studies
are also presented in Annex G.



15
31.   Government gave its assurances at negotiations that it would prepare a
National Environmental Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank; submit a report
of the NEAP to the Bank not later that 12 months after effectiveness; and
subsequently carry out the plan (para. 42(b)(x)).
32.   Reports and Reviews. The EMA would prepare an Annual Report,
by the end of September of each year, in which it would review the
performance of the project during the previous 12 month period, and propose a
work-plan, together with estimated funding requirements, for the next 12
months (para. 42(b)(iv)). The Annual Report to be prepared in the last year of
the project (1999) would include the results of a survey to determine the
"person in the street's" opinions of the performance of the new Authority.
Using the Annual Reports as a basis, a joint GoRITT/Bank Annual Review
would be carried out during October of each year (in conjunction with a Bank
supervision) (para. 41(b)(v)). The Annual Review would be completed by the
end of October to permit the incorporation of agreed financial estimates into
the government's annual budget (which is finalized in November). In addition
to the annual reports and reviews, the Government would hire consultants
(under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank), to prepare a Mid-Term
P-rformance-Evaluation Report before the end of the second year of the
project, and after the completion of the NEAP (para. 42(b)(vi)), and to submit
the report to the Bank not later than 28 months after effectiveness (para.
42(b)(vii)). Using this latter report as a basis, GoRTT and the Bank would
jointly undertake a Midterm Review to evaluate the impact of the activities
supported by the project and results achieved. This review would be
completed not later that 30 months after project effectiveness (para.
42(b)(viii)). Specifically the review would evaluate the adequacy of the
structure, staff complement and operational plan of the EMA, and recommend
changes as appropriate. Should progress be considered unsatisfactory, at the
request of the Bank, GoRTT would prepare a plan of action, based on the
findings of the mid-term review, setting out how it would address the shortfall
in progress (para. 42(b)(ix)). Government gave assurances at negotiations that
the above mentioned reports and reviews would be carried out.
C. Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
33.   The proposed project is estimated to cost US$10.5 million equivalent,
excluding duties and taxes, with a foreign exchange component of US$4.85
million as detailed in Annex A. Costs were calculated using projected January
1995 prices and include a physical contingency of five percent. Price
contingencies over the financing period were computed based on expected
international price increases for goods and services as estimated by the Bank in
May 1994. Purchasing Power Parity was assumed to hold for the TT$/US$
exchange rate over the projected implementation period. Physical and price
contingencies total US$0.93 million for all components.



16
34.   Project Financing. The proposed IBRD loan of US$6.25 million
would finance 60 percent of total project costs, equivalent to 100 percent of
the foreign exchange costs, and 25 percent of local costs. The balance of
project costs would be financed by UNDP, (parallel financing of US$0.95
million in the form of two grants), and by GoRTT, (US$3.3 million). The
Government of Trinidad and Tobago would be the borrower and would make
the proceeds of the loan available on a grant basis to MoPaD for start up
operations, and to the EMA within the provisions of a subsidiary agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank -- para 42(c)(ii). Through MoPaD, the project would
finance vehicles and equipment, studies, technical assistance and training, as
required to start up the project. Through the EMA the project would finance
the agency's operations including staff costs, materials and supplies, training,
technical assistance and studies, as well as institutional strengthening of the
Participating Agencies in the field of environmental management -- para.
42(b)(ii).
3. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
35.   Role of the Ministry of Planning and Development (MoPaD).
MoPaD has been the co-ordinating ministry responsible for the preparation of
the legal and administrative arrangements for the creation of the EMA.
MoPaD will continue to be responsible for the EMA until the new Authority
becomes operational. GoRlT plans to inaugurate the EMA during June,
1995, but it is not anticipated that the Authority would become fully
operational until some three-four months later. Until EMA has become fully
operational, MoPaD would be the executing agency for implementing the
proposed project. Priority activities during this period will focus on recruiting
staff for the EMA, selecting office accommodation, and procuring equipment
and supplies. In addition, MoPaD will supervise the priority activities already
funded by UNDP, including a public awvareness campaign and training
activities, and start up key studies including the NEAP and the NEIS - both
important determinants of the EMA's priorities and initial work plan. MoPaD
has recruited consultants to supplement its regular staff to carry out its
responsibilities to the EMA and would recruit additional people as the work
load build up. For procurement and management of financial aspects of
project implementation, MoPaD will make use of the expertise within its
Restructuring Support Unit (RSU), which has substantial experience of
administering projects funded by the Bank and IDB.
36.   Role of the EMA. Once the EMA has become fully operational, i.e.
once its Board of Directors, CEO, Administrative Director and key
professional and support staff have been recruited and have worked together as
a team for a period of three to four months, the EMA would take over as lead
executing agency for the project. Consultants employed by MoPaD would be
eligible to apply for positions within the EMA. Responsibility for
procurement and financial control of the project will be transferred from



17
MoPaD's RSU to the EMA once the staff to be responsible for these functions
have been trained. The RSU will train the procurement staff in the EMA and
continue to provide oversight and advice, as required, throughout the
implementation period.
37.   The EMA would be responsible for implementing the proposed
program of support to the Participating Agencies. The arrangements for such
support would be established in the Memoranda of Understanding that would
be drawn up between the EMA and each Agency. A Project Implementation
Plan with Monitoring Indicators is attached as Schedule A (pages 36-40), and
Implementation Schedules are presented as Annex I (pages 103-105).
B. Procurement and Disbursement
38.   The Borrower has given assurances that procurement of goods and
consulting services financed by the Bank under the project would follow
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 42(b)(xiii)). There are no civil
works expected under this project. Goods, including vehicles, computers and
office equipment, would be procured under Limited International Bidding
(LIB) procedures for all contracts in excess of US$25,000. Where possible,
the procurement of like goods, including computer hardware, would be
grouped and bids solicited under LIB procedures from suppliers with
established service and maintenance facilities in the country. Contracts for
goods valued at less than US$25,000, up to an aggregate of US$250,000,
would be purchased on the basis of price quotations from at least three eligible
suppliers. The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance financed from loan funds would be consistent with the
August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by Ubrld Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. As described above,
the Restructuring Support Unit of MoPaD will be responsible for procurement
of goods and services financed under this project from Bank funds until such
time as the EMA has become fully operational, and has established
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Prior Review of
procurement documentation would be required for all LIB contracts (for
vehicles and equipment) and for all consulting services above US$50,000 for
individual consultants and US$100,000 for consultants' firms. This review
would include terms of reference, short lists, and contracts.
39.   Disbursements. The proposed Bank loan of US$6.25 million would be
disbursed over a period of four and a half years (Annex A). The standard
disbursement profile for Technical Assistance projects in Latin America and
the Caribbean, dated August 1993 (a six and one half year profile) was not
used, since this project has been designed to provide short-term concentrated
support for GoRIT to start up the new Authority during a period of financial
austerity. GoRIT is confident that the project would fully disburse within the
shorter time frame. The Bank would reimburse Government for eligible
expenditures incurred by MoPaD during the start up period, by the EMA, and
by the Participating Agencies at a rate of 100 percent of foreign expenditures



18
for goods, including vehicles, computers and office equipment, and 85 percent
for locally procured goods (US$1.35 million), and 100 percent for foreign
consultants and foreign training costs and 85 percent for local consultants and
local training costs (US$3.15 million). Disbursements would be limited to an
aggregate of US$1.75 million for the following: project related incremental
salaries, labor costs and operating expenses for maintenance, materials and
supplies for MoPaD and the EMA. The project would finance 100 percent of
such eligible expenses up to an amount disbursed equivalent to US$1.00
million; 75 percent up to an amount disbursed equivalent to US$1.45 million,
and 50 percent thereafter until the US$1.75 million has been fully disbursed,
by which time GoRTT would take on full responsibility for these expenses.
All disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts for goods
valued at less than US$25,000 and for consulting services valued at less than
US$50,000 for individual consultants and US$100,000 for consultants' firms
and for operating costs for which disbursements would be made against
statements of expenditures (SOEs) for which the supporting documentation
would be retained by MoPaD and the EMA, and would be made available to
authorized auditors and Bank supervision missions. Retroactive financing of
up to US$0.4 million would be provided for eligible project expenditures
(made after July 1, 1994). The project is expected to be completed by June
30, 1999 and to close by December 31, 1999.
Table 1. Procurement of Goods and Services
US$ millions (including contingencies)
Project Elements        ICB    J   LIB    | Other    |Total
Vehicles and Equipment                  0.80       0.65 a      1.45
(0.80)     (0.55)     (1.35)
Materials and Operating                            1.77 a      1.77
Supplies                                          (0.25)      (0.25)
Salaries and Labor                                 3.27 b      3.27
(1.50)     (1.50)
Consultant Services and                            4.01 c      4.01
Training                                           (3.15)     (3.15)
Total                                   0.80       9.70       10.50
(financed by the Loan)                 (0.80)     (5.45)      (6.25)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed under the loan.
a Local Shopping
b Not subject to procurement
c Bank guidelines would apply
40.   To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower has agreed to
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account (SA) with the Central Bank. The authorized
allocation would be US$400,000 (representing four months' average projected
expenditures). The SA would be replenished at three monthly intervals. The



19
documentation requirements for replenishment of the SA would follow
procedures described in paragraph 39. In addition, monthly bank statements
of the SA, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all
replenishment requests.
41.   Accounting and Auditing. To account for project costs and financing,
MoPaD and the EMA would establish procedures to consolidate project
accounts before the transfer of implementation responsibilities. The EMA
will establish separate accounts to record eligible project expenditures made on
behalf of the Participating Agencies. Such procedures would be adequate to
account for and monitor the financial operations of the project. The project
accounts, SA and related financial information (including supporting
documentation for SOEs), would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank in accordance with Bank auditing guidelines.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that certified copies of the
audited consolidated project accounts and audited SA (including a separate
opinion on the use of the SOEs) would be submitted annually to the Bank not
later than four months after the close of the financial year, starting with the
audit reports for the financial year ending December 31, 1995 (para. 42
(b)(xii)).
C. Agreed Actions
42.   Actions Agreed with GoRTT.
(a)   The Government has provided a policy letter (Annex B) that
describes the Government's objectives and priority actions for
environmental management together with a schedule for achieving these
actions, and has provided assurances that adequate provision for local
counterpart funding for the project has been included in the
Government's Budget for 1995 (Annex E) and that adequate funds will
be provided during the project implementation period.
(b)   During negotiations, GoRTT gave assurances that: (i) MoPaD
would implement the project until the EMA has become fully
operational; (ii) the EMA would carry out the project with the
cooperation of the Participating Agencies, in accordance with the
Environmental Policy Letter, the Implementation Plan, and the NEAP.
GoRTT also undertook to (iii) maintain the EMA with responsibilities,
functions, structure, funds, facilities, management and staff,
satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of coordinating and implementing
GoRIT's environmental management policies; (iv) submit an annual
report in September of each year which, inter alia, would contain the
proposed budgetary allocation required to carry out the project during
the succeeding fiscal year; (v) based on this report, review the progress
of project implementation, jointly with the Bank, during October of
each year; (vi) employ consultants to prepare a mid-term evaluation
report not later that 24 months after the date of effectiveness; (vii)
furnish this study to the Bank not later than 28 months after the date of



20
effectiveness; (viii) hold a review, based on this report, jointly with the
Bank, of the implementation and results of GoRTr's environmental
policy, (as set out in the Policy Letter), 30 months after the date of
effectiveness, and if the Bank requests; (ix) furnish to the Bank a plan
of action aimed at achieving adequate progress and meeting the
project's objectives, within 60 days after the request. GoRIF also
undertook to (x) prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than 12
months after effectiveness, a NEAP, (which would include the
priorities for the rationalization of the environmental management
framework), acceptable to the Bank, and to subsequently carry out the
plan; (xi) prepare and furnish to the Bank, no later than 18 months
after effectiveness, action plans to rationalize the environmental
management framework (in accordance to the priorities established in
the NEAP, satisfactory to the Bank, and subsequently carry out the
plans; (xii) carry out annual audits of the project's accounts, including
the special account, and submit a report to the Bank within four months
of the end of the fiscal year; and (xiii) follow procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c)   Conditions for Loan Effectiveness: GoRTr to (i) establish the
EMA by appointing the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive
Officer; and (ii) enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with the EMA in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.



SCHEDULE A
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
AND MONITORING INDICATORS






TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND MONITORING INDICATORS
GoRTT Objectives    Project Component       Expected Results/Impact               Timing Targets         Agency Responsible
Activities
To put in place      Support MoPaD          1. Enviromtal Task Force
an institutional     to operationalize         appointed.                         c.b.' Jan. 31, 1995    MoPaD
framework for       the EMA.
the mangement                               2. EMA Board nominated.               c.b. Apr. 30, 1995     President's Office
of the nation's
environment.                                3. Office accommodation for EMA
identified and secured.           c.b. June 30, 1995      MoPaD/EMA Board
4. Started procuremnt of
office equipment, and vehicles.    s.b.2 Jan 31, 1995     MoPaD/EMA Board
5. EMA CEO recruited.                c.b. June 1, 1995       MoPaD/EMA Board
6. EMA Administrative Officer
recruited.                        c.b. July 1, 1995       MoPaD/EMA Board
7. EMA start up.                     s.b. July 1, 1995       EMA
Implamnet a            1. Start Consensus Building and
program of                Public Awareness Program.          underway               MoPaD
priority
activities.            2. Prepare NEAP.                      c.b. Dec. 31, 1995     MoPaD/EMA
3. Prepare NEIS.                     c.b. March 31, 1996     MoPaD/EMA
4. Prepar EMA Medium Term
Development Plan                   undeway                MoPiD/EMA
1. c.b.-conmieb by
2. s.b. - tW bYr



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND MONITORING INDICATORS
GoRTT Objectives    Project Component       Expected Results/impact                Timing Targets         Agency Responsible
Activities
To put in place      Implement a            5. Workshops                           underway               MoPalD
an institutional     program of priority
framework for        activities.            6. International Treaty Reporting      underway               MoPaD
the management
of the nation's
environment.         Support to EMA's       1. Recruit full staff complement       s.b. June 1, 1995      EMA/MoPaD
Operations.
2. Key Professional staff recruited   c.b. July 1, 1995       EMA
3. EMA installed in office
accommodation, administrative
staff recruited and                                                                       ,
procurement and book-keeping
systems installed.                 c.b. Sept. 30, 1995    EMA/MoPaD
4. Commence Procurement of vehicles,
and equipment for EMA and
key Participating Agencies         s.b. Sept. 30, 1995     EMA/MoPaD
5. Establish System for dealing with
complaints and reporting
on measures taken.                 c.b. Sept. 30, 1995     EMA
6. 'State of the Environment
Report' prepared.                  by June 30 each year    EMA
7. International Treaty Reports
prepared.                          ongoing                 EMA
8. Public Awareness Campaign
continued, (follows MoPaD's
campaign).                         s.b. July 1, 1995      EMA



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND MONITORING INDICATORS
GoRTT Objectives    Project Component      Expected Results/Impact               Timing Targets         Agency Responsible
Activities
To put in place     Support to EMA's       9. Curriculum development and
an institutional    Operations.               Environmental education program    s.b. Sept. 30, 1995    EMA
framework for                                 established.
the management
of the nation's                            10. Interim compliance monitoring
environment.                                  started.                           s.b. Sept. 30, 1995    EMA
Establish EMA's       1. Consultant to advise
Environmental           on needs i.e. publications,
Information             equipment and storage/retrieval
Center.                 systems.                            s.b. Jan. 1, 1996      EMA/Consultant                LA
2. Equipment procurement and
journal subscriptions started.     s.b. March 1, 1996     EMA
3. Establish NEMIS.                  s.b. April 1, 1996
To strengthen        Formalize and          1. Agree Memoranda of
the institutional   strengthen               Understanding with key              s.b. June 30, 1995     EMA/Key Participating
framework for       relationships            Participating Agencies.                                    Agencies
the management      between the EMA
of the nation's     and the key            2. Select Environmental                                                                    c
environment.         Participating           Officers in Key Participating      c.b. Aug. 1, 1995       Key Participating
Agencies.               Agencies.                                                  Agencies
3. Select environmental focus
for first Rationalization                                                               D
Study.                             c.b. Jan. 1, 1996      EMA
4. Carry out first Rationalization
Study.                             c.b. Feb. 1, 1996      EMA



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND MONITORING INDICATORS
GoRTT Objectives    Project Component      Expected Results/Impact               Timing Targets         Agency Responsible
Activities
To strengthen        Formalize and         5. Recommend measures
the institutional   strengthen relation      to improve efficiency               c.b. one month after
framework for       -ships between           within cluster of agencies          completion of first
the management      the EMA and Key          studied.                            Rationalization Study    EMA
of the nation's      Participating
enviromnent.        Agencies.              6. Select additional
Participating Agencies.            as item 5              EMA
7. Agree Memoranda of
Understanding with                 s.b. one month after
additional Participating           completion of first    EMA/Participating
Agencies.                          Rationalization Study.   Agencies
8. Select Environmental
Officers in new                    as item 6              New Participating
Participating Agencies.                                   Agencies
Strengthen            1. Provide preliminary training
implementation           and T.A. to Key Participating.
capacity of              Agencies.                          s.b. Aug. 1, 1995      EMA
Participating
Agencies.             2. Procure equipment for Key
Participating Agencies.            s.b. Aug. 1, 1995      EMA
Train staff of         1. Carry out Training Needs
the EMA, E.Os.           Study                              c.b. Dec. 31, 1995     EMA
other staff of
Participating         2. Candidates selected and
Agencies.               courses arranged.                   c.b. Dec. 31, 1995     EMA



TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM AND MONITORING INDICATORS
GoRTT Objectives    Project Component      Expected Results/Impact               Timing Targets         Agency Responsible
Activities
To strengthen the   Train and advise        1. Technical and Training Advisers
institutional frame  EMA Staff in            identified and recruited for
-work for the       preparation of           preparation of;
management of       guidelines,              (a) EIA Guidelines.                 s.b. Jul 1, 1995       EMA/Consultants
the nation's        standards and            (b) Pollution Standards.            s.b. Jul 1, 1995       EMA/Consultants
environment.        procedures.              (c) Laboratory QA/QC
Procedures.                     s.b. Jul 1, 1995       EMA/Consultants
(d) Remediation/Reclanation
Standards.                      s.b. Jun 17, 1996      EMA/Consultants
(e) Public Participation
Guidelines.                     s.b. Dec 9, 1996       EMA/Consultants
(f) Environmental Audits.          s.b. July 18, 1997     EMA/Consultants
To undertake a         1. Following studies started;
series of strategic     (a) Pollution Inventory Study.      s.b. Sept. 30, 1995    EMA/Consultants
studies.                (b) Environmental Data Base
(MIS) Study.                    s.b. Dec. 31, 1995     EMA/Consultants
(c) Alternative Mediation Study.   s.b. Dec 31, 1995      EMA/Consultants
(d) PPP Incentive Study            s.b. Oct. 1, 1995      EMA/Consultants
(e) Innovative Finance Mechanism
Study.                          s.b. Dec. 31, 1995     EMA/Consultants
(g) NREA Study.                    s.b. Jan. 1, 1996      EMA/Consultants
To review progress    1. Annual Reports prepared            c.b. Sept. 30 each year  EMA
and achievements
of the project.       2. Annual Review (GoRTT/Bank)         c.b. Oct. 31 each year   EMA/Bank
3. Mid-term Evaluation Report        c.b. June 30 1997      EMA/Consultants               >
4. Mid Term Review (GoRTr/Bank)    c.b. Oct. 31 1997        GoRTT/EMA/Bank






ANNEX A
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES






31                                 ANNEX A
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES
TOTAL PROJECT                   (US$ nIllns)
(Year-end 31-Doc)
Total    Yar 0      Ye Il      Yar 2      Yew 3      Year 4
1. Ministry of Planning - Startup            1.13      0.63       0.50       0.00       0.00       0.00
1.1 Project Magent                           0.57      0.36       0.21       0.00       0.00       0.00
1.2 Short-tewm High Ptiorty ActNtite         0.39      0.20       0.19       0.00       0.00       0.00
1.3 NEA Plannig Process                      0.14      0.06       0.06       0.00       0.00       0.00
1.4 EMA Inuguration (Earth Day)              0.03      0.00       0.03       0.00       0.00       0.00
2. Environmental Management Agency           6.25       0.00      1.72       1.54       1.00       0.99
EMA Op tIe                                 2.8        0.00 9.118           9."        0.62        Q.6
2.1 General Management                       0.34      0.00       0.14       0.07       0.07       0.07
2.2 Administative Support (Prornel)          0.53      0.00       0.12       0.13       0.13       0.13
2.3 AdmWitratIve Support (non-Pervonnel1     0.59       0.00      0.27       0.14       0.08       0.10
2.4 Professional Staff                       0.80      0.00       0.22       0.19       0.19       0.19
2.5 Technical Adsvers (Permanent)            0.33      0.00       0.09       0.06       0.06       0.06
2.8 Control & Conpliance ActvIties           0.26      0.00       0.04       0.07       0.07       0.07
EMA r_,, and Te.l Aeoktase                 1.70   noo           0.46       a."        0.6S        0.31
2.7 Technical and Trg. Advisers (Extamall    0.62      0.00       0.19       0.31       0.08       0.04
2.8 Information ActIvites                    1.08       0.00      0.26       0.27       0.27       0.27
EMA Stud       _ aed PVeo'g wEx ..        0.72       0.00       09.        0.27       9.93       9.93
2.9 Studies                                  0.72       0.00      0.39       0.27       0.03       0.03
3. ParticipatIng Agencies                    3.20       0.22      0.86       0.99       0.59       0.53
3.1 Supply Base Equipment                    0.86       0.00      0.42       0.46       0.00       0.00
3.2 Supplewmntacy nsatutional Strengthening  0.26       0.00      0.00       0.06       0.13       0.06
3.3 Support to EOs                           2.07       0.22      0.4e       0.46       0.46       0.46
Total Project Base Cost                      9.58       0.86      3.11       2.53        1.59       1.61
Physical Contingencies                       0.48       0.04      0.16       0.13       0.06       0.06
Prce Contingoncies                           0.45      0.00       0.04       0.11       0.13       0.17
Total Proect Cost                           10.50       O.89      3.30       2.76        1.80       1.76
Financing Plan:
GORTT                             31.4%      3.30       0.40      0.71       0.56       0.71       0.93
1BRD                              59.5%      6.26       0.00      2.12       2.21        1.06      0.84
UNDP                               9.1%      0.96      0.49       0.46       0.00       0.00       0.00
Total                                       10.50       0.89      3.30       2.76        1.79       1.77
Disbursements                                       Bnk FY       1996       1906       1997       1998    1999
Annual      *Mn        1.06       2.17       1.64       0.96     0.42
Cumrn.       Mn        1.06       3.23       4.87       6.83     6.25



32                                  ANNEX A
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST TABLES (continued)
TOTAL PROJECT                              (US$ mlbone)
(Year-end 31-Doad
Foreign as
Local        Foreign         Total     a % of Total
1. Minis" of Plannirg - Stwtup                  0.S0          0.63            1.13          10.7%
1.1 Proeot Manaent                              0.30          0.27           0.57            S.4%
1.2 Short-twm High Piotr Aadkles                0.14          0.26           0.39            3.7%
1.3 NEA Plann P                                 0.06          0.06           0.14            1.3%
1.4 EMA inauraton (Erth Day)                    0.01          0.02           0.03            0.3%
2. Environmental Management Agency              2.94           2.31          5.25           50.0%
EWA Op__Ea _baU.                             Ii       N     aL 74          2Z             27.0%
2.1 General Managemnnt                          0.26          0.09           0.34            3.2%
2.2 Administratve Support (Peronnel)            0.60          0.03           0.53            5.0%
2.3 AdmInstraive Support (non-Pwronnel)         0.19          0.41           0.59            5.7%
2.4 Professional Staff                          0.76          0.04           0.80            7.6%
2.6 Technical Advisers (Pemanent)               0.31          0.02           0.33            3.1%
2.6 Control & Compliance ActivtIes              0.00           0.16          0.25            2.4%
EMA Treleang ad Techheaf AJh A taace          aID            i.ie           1.70          16.29
2.7 Technical nd Trg. Advi"se (External)        0.22          0.40           0.62            5.9%
2.8 informatIon ActivIltes                      0.36          0.70            1.06          10.3%
EMA Stud. and _snAh  Ewche                    AMX            OL             0.72     n      .8%
2.9 Studies                                     0.25          0.46           0.72            6.8%
3. Participating Agencies                       1.72           1.48           3.20          30.5%
3.1 Supply Bas Equipmnt                         0.04           0.84          0.88            8.4%
3.2 Supplmentwry nsttudonal Strengthening       0.07          0.18           0.25            2.4%
3.3 Support to EOs                              1.61          0.47            2.07          19.7%
Total Projoct Base Coat                         5.16           4.42           9.58          91.2%
Physical ContrnencIes                           0.26          0.22           0.48            4.6%
Price Contingencies                             0.24          0.21           0.46            4.2%
Total Project Cost                              6.66          4.86           10.50         100.0%
Finncing Plan:
GORTT       3.30          0.00           3.30          31.4%
liRD      2.04          4.21           6.26          S9.5%
UNDP      0.31           0.84           0.96           9.1 %
Total     5.66          4.86          10.50          100.0%



ANNEX B
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GoRTT'S POLICY LETTER






35                         ANNEX B
MINISTRY OF PLANNING A1ND DEVELOPMENT
ElIC WILLIAMS FINANCE BUILDING
.'.__  -X@                                      ERIC WILLIAMS PLAZA-LEVEL 14
INDEPENDENCE SQUARE
PORT OF-SPAIN
Tel. 627-9700                                                     TRINIDAD
Ref.: PL&D: 12/11/31                                            January  12,           95
rb .                                                   .. ........................ .
POLICY LETTER
Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
The World Bank
1818, H. Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Burki,
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago is seeking the support of the World Bank for its
efforts to strengthen the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for national environmental
management and to develop the required institutional capacity to operate the new system effectively.
2.    The Government considers the programme as being of very high priority. This strong
commitment reflects, first of all, our concern to put in place an environmental management regime
and supporting systems which will ensure that as we continue to develop the country, the growth that
takes place is sustainable and consistent with the need for resource conservation and environmental
preservation. Additionally, we wish to deal effectively with some of the problems that have arisen
from improper environmental management. These include forest destruction (especially in the
Northern Range); river pollution; irresponsible quarrying of limestone, gravel and sand; water
pollution, particularly in the west coast; soil pollution resulting from indiscriminate use of agricultural
chemicals; and improper disposal of liquid and solid wastes.
3.    The present administration has deliberately put environmental management high on its policy
agenda. In 1992, shortly after taking office, the Government reviewed the existing legal and
institutional framework for environmental management. The review revealed serious weaknesses in
the legal and institutional framework, including the following:



36                         ANNEX B
a)    a proliferation of agencies involved, in one way or other, with environmental management
issues;
b)    a lack of formalized mechanisms for co-ordination;
c)    the fragmentation of legislative instruments, giving rise to jurisdictional difficulties and
contributing to complexity and ineffectiveness in enforcement action, and
d)    gaps in coverage (e.g. noise and air pollution).
New Le2islation
4.    The review was followed by preparation of a policy brief to be used in developing a new
legislative and institutional framework. The policy brief was approved by Cabinet in 1993. Cabinet
also approved the adoption of the following mission statement:
The Government of Trinidad and Tobago is committed to the concept of sustainable
development which is an approach to progress that meets the needs of the present
without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Consequently, the Government shall make provision for the establishment and
operation of an environmental management agency for the formulation and execution
of national environmental policies and practices, for the promotion of public
awareness of environmental concerns, and for the establishment of an effective
regulatory regime which will improve, protect and conserve the natural and cultural
heritage of the country and avoid environmental damage and degradation of natural
resources and secure sustainable development.
Against that background, new legislation was drafted during 1994 with the assistance of a legal
consultant whose services were made available through the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and UNEP. As a matter of deliberate policy, the Government has placed a great deal of
emphasis on securing full public participation in the process of evolving the new legislative and
institutional framework. Accordingly, the Environrmental Management Bill was published for public
review and comment during August/September 1994. There was strong public interest and the
responses were generally constructive and incisive. Following consideration of the comments
received, several amendments were made to the draft legislation. The revised Bill was approved by
Cabinet on December 15, 1994 and tabled in Parliament on December 20, 1994. Debate on the Bill
commenced on January 10, 1995 and the legislation is expected to be approved by February 28, 1995.



37                         ANNEX B
Environmental Management Authority
5.    Key features of the new legislation include the establishment of an Environmental
Management Authority, an Environmental Trust Fund and an Environmental Commission.
The broad functions of the Authority are to --
(a)    make recommendations for a National Environmental Policy;
(b)    develop and implement policies and programmes for the effective management and
wise use of the environment, consistent with the objects of the Act;
(c)    co-ordinate environmental management functions performed by persons in Trinidad
and Tobago;
(d)   make recommendations for the rationalisation of all governmental entities performing
environmental functions;
(e)    promote educational and public awareness programmes on the environment;
(f)    develop and establish national environmental standards and criteria;
(g)   monitor compliance with the standards, criteria and programmes relating to the
environment"
(h)   take all appropriate actions for the prevention and control of pollution and
conservation of the environment; and
(i)    establish and co-ordinate institutional linkages locally, regionally and internationally.
6.    The enabling legislation will give the Authority adequate powers to be an effective instrument
for the promotion of sound environmental practices. The specific powers include, for example, the
ability to:
(a)    establish procedures for the registration of sources from which pollutants may be
released into the environment and the characterization of such sources;
(b)   specify the quantity, condition or concentration of pollutants or substances containing
pollutants that may be released into the environment,
(c)   set out procedures and standards with respect to permits or licences required for a
person to install or operate any process or other source from which pollutants may
be released into the environment;



38                          ANNEX B
(d)    establish procedures and standards for the formal designation and protection of
"environmentally sensitive areas" or "environmentally sensitive species";
(e)   introduce incentive programmes or mechanisms which encourage the use of effective
environmental systems and the achievement of improvements in environmental
quality,
(f)    designate hazardous substances or categories of hazardous substances, and the
performance standards, procedures, safeguards and licensing or permitting
requirements in accordance with which such hazardous substances shall be handled;
(g)    establish procedures to be followed by anyone required to apply for a certificate of
environmental clearance, and the standards for preparation and submission of
environmental impact assessment;
(h)    define various categories of waste and the requirements with respect to the handling
and disposal of such waste, as well as license facilities at which such wastes are to be
handled or disposed;
(i)    establish procedures and standards for the monitoring of pollutant releases from any
process, activity, vehicle or premises;
(j)    declare ambient environmental quality criteria and standards; and
(k)    approve the design, construction, operation, maintenance and monitoring of facilities
or processes for the control of pollution and the handling of wastes.
7.    It is of significance that the legislation provides that the Authority " .... shall facilitate co-
operation among persons and manage the environment in a manner which fosters participation and
promotes consensus, including the encouragement and use of appropriate means to avoid or
expeditiously resolve disputes through mechanisms for alternative dispute resolution." This reflects
our conviction that the Authority must not be unduly confrontational or anti-development and that
it should seek to engender co-operation, promote awareness and encourage voluntary compliance
as key strategies in the pursuit of national environmental management objectives.
8.    At the same time, the Authority will be afforded a considerable degree of operating autonomy.
It will be set up as a statutory body, governed by a I l-person Board of Directors appointed by the
President of the Republic on the advice of the Cabinet. The Board will be accountable to the Minister
responsible for Environmental Matters who will give general policy directions to the Authority. The
composition of the Board will be multidisciplinary and members will be drawn from a wide cross-
section of disciplines and groups, including: environmental management, ecology, environmental
health, engineering, labour, community-based  organizations, business, economics, public
administration, law, and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The Authority will also be



39                         ANNEX B
permitted to set up committees, working groups or advisory councils to assist in carrying out its
functions. These devices will allow for wide involvement and mobilization of the national community.
Environmental Trust Fund
9.    The new legislation also establishes an Environmental Trust Fund which will be used to fund
the operations of the Authority and to promote national environmental management objectives. The
activities to be supported by the Trust Fund include:
(a)   incentive measures for reducing environmental pollution, protecting the environment
and conserving natural resources;
(b)    demonstration projects of innovative technologies which reduce pollution, or which
reduce or eliminate the use of hazardous substances or the generation of wastes;
(c)    emergency response activities to address actual or potential threats to human health
or the environment, including remediation or restoration of environmentally degraded
sites, containment of any wastes, hazardous substances or other environmentally
dangerous conditions, or other appropriate precautionary measures to prevent
significant adverse effects on human health or the environment; and
(d)   public awareness and education programmes to enhance the understanding of the
environmental protection and natural resources management issues within Trinidad
and Tobago.
10.   The legislation specifically requires the Authority to prepare recommendations for a
comprehensive National Environmental Policy (NEP). The Authority's recommendations must be
based on an analysis of the prevailing state of the environment, targeted environmental quality
norms, ecological and other balances required to conserve natural resources and protect the
environment and consideration of areas of the environment requiring special protection. It is
obligatory for the Authority to complete its initial recommendations not later than two years after the
Act takes effect. The NEP must also include:
(a)    provisions to encourage the establishment of institutional linkages locally, regionally
and internationally to further the objectives of the Act;
(b)    analyses of factors impacting upon the development and successful implementation
of national environmental policy; and
(c)    a programme for promoting the policy and building national commitment.
Provision is made to facilitate public comment on the policy proposals.



40                          ANNEX B
Rationalisation Activitv
11.   The Government is convinced that given the inherent constraints the process of strengthening
and rationalizing the national environmental management framework must be evolutionary. The
programme envisages that the Authority will commence a series of Rationalization Studies not later
than six months after it commences operations. The studies will each focus on a particular sub-set
of the national environmental management system, either in relation to a priority functional area or
a cluster of institutions. The primary objective of the study will be to develop specific
recommendations to rationalize the sub-system and enhance capacity and performance. This may
include any or all of the following options:
(a)    merger of existing institutions to improve effectiveness and better utilise scarce
resources;
(b)    consolidation, rationalisation and modernisation of legislation;
(c)    elimination of duplication of programmes or activities;
(d)    strengthening of an existing institution; and
(e)    accessing services from private providers as an alternative to continuing or expanding
the services of an existing agency.
12.   The second and subsequent phases of this programme will be characterised by the
implementation of recommendations generated by the completed studies and the mounting of
additional rationalisation studies.
Operatine Mechanisms
13.   The EMA will use the instrument of delegation to enhance the effectiveness of existina
agencies involved in environmental management. Through delegation these agencies will be permitted
to exercise some of the powers of the Authority in furtherance of the objectives of the legislation.
Thus, the Authority will be required, within three months of the Act coming into effect, to initiate
consultation with these agencies to establish mechanisms for co-ordination, implementation of
integrated environmental management programmes, the drawing up of memoranda of understanding,
and the designation of Environmental Officers.
14.   The Government also regards the attainment of cost-effectiveness as an important goal of the
programme. This is reflected in the aspect of programme design related to the Authority itself We
have avoided a monolithic organisational structure. The Authority will be required to maintain a lean



41                         ANNEX B
operation and to contract various services from other government agencies or private sector providers
in order to get many of its tasks done without the necessity to include such resources within its staff
complement. Examples of this are laboratory services and field operatives.
15.   The Government is determined to make the Authority fully operational and effective as early
as possible. To this end, the Ministry of Planning and Development will shortly award a contract for
the development, inter alia, of a core set of environmental standards. The programme for which we
are seeking loan resources from the World Bank also provides for the preparation of a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and the commissioning of a needs assessment study with respect
to a National Environmental Information System.
16.   Cabinet has also agreed in principle to the establishment of an Environmental Task Force
which will effectively be the core of the proposed Board of the Authority. The Task Force will plan
for the commencement of operations of the Authority. Its responsibilities will also include the search
for a Chief Executive Officer and other key executive staff, and the drawing up of terms of reference
for specialist services to be provided by consultants on a short-term basis.
17.   Government is committed to implement the programme in accordance with the Action Plan
appended.
Financin2 Arran2ements
18.   It is recognized that in the short- to medium-term, the establishment of the EMA will increase
the need for resources to cover start-up and operating expenses, without the benefit of economies
that are likely to accrue from institutional rationalisation. As regards 1995, the sum of TT$4.4 million
has been budgeted to assist in programme implementation (this includes $3.5 million of grant
resources to be provided by the UNDP). Additionally, the budget assumes that TT$1.6 million will
be available from this World Bank operation. Counterpart funds will be provided for successive years
of the project as identified in the project financing plan. Moreover, the Government is firmly
committed to the long term sustainability of the overall programme for the strengthening of national
environmental management and will continue to provide adequate funding for its success after the
period of World Bank support comes to an end.
19.   It should be noted that the Government's counterpart contribution to the financing of the
environmental management programme will include the salaries and other operating expenses of the
designated Environmental Officers, having regard to the intention to use that device as a means of
institutional strengthening and the improvement of cooperation and coordination.
20.   Appropriations budgeted annually and approved by Parliament will be transferred to the Trust
Fund to help defray the operating and capital expenses of the Authority. These resources will be
augmented by income generated by payments for services rendered by the Authority, fees for permits,
licences, etc. Also going into the Trust Fund will be resources mobilised from multilateral and



42                           ANNEX B
bilateral donors, international foundations, the domestic private sector, etc. Over time, these sources
are expected to increase substantially the degree of self-reliance of the Authority.
21.   By way of additional support to facilitate the operations of the EMA, the legislation provides
that the Authority shall be exempted from stamp duty, corporation tax, customs duties, value added
taxes, motor vehicle taxes, fees, charges, assessments, levies and imposts on any income or profits
or on assets which are acquired for use by the Fund or the Authority.
22.   The Government is confident that the programme outlined herein will be effective in
promoting and sustaining sound environmental management in Trinidad and Tobago. We appreciate
the proposed support of the World Bank in its implementation.
Yours sincerely,
ce>ny nSaitE, rh. D
Minister.



43                         ANNEX B
ENVIRONMENTAL  MNIANAGEMIENT PRO.JECT
ACTION PLAN
ACTIVITY                                    TARGETED DATE
1.    Tabling in Parliament of                           December 20, 1994
Environmental Management Bill
2.    Appointment of Environmental                       January 31, 1995
Task Force
3.    Passage of Environmental                           February 28, 1995
Management Act
4.    Appointment of the Board of                        April 30, 1995
the EMA
5.    Appointmnent of the Chief Executive                June 1, 1995
Officer of the EMA
6.    Commencement of Operations of the                  July 1, 1995
EMA with Core Staff in place
7.    Consensus Building and Public                      June 1, 1995
Awareness Programme underway
8.    Commencement of Preparation of NEAP                June 30, 1995
9.    Commencement of Preparation of                     June 30, 1995
NEIS Needs Assessment Study
10.   Consultation commenced between EMA                 June 30, 1995
and Agencies to facilitate MOU's
and designation of Environmental
Officers
11.   Award of Consultancy to carry out                  September 30, 1995
PPP Incentive Study



44                         ANNEX B
12.   Award of Consultancv for Pollution                  September 30, 1995
Inventorv Studv
13.   Appointment of Environmental                        October 31, 1995
Commission
1-'.   Cor.mencement of vS Studv to                     December 31, 1995
develop database of Projects
with Environmental Implications
15.   Completion of NEAP                                  December 31, 1995
16.   Completion of L>siz  of Training                    December 31, 1995
Programrnme for ENV!A Staff and
Environmental Officers
17.   Commencement of Study of Innovative                 December 31, 1995
Funding for Stand-alone Environmental
Projects
18.   Selection of Activities and Finalisation            January 31, 1996
of Terms of Reference for First Phase
Rationalisation Studies
19.   Completion of NEIS Needs Assessment                 Mtarch 31, 1996
Study



ANNEX C
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS






47                         ANNEX C
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS WITH
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS
A. Mlinistries.
1. Planning and Development.
2. Agriculture, Lands and Marine Resources.
3. Works and Transport.
4. Energy and Energy-based Industries.
5. Local Government.
6. Health.
7. National Security.
8. Labor and Co-operatives.
9. Community Development, Culture and Women's Affairs.
10. Public Utilities.
11. Education.
12. Foreign Affairs.
13. Finance.
14. Office of the Prime Minister.
15. Trade Industry and Tourism.
16. Legal Affairs.
B. Statutory Bodies.
17. Tobago Houise of Assembly.
18. Airports Authority.
19. Water and Sewerage Authority.
20. Bureau of Standards.
21. Institute of Marine Affairs.
22. Law Commission.
23. Chaguaramas Development Authority.
24. Solid Waste Management Company Ltd.
25. Port Authority.
C. Institutions.
26. National Institute of Higher Education, Research, Science and
Technology.
27. University of the West Indies.
28. Caribbean Industrial Research Institute (CARIRI).
Note: Agencies in italics have been nominated as Key Participating Agencies
by GoRTT in its letter of January 27, 1995.






ANNEX D
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
UNDP PROJECT DOCUMENTS






51                                  ANNEX D
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
Project of the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
PROJECT DOCUMENT
Project Number and Title:                  TRI/9410011A101199    Establishment of the  Environmental
Management Agency of Trinidad and Tobago
Duration:                                   2 Years
Project Site:                              Trinidad and Tobago
ACC/UNDP Sector & Sub-sector:               0230   Public Administration (Environment)
Government Sector & Sub-sector:             Public Administration (Environment)
Implementing Agencies:                      Ministry of Planning and Development (MoPaD)
Environmental Management Agency
Executing Agency:                           Ministry of Planning and Development IMoPaD)
Estimated Starting Date:                    5 June 1994 (World Environment Day 1994)
Proiect Financina:
UNDP:                              US$       800.000         (Indicative Planning Figure-IPF)
Government Inputs:                 US$       250,000         (In Kind)
Total:                             US$   1,050,000
Country Indicators:
IPF (1992-1995):                   US$   1,891,000
Human Development Index:   0.877 (1993 Human Development Report)
HD Ranking:                        31 out of 173 countries
Brief Description: This project will assist ;n the establishment of the Environmental Management Agency of Trinidad and Tobago
(EMA) through the provision of technical advisory services and equipment. Specific technical studies will be carried out and legal
advice will be provided, crucial to the policy direction of the EMA. Legislation to establish the EMA is to be tabled in Parliament
in June 1994. The overall effort to set up the EMA is being supported by capacity building initiatives financed through the
Capacity 21 Fund (US$1 50,000). In addition, a World Bank loan is currently under negotiation to support the operational phase
of the EMA. Under an existing 'Business Expansion and Industrial Restructuring Loan, related tasks will be undertaken such as
training in 'best practice' Environmental Impact Assessments. Specifically, the following tasks will be addressed:
(i)     The recruitment process of the Chief Executive Officer, and the Executive Management Team of the EMA;
(ii)    The structuring of the EMA as a coordinating, regulatory and management agency, and its operationalization;
liii)   Development of the planning, legal, enforcement and technical capacities required for the EMA;
(ivI    Development of a medium-term financing plan for the EMA.
Iv)     Identification and mobilization of additional domestic and financial resources for the EMA and environmental projects
generally and to recommend optimum coordination for the effective use of domestic and external project resources.
Agreed on behalf of:
Signa pjre:               Date:                    Name/Title:
Executing Agency:              I\A- V                                      3  71    i 1   j I ;F'1f    Cc, -:
Implementing Agency:                     .C "                                           A1   7lM/,&Th.r  t3C t,,\i
UNDP:                                  vu i''.                                                          fK.,ii>wZK
4                                 / XC~;m ) <V-r      T  F"c   r,\lll9t



52                                 ANNEX D
UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
Project of the Government of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago
PROJECT DOCUMENT
Project Number and Title:                   TRI/941G81 /A13G/99 National Consensus on the Environmental
Management Agency (EMA)
Duration:                                   1 Year
Project Site:                               Trinidad and Tobago
ACC/UNDP Sector & Sub-sector:               0230   Public Administration (Environment)
Government Sector & Sub-sector:             Public Administration (Environment)
Implementing Agency:                        Ministry of Planning and Development (MoPaD)
Executing Agency:                           Ministry of Planning and Development (MoPaD)
Starting Date:                              1 January 1994
Capacity 21 Fund Contribution:              US$   150.000
Government Contribution:                    US$    50,000            (In Kind)
Total Project Cost:                         US$   200,000
Country Indicators:
IPF (1992-1996):                            US$ 1,891,000
Human Development Index:                    0.877 (1993 Human Development Report)
Human Development Ranking:                31 out of 173 countries
Brief DOescription: The objective of the UNOP Capacity 21 Fund is to assist countries in the building of national capacities to
integrate sustainable development concerns in overall economic and social development policies. This project will support
capacity building initiatives aimed at developing a national consensus in support of the establishment of the Environmental
Management Agency (EMAi. The following tasks will be addressed:
(I1     Preparation of a Management Action Plan setting out the management activities and milestones to be achieved for the
establishment of the EMA and for the capacity building activities in support of the EMA.
(21     Consultations with representatives from Parliament, Business, Labour. NGO's, Community Based Organizations (CBO's)
and other stake-holders, with the objective of forging a national consensus in support of the EMA.
(31     An Inter-Ministerial consultation comprising Ministers responsible for the 28 agencies with environmental management
functions. The objective of this consultation is to obtain a Memorandum of Understanding among the Ministers on
the coordination role of the EMA.
14)     Preparation and implementation of a Public Awareness and Education Programmes to sensitize the national community
on critical environmental issues facing the country and the need for effective environmental management.
151     Seminars,Workshops on the role and functions of the EMA. These events shall invite participation from the NGO's,
Business and Labour organizations, professional associations, community groups and from the 28 environmental
agencies. The objective will be to provide information on the operationalization of the EMA and to consider and
recommend participatory mechanisms for the national community in the management of sustainable development of
Trinidad and Tobago.
161     Preparation of a study on the scope and functions of a National Environmental Information System.
Aareed on behalf of:
Signature:                Date:                     Name/Title:
Executing Agency:                                                                     ______________
Implementing Agency:            \                                                              1  l"lA If.1  T    VC   t T\)
UNDP:                                               !                                                  iArl vP ,\j  Hu cIN-
I   ThkT kC1.1Ytjl\Jc



ANNEX E
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
GoRTT'S COUNTERPART CONTRIBUTIONS LETTER






55                          ANNEX E
MINIS TRY O   PLAIN'-LUNG A-ND DEVELOPM.l_NT
-a  -ERIC WILLIAMS FrNANCr 3CILDl::1
UV.1 WY' L!A-%!S PLkZA-LZV_':L 14
INDEPENDENCZ SQU'ARZ
POP.T-0.7-SPAjIN
Tel. 627-970.0                                                    TPRINIDAD)
flef.: P' ;'* 1/26/4
Mr. Douglas Wholey
LA3 Narural Resources Mlanagement and Rural Poverty
World Bank
Washington D.C. 20433
1818H Street N.W.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wholey,
Environmental ivlanasement Authoritv -
Access to Government's CounterRart Contribution
''su5m of TT56.0 million is allocated in the 1995 capital budget of the Ministry of
Plannina and Development for tle Establishment of the Envirow-nental Management Authority
Lcluded in this amount is Government's counterpart contribution of S900,000 which will be
sourced from the Consolidated Fund.
2.    As a matter of policy, priority is given by the Ministry of Finance to disbursing funds
which represent counterpart contributions under the capital programrne. Funds will be made
available from the Consolidated Fund to the Permanent Secre:ary Ministry of Planning and
Development for the establishment of the Environmental Management Authority at quarterly
intervals.  The amounts disbursed will be based on the expenditure requirements of the
Environmental Management Authority for the quarter.
3.    The procedure for accessing the funds will be as follow-::
(i)   the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Planning and Development submits a request
for the release of the amount required to the Budget Division of the Ministry of
Finance. The request must be accompanied by a status report on expenditures
made against any previous releases for the fiscal year, as well as information on
the projected activities and expenditure for which the release is sought. Approval
of the request is granted unless the information submitted is inadequate or
expenditure data is inconsistent with the findings of the Budget Division in
monitoring the project;



56                          ANNEX E
(ii)   the Budget Division advises the Permanent Secretarv, NMinistry of Planningn and
Development of its approval of the release of funds, upon which the Permanent
Secretary, Minis.ry of Plannin2 and Development seeks a grant of credit from the
Comptroller of Accounts to spend the released funds.  The grant of credit is
approved immediately, except in the circumstances where the Treasurv's cash flow
situation requires that the approval be temporarily deferred,
(iii)   when the Comptroller of Accounts approves the grant of credit, the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Planning and Development is authorised to issue cheques
for payment of goods and services up to the amount approved;
(iv)   when the Environmental Management Authority is established, the Permanent
Secretary, MOinistry of Planning and Development may issue a cheque in the
amount released to the Authority, which cheque may be lodged in a Central Bank
or Commercial Bank account opened in the name of the Authority.
4.    The counterpart contribution discussed here does not include salaries and other benefits
paid to officers of NMinistries and agencies who are responsible for carrying out environmental
functions. These officers will continue to be paid by their respective Mvinistries and agencies.
5.    I trust that this letter adecuately clarifies for the Bank the procedures that will be followed
for accessing Government's counterpart contribution to the project.
Yours sincerely,
V Permanent Secretary,
iNlinist rof Planning and Development



ANNEX F
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INTERIM OPERATIONS MANUAL OUTLINE






59                          ANNEX F
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INTERIM OPERATIONS MANUAL OUTLINE4
The Interim Operations Manual provides a structure for a manual that
can be utilized by personnel in a typical environmental management agency
office. When completed, the manual will provide a means by which
procedures and regulations can be implemented consistently. The major topics
outlined in the interim operation manual are:
Agency Mandate and Organizational Structure
Management Information System
Licensing
Hazardous Waste Management Program
Compliance Monitoring
Compliance Promotion
Response to Violations
Emergency Response
Safety
Dispute Resolution Mechanisms
Market Based Instruments
TABLE OF CONTENTS - INTERIM OPERATIONS MANUAL
(For a Typical Environmental Management Agency Office)
Executive Summary
Forward
Acknowledgement
List of Acronyms
1.0  PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF MANUAL
2.0   AGENCY MISSION, GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
2.1 Mission Statement
2.2 Goals
2.3 Objectives (Strategies)
2.4 Other Introductory Sections
4. Indicative and subject to change.



60                        ANNEX F
3.0 AGENCY ORGANIZATION
3.1 Agency
3.1.1   Organization Chart
3.1.2   Description of Duties and Functions
3.2 National/Local Government
3.2.1   Organization Chart
3.2.2   Description of Duties and Functions
3.3 Interagency Cooperation
3.3.1   Identification of Counterpart Agencies
3.3.1.1     Memorandums of Understanding
3.3.1.2     Description of other arrangements
4.0 MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
4.1 Recommended System
4.1.1         Air Pollution Information System
4.1.2         Water Pollution Information System
4.1.3         Environmental Impact Information System
4.1.4         Waste Management Information System
4.1.5         Industry Environment Information System
4.1.6         Environmental Law Information System
4.1.7         Laboratory Information System
4.1.8         Permitting Information System
4.1.9         Demographics Information System
4.1.10  Map Information System
4.1.11  Personnel Information System
4.1.12  Accounting System and Project Control
4.1.13  Library Information System
4.1.14  Public Relations and Publications
5.0   LICENSING
5. 1 Legislation
5.1.1   Issuance of Approval in Principle
5.1.2    Ancillary Licenses
5.1.2.1     EIA
5.1.2.2     Location Permit
5.1.2.3     Land Use Permit
5.1.2.4     Construction Permit
5.1.2.5     Hindrance Order Permits (or equivalent)
5.1.3   Issuance of Permanent Business Permit



61                         ANNEX F
5.2 Hindrance Ordinance (where applicable)
5.2.1   Legislative Basis
5.2.1.1      Hindrance Ordinance
5.2.1.2      Related decrees
5.2.2    Application Procedure
5.2.3   Information Requirements
5.2.3.1      EIA
5.2.3.2      Input from other Departments and Agencies
5.2.3.3      Public Input
5.2.4    Public Notice
5.2.5    Appeals Process
5.3 Guidelines for Issuing Licenses
5.3.1    Format
5.3.2    Operating Conditions
5.3.2.1      Liquid Effluent Standards
5.3.2.2      Sludge Disposal
5.3.2.3      Air Emission Standards
5.3.2.4      Hazardous Material Handling, Storage and
Disposal
5.3.2.5      Ozone Depleting Substance Use
5.3.2.6      Hazardous Waste Handling and Storage
5.3.2.7      Solid Waste
5.3.2.8      Tailings Disposal
5.3.2.9      Noise Levels
5.3.2.10     Emergency Response Plan
5.3.2.11     Self Monitoring and Reporting
5.3.2.12     Spill Reporting
5.3.2.13     Water Sources and Use
5.3.3   License Fees
5.3.4    Amendments
5.3.5   Renewal
6.0  HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
6.1 Program Policy and Strategy
6.1.1    Definition
6.1.1.1      Industries that Produce Hazardous Wastes
6.1.2   Strategy and Management Program
6.1.3   Policies
6.1.4    Goals
6. 1.5   Priorities



62                         ANNEX F
6.2 Regulations
6.2.1    Objectives
6.2.2   Scope
6.2.3   Requirements
6.2.3.1     Generator
6.2.3.2     Waste Transporter
6.2.3.3     Waste Collectors
6.2.3.4     Operators
6.2.4   Offenses
7.0   COMPLIANCE MONITORING
7.1 Self Monitoring and Reporting
7.2 Routine Inspection
7.2.1   Preparation
7.2.2   Contacts/Arrangements
7.2.2.1     Pre-inspection Meeting
7.2.2.2     Cooperation not received
7.2.2.3     Cooperation Received
7.2.2.4     Post Inspection Meeting
7.2.3   What To Look For
7.2.3.1     Off Premises
7.2.3.2     On Premises
7.2.3.3     Other Wastes/Effluent
7.2.3.4     Waste Water Treatment
7.2.4   Data Collection
7.2.4.1     Sampling Protocols
7.2.4.2     Sample Frequency
7.2.4.3     Preservation and Handling of Samples
7.2.4.4     Data Management
7.2.5    Reporting
7.2.5.1     Reporting From Laboratory
7.2.5.2     Inspection Reports
7.2.5.3     Further Action
8.0   COMPLIANCE PROMOTION
8.1 Technology Transfer
8.2 Workshops with Industry/Industrial Associations
8.3 Public Information
8.4 Role of Non Government Organizations
8.5 Role of Professional Organizations



63                         ANNEX F
9.0   RESPONSE TO VIOLATIONS
9.1 Selection of Enforcement Response
9.1.1    Enforcement Response Options
9. 1.2    Criteria/Factors
9.1.2.1      Harm or Potential Harm to Human Life or Health
9.1.2.2      Environmental Damage or Potential
Environmental Damage
9.1.2.3      Intent
9. 1.2.4     Deterrence (specific and general)
9.1.2.5      Compliance History
9.1.2.6      Economic Benefits of Non-compliance
9.1.2.7      Financial Status
9.1.2.8      Cooperation with Authorities
9.1.2.9      Attempts to Conceal Information
9.2 Administrative Sanctions
9.2.1   Information and Supporting Evidence Required
9.2.2   Issuance of Warnings
9.2.3   Issuance of Directions
9.2.4   Issuance of Closure Orders
9.2.5    Revocation of Tax Relief/Customs Duty Exemption
9.3 Criminal Sanctions
9.3.1    Role of Police
9.3.2    Legal Basis
9.3.3    Rules of Evidence
9.3.3.1      Hearsay
9.3.3.2      Expert Opinion
9.3.3.3      Continuity of Evidence
9.3.4   Investigation Procedures
9.3.4.1      Code of Criminal Procedures
9.3.4.2      Preparation and Strategy
9.3.4.3      Interrogation
9.3.4.4      Searches and Confiscation with a Warrant
9.3.4.5      Searches and Confiscation without a Warrant
9.3.5    Trial Preparation
9.3.5.1      Prosecutors Brief
9.3.5.2      Witness briefing
9.3.5.3      Sentencing Materials
9.3.6   Trial Procedures
9.3.7    Trial Preparation



64                         ANNEX F
10.0 EMERGENCY RESPONSE
10.1  Reporting
10.2  Response
11.0  SAFETY
11.1  Legal Obligations and Responsibilities
11.2  Safe Sampling Techniques
11.3  Hazard Identification
11.4  Monitoring Equipment
11.5  Containment and Neutralization
11.6  Protective Equipment
11.7  Emergency Medical Procedures
11.8  Additional Safety Information
11.8. 1 Transport Container Information
11.8.2    Electrical Grounding and Bonding
11.8.3    Hazards of Mixed Loads
11.8.4    Confined Space Entry
12.0 ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION MECHANISMS
12.1 Mediation
12.2  Arbitration
13.0  MARKET BASED INSTRUMENTS
13. 1 Effluent Charges
13.2  Tax Incentives



ANNEX G
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TRAINING AND TRAINING-RELATED
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE






67                        ANNEX G
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TRAINING AND TRAINING-RELATED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Objectives and Description
1.    The purpose of training and training-related technical assistance
provided under the project is to: (a) provide general environmental
sensitization of the staff of MoPaD and the EMA, the Participating Agencies,
other government agencies and the "public" at large; (b) improve technical and
managerial capabilities of staff of the EMA and the Participating Agencies;
and (c) strengthen the environmental network, locally and internationally.
2.    The training philosophy for the proposed agency would be developed as
part of the terms of reference of a Training Adviser (Attachment 1), provided
through training-related technical assistance under the project. It is envisaged
that the training philosophy would encompass: (a) creating a "knowledge-
based" agency with strong "hands-on" skills; and (b) devoting a large amount
of time to "on-the-job" training, emphasizing "learning by doing". Time
allocations away from the agency for training should not exceed 10-15 percent.
3.    Training and training-related technical assistance will support the three
components of the project: (a) MoPaD, through training programs and
workshops for Consensus Building of Stakeholders and Public
Education/Awareness; (b) the EMA, through provision of technical assistance
and training for staff in the agency, the provision of a specialized training
facility, a mobile "public awareness" vehicle, and other equipment. Much of
the training requirements under this component would be driven by the
findings of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). Therefore,
specific training programs will be prioritized once the NEAP has been
developed. Meanwhile, the following generic programs are provided to use as
a guide in developing such training programs; and (c) the Participating
Agencies, as part of institutional strengthening training would be provided for
the Environmental Officers and other staff of such agencies.
Training for MoPaD.
4.    This would include the following activities (to be financed by UNDP):
(a) Consensus Building of Stakeholders, involving consultations with
representatives from Parliament, Business, Labor, NGO's, Community Based
Organizations and other stakeholders, with the objective of forging a national
consensus in support of the proposed new agency; (b) an Inter-Ministerial
consultation comprising Ministers responsible for the 28 agencies with
environmental management functions, with the objective of concluding an
interim Memorandum of Understanding among the Ministers to formalize the
coordination role of the EMA (as a preliminary to the rationalization
exercises); (c) preparation and implementation of a Public



68                        ANNEX G
Education/Awareness Program to sensitize the national community on critical
environmental issues facing the country and the need for effective
environmental management; and (d) Seminars/Workshops on the role and
functions of the EMA and Participating Agencies. These events would invite
participation from NGO's, business and labor organizations, professional
associations, community groups, and the 28 environmental agencies
participating in the project. The objective would be to provide information on
the operationalization of the environmental management agency and to
consider and recommend participating mechanisms for the national community
in the management of the environment.
Training for the Environmental Management Authority
5.    A full-time staff Training and Education Officer (Attachment 2 -
Terms of Reference) would be located in the Information and Education Unit
of the EMA (base cost allocation US$109,000). Apart from ensuring
operationalization of the training program for EMA staff, this officer would be
responsible for coordinating training-related technical assistance for
development of: (a) a formal environmental training curriculum (including
training for teachers at the primary/secondary school levels, education
materials -- e.g. information kits on conservation) - base cost allocation
US$110,000; (b) non-formal environmental education (including continuing
education programs through the University of the West Indies (UWI),
churches, and NGO's) - base cost allocation US$100,000; and (c) a public
awareness campaign, utilizing where possible, the knowledge and experience
of existing NGOs - base cost allocation US$138,000.
Training for the Participating Agencies
6.    The project would provide training for the environmental officers and
other key staff in the Participating Agencies. This training, would essentially
be driven by the findings of the Institutional Rationalization Studies, and
therefore, it is not possible to specify details of the training program until
these studies have been completed. A first step, however, would be a "needs
assessment" to identify the training needs of individual staff. It is likely that a
series of core courses would be organized, on such topics as basic
environmental assessment, institutional policy making, and introduction to
the economics of enviromnental management. Based on the outcome of the
"needs assessment", more specialized training would be provided, broadly
covering monitoring and enforcement; green (renewable natural resources)
and brown (industrial pollution and waste management) issues. Attachment 3
(below) provides generic training modules which could be used as a guide in
developing the specialized training. Total base cost allocation for such training
is US$175,000, to be financed out of loan funds.
7.    Training-Related Tlchnical Assistance. Technical assistance will be
provided under the project for a Training Adviser (see para. 2) to undertake a
Training Design Study which will include development of: (a) a training
program for EMA staff and environmental officers and staff in the



69                         ANNEX G
Participating Agencies (based on the outcome of a "needs assessment" of such
staff), and incorporating core courses as mentioned above; (b) university and
other more general environmental programs; and (c) a training philosophy for
the EMA. Such technical assistance would be for six months, commencing on
start up of the new agency and would cover six months full time local training
adviser and two months foreign training adviser - base cost allocation
US$70,000.
8.    Traininlg. The project would provide:
(a)    Technical and Training Advisers (External) to provide staff of
the EMA with "on-the-job" training in specialized areas as follows:
(i) 18 months for the Officers of the Control and Compliance Unit, comprising
three months for standards development in each of the following areas;
environmental impact and assessment guidelines, pollution standards,
laboratory QA/QC standards, remediation/reclamation standards, public
participation guidelines, and environmental audit; and (ii) 13 months of
technical expertise on noise, air, water pollution; toxic and hazardous
substances; solid waste pollution; conservation; coastal zone management; and
renevwable/mineral resources (total 31 person months training resource at
US$20,000 p/m, total base cost allocation US$620,000);
(b)   Training Program for the EMA and Environmental Officers
in the Participating Agencies would be driven by the results of the Training
Design Study (para. 7) and would likely comprise a mixture of:
(i) short term local training, in the form of specialized short courses and
seminars to be held in Trinidad and Tobago. Such training would be
scheduled throughout the project and would ideally be delivered on a contract
basis by UWI, and/or consultancy firms; (ii) short term overseas training, in
the form of specialized short courses, study tours and seminars. Study-leave
periods would extend to a maximum of about two months per year; and
(iii) long term training - local or overseas, in the form of programs of one
year or longer, supported by scholarships financed by the project. This
training, which is likely to take place in the latter part of project
implementation, would not be limited to staff of the EMA to take account of
possible attrition. A possible alternative would be for trainees to work as
interns with foreign or local companies to learn and practice highly specialized
environmental concepts, techniques, process or skills in an actual job setting.
Suggested training courses for Environmental Officers include: integrated
environmental management demonstrating inter-relationship between all
development priorities and environmental management; general environmental
management practices; national environmental legislation; community
development and intersectoral collaboration for environmental management;
and the use of environmental management information systems and, in
particular, NEMIS. Attachment 4 provides some generic modules which
could be used as a guide for developing the training program for
Environmental Officers. (Total base cost allocation US$300,000).



70                        ANNEX G
9.    Training Facility. A key objective of training and training-related
technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project is to strengthen
environmental network capacities. To facilitate such networking, the project
would finance a centralized classroom facility (est. 300 sq ft) within the EMA
headquarters and audio visual equipment, and specialized training equipment
such as soil test kits (base cost allocation US$50,000). The proposed project
would also finance the purchase of a mobile "public awareness" vehicle (base
cost allocation US$26,000).
10.   Total project base cost allocation for training and training-related
technical assistance to be provided under the project is US$1,898,000 (of
which US$100,000 would be financed by UNDP). A Summary Matrix of
training and training-related technical assistance is included as Attachment 5.
Attachments



71                        ANNEX G
Attachment 1
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE - TRAINING ADVISER
EMA Information and Education Unit
OBJECTIVES
To assist in formulating and prioritizing training needs in the EMA,
Participating Agencies, and developing locally trained environmental trainers.
RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    Primary responsibility would be to undertake a Training Needs Study in
close collaboration with the EMA Training Officer. The study would include
development of:
(i) A training program for EMA staff and environmental officers in the
Participating Agencies (based on a "needs assessment " to identify staff
to be trained and their training needs, and development of "core" and
"specialized" courses); (ii) University and other more general
environmental programs; and (iii) a training philosophy for the EMA
which would emphasize "on-the-job" training.
The Training Adviser would work closely with local counterparts in the EMA,
staff of the Participating Agencies and trainers in universities in order to lay
the foundation for implementation of the training programs.
2.    A secondary responsibility would be to develop systems for:
(i) monitoring training progress and indicators; and (ii) ensuring training time
away from the agency does not exceed 10-15 percent.
CONTRACr TIME-FRAME
Assignment would be for approximately two months, commencing on
start up of the EMA.
QUALIFICATIONS
The Adviser would have a strong scientific background, preferably with
a degree in Personnel and Human Resource Management. A combination of
government and industrial experience in developing and delivering training
programs, especially in the environmental management area, would be
essential. Interpersonal communication skills, both oral and written, would be
essential.



72                         ANNEX G
Attachment 2
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE - TRAINING AND EDUCATION OFFICER
EMA - Information and Education Unit
POSITION SUMMARY
The Officer reports to the Chief Executive Officer. The incumbent
researches and develops strategies and programs to upgrade and
improve the technical knowledge and skills of EMA staff, to meet
established competency and knowledge requirements. Evaluates and
advises on training requirements of the Participating Agencies.
Arranges for servicing of approved training programs.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    Identifies core and specialized technical training needs and priorities in
consultation with staff.
2.    Develops annual calendar of training activities in consultation with the
CEO.
3.    Coordinates training-related technical assistance for the development of
the Training Design Study, a formal environmental training curriculum,
non-formal environmental education, and a public awareness campaign.
4.    Prepares work plans for approval by the CEO and implements and
controls approved work plans.
5.    Recommends policies and procedures on matters related to the EMA's
training facilities and audiovisual services and equipment.
6.    Monitors to ensure that training programs are designed and verified for
timely address of critical shortfalls between job competency requirements and
individual capability.
7.    Makes arrangements to service all approved training activities locally
and abroad. Ensures that formal training (i.e. "off the job") does not exceed
30 days per year for each professional, with a minimum of 10 days.
8.    Monitors, evaluates, and reports on-the-job effectiveness of all training
programs after delivery.



73                        ANNEX G
Attachment 2
9.    Maintains training records on courses, schedules, costs etc.
10.   Plans and organizes developmental activities for employees to enhance
their knowledge and skills.
11.   Develops a system to monitor effectiveness of on-the-job training.
12.   Undertakes special assignments and performs other related duties, as
required by the CEO.
SKILLS, KNOWLEDGE AND ABILITIES REQUIRED
EDUCATION: University graduate in Personnel and Human Resource
Management or Engineering/Technical Education, or Environmental Sciences,
preferably at the Masters level.
EXPERIENCE: A minimum of three years related experience.
SPECIAL SKILLS: Good communication skills, ability to coordinate, good
interpersonal skills.
SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS: Supervisory and management experience in a
wide range of employee relations activities. Ability to assess training needs,
design and deliver training programs and test and evaluate training
effectiveness.



74                        ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
Subject: Environmental Auditing
Environmental Auditing is one method through which pollution can be
reduced/prevented (waste minimization) as a result of comparatively low cost
changes, or even high cost improvements with short payback periods.
Environmental Auditing in general is not a well known or understood concept
in Trinidad and Tobago, nor do there appear to be persons with the requisite
skills to undertake such tasks. The objective of the training is consequently
two-fold; to increase the awareness of the benefits that can accrue from
environmental audits (sensitization); and to train professionals to undertake
such audits. The basic activities involved in such training are:
*     Identification by the EMA of 10 professionals to be trained in
environmental auditing and three companies, representing
different manufacturing sectors, willing to permit the consultant
providing the training and the trainees to perform an
environmental audit of their facilities.
-     A training workshop on environmental auditing for the selected
trainees, consisting of a two days course on general principals,
and three days each devoted to sector specific topics, to be
presented by international experts.
*     The ten trainees would undertake audits of each of the three
selected industrial facilities under the supervision and guidance
of the international experts. A maximum of three days per audit
would be allowed. The companies would be required to provide
data including water and energy consumption and quantities of
wastes arising from their industrial process. (All information
provided would be treated in the strictest confidence within an
understanding that no results would be made public).
*     Full confidential audit reports would be prepared under the
supervision of the international experts. The reports would
emphasize opportunities for improvements in reductions in air
emissions, liquid effluent, waste, and water and energy
consumption. The reports, which would highlight, where
possible, no-cost and low-cost improvements would be presented
to, and discussed with, the managers of the participating
companies. Four weeks should be allocated for this exercise.
*     Finally, an environmental audit manual would be prepared
which would be generic in nature, but based on the experiences
gained in the exercises described in the last paragraph. The



75                        ANNEX G
Attachment 3
manual would be used as centerpiece in a two-day general
training workshop for 30 people, to describe the methods used
and to emphasize the potential benefits of such audits.
Participants would be mainly, but not exclusively, drawn from
industry, the EMA, and the Participating Agencies. Speakers
might include managers from the companies participating in the
trial audits, and from other companies which may have had
environmental audits performed by private contractors.



76                          ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINNG FOR ENVIRONMNTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINIG MODULES
SUBJECT: INVESTIGATION TECHNIQUE
Specific Instructional objectives
a. To be able to conduct an Investigation
b. To be able to Interview for the purpose of investigating
c. To be able to give testimonv
Time:    24 hours
Method.  ClassroomrTeaching Discussion
Exercises!' in court room
Course topics
a. Principle of investigation in environmental problemns eg. pollution
b. Interview technique for environmental investigation
c. Testimony
d. In Court Behaviour
e. Scenario for investigation
f. Exercise
Reference:
To be developed as required.



77                          ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAEING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
SUBJECT: INSPECTION TECHNIQUES
Specific Instructionalobjectives:
After completion of the subject, the participants should be able to understand:
a. The scope and purpose of inspection techniques
b. Leg,al liabilities of Inspector
c. Inspection checklist, recording and preserving evidence
d. The use of photographs, sketches and samples
Time:     16 hours
Msethod:  ClassroorrmTeac hing Discussion
Field exercises
Course Topics:
a. Scope and purpose of inspection
b. Planning for inspection
c. Legal liabilities of Inspector
d. Inspection Mlanual: Checklist, recording, preserving evidence
e. The use of sk-etches, photograph and samples
f. Field exercise
Reference:
To be developed as required.



78                         ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
SUBJECT: NEGOTIATION AND MEDIATION FOR AN ADMINISTRATIVE
SANCTIONS PROGRAM
Specific Ins:ructional objectives:
a. To give personnel the capacity to negotiate compliance undertak;ing w ith plant
operation
b. To assist personnel to understand the dynamics of negotiation
c. To assist personnel to understand the nature and purpose of mediation
d. To assist personnel to determine when negotiation needs mediator and when
the process of negotiation must cease.
Time:    16 hours
Mlethod:  Classroom I/Teaching Discussion
Simulation and Role Playing
Course Topics:
a.       The concept of negotiation and mediation
b.       The appropriateness of negotiation and mediation in theory as contrasted to the
enforcement approach
c.       Technique of negotiation and mediation
d.        Simulation and Role Playing exercise
e.        Evaluation of Simulation and Role Playina
f.        Practical Application in the context of a typical environmental management office
operation
Se       Procedures. rules and guidelines to be followed in the field.
References:
To be developed as required.



79                          ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINIG MODULES
SUBJECT: POLLUTER PAYS PRINCIPLE
Specific Instructional Objectives of the course:
a. Tnderstanding the concept of polluter pays principle
b. Understanding how to analyze/method for polluter pays principle
c. Having capabilities in calculating the risk and contribution in the context of
polluter pavs principle
Tine:     16 hours
NMethod:  Classroomn' Teaching and Discussion
Practical,'Exercises
Course Topics:
a. Introduction on polluter pays principle
b. The concept of polluter pays principle
c. Analysis for polluter pays principle
d. Case studies,'exercises
References:
To be developed as required.



80                          ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
SUBJECT: LAND POLLUTION AND DEGRADATiON
Specific Instructional Objectives:
a. To be able to describe Nitroaen Cycles, sulfuric and carbon cycle as well as
general overniews on land structure and carrving capacitv
b  To be able to prepare samples for future analyses (ea,. Nitrate and Nitrite)
Time:     24 hours
MLethod:  ClassroomiTeachincr
Laboratorv/Exerc ises
Course Topics:
a. Land: general review on structure and carrying capacity
b  Review on Nitroaen cycle
c. Review on Sulfuric cycle
d  Review on Carbon cycle
e. Howv to prepare samples for future analyses
Reference:
To be developed as required.
1 3.   SU8JECT:NOISE
Specific instructional objectives:
a. Understandinga sources, characteristics and potential impact of noise
b. To be able to measure noise
c. To be able to interpret finding on noise measurements
Time:    8 hours
Mfethod:   Classroom1Teachinge Discussion
Laboratory/Exercises
Course Topics:
a. Physical property of noise and its potential impacts
b  How, to measure noise pollution
Reference:
To be developed as required.



81                         ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
SUBJECT: WATER QUALITY
Specific Instructional objectives:
a. To be able to measure/analyze the followving parameters: pH, Colour,
Temperature,  Conductivity,  Suspended  solids,  Turbidity,  Salinity,
Organoleptic, COD and BOD.
b. To be able to prepare samples for future analyses for:
bl.   Chemical parameters on metals (Ca, Mg,. Ba, Fe, Zn, Min, Cr, Cd, Ha,
Pb, As, Se, B, Ni, Co, etc)
bZ.   Bioloaical parameters eg. Coliform and benthic
c. To be able to prepare samples for future analyses for:
Inorganic matters ea. Chlorine, Chloride, Cyanide, Fluoride, Ammonia,
Nitrite, Nitrate, Sulfides.
d. To be able to prepare samples for future analyses on orgaanic matters: ea. fat
and oil, pesticide, phenolic,
e. To be able to prepare samples for future analvses on Radioactivity
Time:    100 hours
Method:  Classroom/Teaching Discussion
Laboratorv,'Exercises
Course Topics:
a. Water and pollution: sources and potential impact
b. Classification for water pollution
c. General Principle for preparation of samples
d. How to do sampling for chemical parameters
e. How to do sampling for biological parameters
f. How to do sampling for inorganic matter
g. How to do sampling for organic matter
h. How to do sampling for metals
i. How to samplina for radioactivity
j. Technique for measuring: pH, COD, BOD, Colour, Temperature,
Conductivity, Turbidity, Salinity, Oraanoleptic
k. Review of the National and Local Standards for Water Quality
References:
To be developed as required.



82                           ANNEX G
Attachment 3
SPECIALIZED TRAINNG FOR ENVIRONMENTAL STAFF
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION: INDOOR - OUTDOOR
Specific Instructional Objectives:
a. To be able to fix, prepare samples for future analyses
al.    Chemicalpara-meters: ea. Suspended particulate matter, S02, CO, NOx,
03, Hydrocarbon, H2S, NH3. Lead
al.    Biological parameters: eg. fungi and bacteria
b. To be able to measurei'analyze the physical parameter of air ea. temperature,
hurmiditv, wind velocirt air pressure
Time:     40 hours
Mlethod:   ClassroonrTeachina Discussion
Laboratorv.Exercises
Course Topics:
a. Physical & Chemical characteristics of "Normal Air"
b . Air Pollution: reviewv on sources and potential impact
c. How to sample air for chemical parameters
d. How to sample air for biological parameters
e. How to analvze physical parameters
f. Review of National/Local Air Qualitv Standards
References:
To be developed as required.



83                          ANNEX G
Attachment 4
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
FOR ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICERS
SUBJECT: METHOD AND PRINCIPLES OF COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
AND INTERSECTORAL COLLABORATION
Specific Instructional objectives:
a. IU nderstanding general concept of intersectoral collaboration
b. Inderstanding general concept of communitv participation
c. To be able to identify sectoral working with environmental issues in their
local area
d. To be able to identify potential resources for building com-munity participation
and intersectoral collaboration
Time:    8 hours
Mvethod:  Classroom .Teachinz Discussion
Panel Discussion involvin2 other sectors
Course Topics:
a. MIethod and Principles for Community Participation (including  private
sector).
b . The general concept for intersectoral collaboration
c. Panel Discussion involving other sectors oa: Intersectoral collaboration for
mitigating environment, e.g. Mfininstry of Health, Mtinistry of Industry,
M,inistrv of A griculture, NGOs. etc.
References:'
To be developed as required.



84                          ANNEX G
Attachment 4
GENERIC TRAINING MODULES
FOR ENVIRONMENTAL OFFICERS
SUBJECT: MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM  FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT
-Specific Instructional Objectives:
a. understanding the concept of management Information System  for the
Environment
b. Understanding and having skill on operating the system
Time:     40 hours
NMethod:  ClassroomnTeachina Discussion
Practical/Exercises
Course Topics:
a. Introduction to Operatina System
b. Word Processing
c. Spread Sheet
d. Input into Data Base
e. Collection,'Retrieval
f. Exercises
References:
To be developed as required.



85                               ANNEX G
Attachment 5
TRAINING AND TRAINING-RELATED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SUMMARY MATRIX
Project Component   Starting Year I       Starting Year 2      Starting Year 3
Support to MoPaD to   Consensus Building
Operationalize the   of Stakeholders;
EMA.                 Inter-Ministerial
Consultation; Public
Education and
Awareness Program;
Seminars and
Workshops on
Role/Functions of
EMA.1
Support to the       Trainring and         Training Program for   Training for Lawyers.
Environmental        Education Officer     staff (short-term local,
Management            (full-time staff);   short-term overseas,
Authority (EMA)       Training Adviser (6    long-term local or
months full-time local  overseas).9
training adviser/2
months foreign
training adviser);
Technical and
Training Advisers (31
person months) for 18
months.
Support to            Training for         Training Program for   Staff training in based
Participating        Environrmntal         Environmental         on outcome of 'needs
Agencies.             Officers in the Key  Officers in the       assessment, core
Particpating         additional            courses, and
Agencies (Short terrm   Participating      specialized training."
local, short-term over-  Agencies (short-term    Further training for
seas).               local, short-term     Environmental
overseas, long-term  Officers in additional
local or overseas)-lo    Participating
Agencies.
s UNDP-financed Training is for six months, commencing with start-up of project.
9 Training program for staff of the EMA will be prepared upon completion of the NEAP
(December 31, 1995), and will be defined in the Training Design Study. The Training
Program would be implemented during Years 2-4.
10 Training Program for Environmental Officers will be defined upon completion of the
NEAP, and will be in implemented in Years 2-4.
" Staff Training in the non-Key Participating Agencies will be defined upon completion of
the Rationalization Studies, expected in Year 2, and will be implemented in Years 3-4.






ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE






89                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE"2
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP)
Background: A significant amount of work has been done within Trinidad
and Tobago to describe various environmental problems and identify potential
methods for addressing these problems. Human and financial resource
constraints, however, require that systematic priorities be set for addressing
the problems, and that a broad consensus be established including the
appropriate institutional and policy interventions. Experience elsewhere has
indicated that such priority-setting and consensus-building can be addressed
effectively within a national environmental planning process the output of
which is referred to as the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
Purpose: The primary objective of this exercise is to establish, within a
consistent framework, the substantial technical environmental priorities within
Trinidad and Tobago. These problems might include, for example, land
degradation (soil erosion, soil productivity decline, toxic waste pollution, solid
waste disposal), water resource degradation (water pollution, groundwater
abstraction, marine contamination), renewal resource degradation (fisheries
decline, deforestation), or air and noise pollution. Establishment of these
relative priorities will assist in the staffing of the EMA and in the conduct of
specific interventions (institutional, policy, education, project investments). A
second objective of the project is to undertake this analysis with substantial and
broad input from all stakeholders to insure that some consensus is achieved
regarding appropriate interventions.
Implementation: To commence in March 1995; started by MoPaD, and
completed by EMA.
Thsks: Consultations and workshops; research of secondary information
sources; analysis of priorities; generation of a report; and, presentation of
findings in a final workshop consisting of senior policy-makers and
government functionaries. Specifically, the tasks include: (a) review of past
work conducted on the physical, economic and social impacts of various
environmental problems; (b) enumeration of environmental problems and their
causes within the country; (c) preparation and circulation of a brief
background paper describing the problems and suggesting broad principles and
criteria for establishing priorities; (d) consultations and workshops with
government agencies, the private sector, and NGOs regarding the
12.  Indicatiw and subject to change.



90                         ANNEX H
National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) - (Continued).
establishment of appropriate priority-setting criteria; (e) a survey of a
broad-based section of the population to determine the "person in the street's"
perception of environmental problems and role of the new Authority;
(f) selection of basic economic, environmental and social indicators that reflect
the selected priority-setting criteria; (g) analysis of the economic,
environmental and social impacts of the identified environmental problems;
(h) preparation and presentation of an interim report (based on above tasks) as
a background paper for a workshop of senior policy-makers and others,
mandated with confirming the environmental priorities and with identifying
potential policy interventions; (i) facilitation of the above one-day meeting or
workshop; (j) based on the above, analysis and selection of appropriate
interventions (policy, institutional, project, regulatory, education) for
addressing the highest priority problems; (k) formulation of recommendations
related to the timing of key EMA activities (staffing, studies, and enforcement
priorities) consistent with the above; and (1) preparation of a report regarding
the above tasks which Government is encouraged to subject to appropriate
process of public consultation.
Budget: US$139,000



91                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE13
Institutional Rationalization Studies
Background: Trinidad and Tobago currently has 28 organizations involved to
some degree with environmental management. It is recognized that there is
substantial duplication and overlapping of mandates. Additionally, some
environmental management needs are incremental to existing capacity. It is
foreseen that a major function of the EMA would be to coordinate the
responsibilities of a network of implementing institutions, rather than to
assume direct control. To facilitate this coordination, it will also be necessary
to streamline existing operations and rationalize some of the institutional
structures to ensure that environmental management is achieved
cost-effectively.
In addition, it has been recognized that some of the institutions with
important roles to play require strengthening before they can assist the EMA
carry out its mandate. This strengthening may take the form of investments in
human resources development, (through training or specialized staffing), or
other improvements (such as analytical facilities or computing equipment).
A budget of US$550,000 has been allocated for such strengthening within the
project.
Purpose: The primary purpose of these studies is to recommend cost-effective
mechanisms for rationalizing the environmental management mandates of all
relevant government institutions in Trinidad and Tobago. This rationalization
should be based on a relatively broad consensus. A secondary purpose is to
identify specific institutional strengthening requirements (in the form of
training or investment) in the participating institutions that would play a major
role in environmental management activities.
Implementation:    Study I:  Feb 1996; EMA Planning Unit
Study II: June 1996; EMA Planning Unit
Study Ill< Sept 1996; EMA Planning Unit
Approach: Based on the findings and recommendations of the NEAP, priority
environmental issues will be selected. The first study will focus on the cluster
of institutions whose responsibilities impinge on the environmental issue
determined as first priority, e.g. oil pollution of rivers. Subsequent
rationalization studies would focus on other environmental issues. The studies
would involve consultations and workshops with affected institutions; research
of secondary information sources; generation of a report; and, presentation of
13.   Indicatiw and subject to change.



92                          ANNEX H
findings in a workshop consisting of senior policy-makers and government
functionaries. Each study would involve two stages -- Stage I would focus on
defining options and lead up to a workshop involving all stakeholders. The
second phase would focus on recommending the implementation arrangements.
Specifically, the tasks would include:
Stage I
(a) identify relevant agencies and prepare a "responsibility matrix"
enumerating the current mandate of each agency, highlighting significant gaps
or overlaps;
(b) prepare a series of feasible rationalization 'options' which reflect differing
degrees of rationalization. These could, for example, include: (i) status quo,
with relatively few changes; (ii) moderate decentralization, which involves
moderate changes from the status quo; (iii) moderate centralization, which
involves substantial transfer of some mandates directly to the EMA; or,
(iv) full decentralization, which involves complete transfer of all environmental
mandates to a single authority;
(c) preparation of a paper describing the above options and highlighting
current responsibilities;
(d) consultation with agencies regarding this brief, and facilitation of a
one-day workshop to discuss the best means for proceeding;
Stage II
(e) analysis of the implications of the various scenarios;
(f) selection of a preferred scenario, involving specific recommendations;
(g) identification of specific implications for the EMA's mode of operation
and interaction with Participating Agencies;
(h) identification of specific training and investment priorities in the related
agencies, where such agencies require strengthening as a result of the
rationalization process. This should also include a 10 year investment plan for
such strengthening; (funding is available within the project for this purpose);
(i) preparation of a final report summarizing the above; and
(j) submission of recommendation to Cabinet for approval to implement
recommendations of report.
Budget:      US$90,000



93                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - TERMS OF REFERENCE14
National Environmental Information System (NEIS) Study
Background: Trinidad and Tobago currently has many organizations that are
or will be involved to some degree with collecting, storing and disseminating
information relevant to environmental management. Design and
implementation of an appropriate system would minimize the likelihood of
undue duplication.
Purpose: The primary objective of this exercise is to design an appropriate
NEIS network that can be used for sharing environmental information and for
assisting in compliance monitoring.
Implementation: March 1995; MoPaD/EMA
Tasks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: consultation; research
of secondary information sources; and, generation of a report. Specifically,
the tasks include: (a) interview members of relevant government ministries,
the Tobago House of Assembly, statutory bodies, universities, NGOs, and the
private sector to determine their needs for environmental management
information; (b) provide an assessment of current capacity within these
agencies to generate environmental management information; (c) conduct a
'needs analysis' of environmental information requirements and provide
recommendations relating to a NEIS network that would meet foreseen needs.
The needs should reflect the priorities forthcoming from the NEAP process;
(d) provide recommendations for the role of the EMA in this network;
(e) develop a preliminary four year NEIS investment plan that includes the
following potential elements: key information priorities; equipment needs the
proposed EMA and participating agencies, equipment needs for linkage to
external services; (f) provide a cost estimate of this plan; (g) identify specific
risks associated with implementing the plan, and recommend mitigating
measures; and (h) preparation of final report reflecting the above.
Budget: US$20,000
14.   Indicatiw and subject to change.



94                         ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE'5
Pollutant Inventory Study
Background: Establishment of enforcement priorities will, ultimately,
depend on targeting compliance enforcement to those areas which are the most
significant polluters. An inventory of current polluters will be used as a
baseline for establishing such priorities.
Purpose: The primary objective of this study is to conduct a detailed
inventory of major sources of industrial and other pollutants in Trinidad and
Tobago. A secondary objective is to provide baseline information for future
environmental impact assessment.
Implementation: July 1995; EMA Technical Unit.
Thsks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: consultation; research
of secondary information sources; and, generation of a report. Specifically,
the tasks include: (a) review of current environmental and economic
information sources; (b) identification of primary pollutants to be addressed;
(c) selection of an appropriate methodology for estimating the extent of
pollution by pollutant and source; (d) analysis of data to provide an inventory
of pollutants, by source and location. Where point sources are not estimable,
a general geographic region appropriate to environmental management (e.g.,
watershed, coastal strip, etc.) will be selected; and, (e) preparation of final
report.
Budget: US$85,000
15.   Indicative and subject to change.



95                         ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFI TERMS OF REFERENCE'6
Environmental Data Base (MIS) Study
Background: The implementation of investments identified by the NEAP, and
the implementation of programs being undertaken during the first year of the
EMA, will place substantial demands on the management capabilities of the
new agency.
Purpose: The primary objective of this study is to establish a management
information system of all environmental projects in Trinidad and Tobago. The
database will be maintained by the EMA and will serve as a management tool
for the agency and others.
Implementation: Started by MoPaD. To be completed by EMA.
Thsks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: consultation; research
of secondary information sources; establishment and installation of an
operational database; preparation and delivery of a training session for staff of
the EMA; and, generation of documentation. Specifically, the tasks would
include: (a) review of existing MIS databases (e.g. UNDP); (b) consultation
with GoRTT officials and others associated with the planning and execution of
environmental projects; (c) preparation of a needs analysis, highlighting
management requirements for an information system; (d) selection of two or
three alternative approaches to establishing a database that can meet these
needs; (e) analysis of costs, advantages, and disadvantages of the alternatives;
(f) preparation of a brief recommendation relating to the recommended MIS
approach; (g) upon acceptance of the recommendation, selection of
appropriate software for implementing the MIS project database;
(h) establishment of the database 'shell' on computer hardware in the EMA;
(i) entry of project information for up to five relevant projects into the
database; (j) preparation and delivery of a draft operating manual for the MIS
database; (k) preparation of a short (half-day) training session to demonstrate
the database to agency staff; (1) working closely with agency staff to provide
on-the-job training, entry of project information for up to 20 additional
relevant projects; (m) supervision (via quality control checks) of subsequent
entries and updates for a two month period after installation of the system; and
(n) revise and prepare a final operating manual for the MIS database.
Budget: US$30,000
16.   Indicative and subject to change.



96                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE17
Training Needs and Design Study
Background: A key goal of the proposed project is to improve the overall
level of environmental education and awareness in Trinidad and Tobago. The
project has identified approximately US$1.5 million in specific on-the-job and
specialized training initiatives that may be implemented over a four year time
horizon. Objectives for the overall training program are threefold: (a) general
environmental sensitization for all individuals - including staff of the EMA,
Environmental Officers and other staff in the Participating Agencies and the
public at large; (b) specific management and technical training for all staff in
the EMA and Participating Units; and (c) development of an environmental
network by providing numerous opportunities for individuals to interact and
form working groups for information sharing in either a formal or informal
setting. In addition, the training philosophy should reflect the development of
a knowledge-based expert institution that focused on active on-the-job training
while staff were implementing the mandate of the EMA. For example, staff
should be available to undertake their normal duties at least 85 percent of the
time, with the remainder potentially dedicated to formal or other training away
from their normal place of work.
Purpose: The primary purpose of this exercise is to design in detail a four
year investment plan that would improve general environmental skills and
awareness in the country. The investment plan would address the following
four thematic components: (a) a specialized training program for staff of the
EMA and the staff of the participating agencies; (b) a public awareness
campaign; (c) formal curriculum development; and (d) non-formal education
initiatives. In addition, the study would provide input into: (a) identifying the
most effective mechanisms for on-the-job training of agency staff by foreign
advisers; (b) formulating an appropriate job description for the Education and
Training Officer; and (c) identifying equipment needs for the EMA in the form
of classroom facilities, audio-visual vehicles, etc.
Implementation: Commencing July 1995: EMA Education Unit.
Tasks: The tasks would focus on: research of secondary information sources;
consultation; analysis of findings; and, generation of a report. Specifically,
(a) reviewing existing training and education programs with a view to
identifying resources within GoRTI that may be used or modified for one or
more of the thematic training components; (b) preparation and circulation of a
brief options paper identifying potential alternative training and public
17.   Indicative and subject to change.



97                        ANNEX H
Training Needs and Design Study (continued)
awareness mechanisms; (c) consultation with relevant agencies inside and
outside the government sector regarding the desirability of various
mechanisms; (d) analysis of alternatives based on consultations and any other
relevant research; (e) formulation of recommendations regarding an
appropriate specialized training program for staff of the EMA. The training
program should be designed to ensure that staff can still undertake their
normal duties. Training may include formal course modules, scholarships, or
short term study abroad. Specialized training needs for staff of related
environmental agencies should also be identified. The work should also
identify equipment needs for classroom facilities within the proposed agency;
(f) formulation of a public awareness campaign that will be managed by the
Information and Education Unit. The campaign should provide a
recommended monthly activity break-down and a monthly budget appropriate
for media coverage. The work should also identify equipment requirements;
for example, this equipment might include a mobile unit with public education
materials; (g) recommendations for adjusting the formal curriculum of
primary, secondary, and post-secondary education in Trinidad and Tobago.
This may include the introduction of specialized environmental training
modules or classes, or the sensitization of existing curricula to environmental
issues. The investment plan must identify any incremental training resources
that will be required to fulfill these recommendations, as well as any
institutional changes that may be needed to implement them; (h) formulation of
appropriate interventions and investments for non-formal education channels.
These should be designed in consultation with NGOs, churches, community
groups, and other relevant organizations. The plan should identify investment
requirements for this component over a four year time horizon;
(i) formulation of a job description for a permanent EMA Training and
Education Officer; (j) provision of input into the design of job descriptions of
agency staff and Terms of Reference for TA advisers to ensure that all of they
highlight the opportunities for on-the-job training; and (k) preparation of a
report describing the above.
Budget: US$70,000
Note: Provision has been made for an international TA adviser (two months)
and a local advisor (six months).



98                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE's
Alternative Mediation Study
Background: Most of the judicial mechanisms in Trinidad and Tobago are
currently backlogged with cases. This has prompted the government to look
into different mechanisms for settling disputes which might relate to
environmental issues. It is expected that, to some degree, the new
Environmental Commission will provide one mechanism for dealing with
disputes that are of a highly contentious nature. It is recognized, however,
that other complementary mechanisms may be required for less contentious
cases.
Purpose: The primary purpose of this exercise is to identify potential
alternative dispute resolution mechanisms that can improve the overall
cost-effectiveness of resolving environment-related disputes. These
mechanisms should be capable of shortening the overall process of dispute
resolution, and decrease the load on other parts of the country's judiciary.
Implementation: July 1995; started by MoPaD and to be completed by the
EMA Legal Unit.
Tasks: This activity would focus on research of secondary information
sources; consultation; analysis of findings; and, generation of a report.
Specifically:
(a)   review existing legislative and other relevant documents to
identify: (i) any relevant examples for alternative mediation;
and, (ii) any potential constraints to alternative mediation;
(b)   preparation and circulation of an issues paper identifying
potential alternative mediation mechanisms, along with some of
their pros and cons;
(c)   consultation with relevant agencies inside and outside the
government sector regarding the feasibility of various
mechanisms;
(d)   analysis of the feasibility of various mediation alternatives based
on consultations and other relevant research;
18.   Indicative and subject to change.



99                        ANNEX H
Alternative Mediation Study (continued)
(e)   formulation of recommendations to government and to the EMA
regarding the use of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms;
and
(f)   preparation of a final report summarizing the above, and
including options for institutional reforms that may be necessary
to implement the recommendations.
Budget: US$80,000



100                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE'9
PPP Incentive Study I
Background: Economic incentives, based on the polluter pay principle (PPP),
provide an opportunity for controlling environmental degradation while also
decreasing the costs of achieving target levels of environmental quality. A
potential long term role for the EMA is to provide advice relating to the use of
such instruments and to oversee the efficient implementation of any such
programs. There is currently very limited use of such instruments and very
limited awareness of their potential scope for application.
Purpose: The primary objective of this exercise is to increase the awareness
of policy-makers regarding the potential use of PPP incentives. A secondary
objective is to identify areas or sectors in Trinidad and Tobago where the
application of such incentives may be most beneficial.
Implementation: November 1995, EMA Planning Unit.
Tasks: This activity would focus on: consultation; research of secondary
information sources; generation of a report; and, presentation of findings in a
workshop consisting of senior policy-makers and government functionaries.
Specifically, the tasks include:
(a)   preparation and circulation of a brief background paper
describing the PPP and various types of incentive mechanisms
(e.g., strict regulatory, taxes and charges, market creation,
etc.);
(b)   consultation with government agencies, the private sector, and
NGOs regarding the potential use of such mechanisms;
(c)   review of existing activities in Trinidad and Tobago to select
simple case studies to show how such incentives are currently
being applied, or might be applied;
(d)   preparation and presentation of an interim report (based on
above tasks) as a background paper for a workshop of senior
policy-makers and others;
19.   Indicative and subject to change.



101                        ANNEX H
(e)   facilitation of a one-day meeting or workshop relating to the
potential use of PPP incentives;
(f)   formulation of recommendations relating to the use of
incentives, including: sectors/areas with greatest potential;
institutional requirements; risks; and, potential implementation
schedule; and
(g)   preparation of final report.
Budget: US$60,000



102                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFI TERMS OF REFERENCE20
PPP Incentive Study H
Background: Economic incentives, based on the polluter pay principle (PPP),
provide an opportunity for controlling environmental degradation while also
decreasing the costs of achieving target levels of environmental quality. A
potential long term role of the EMA is to provide advice relating to the use of
such instruments and to oversee the efficient implementation of any such
programs. There is currently limited use of such instruments and limited
awareness of their potential scope for application.
Purpose: The primary objective of this exercise is to design - as an example -
an economic incentive mechanism that might reduce environmental damage in
a high priority area. A secondary objective is to identify a feasible
institutional arrangement for implementing such incentives, and to increase
awareness regarding the institutional issues associated with implementing such
incentives.
Implementation: April 1996, EMA Planning Unit.
TAsks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: consultation; research
of secondary information sources; generation of a report; and, presentation of
findings in a workshop consisting of senior policy-makers and government
functionaries. Specifically, the tasks include:
(a)   review of findings of Incentive Study I;
(b)   selection of a high priority area in which an economic incentive
mechanism may be applied;
(c)   selection of a methodology for designing such a mechanism;
(d)   conduct a review of secondary sources to gather information
necessary for the design of this mechanism;
(e)   apply the methodology to the gathered information to develop a
case study of how the mechanism may be applied in Trinidad
and Tobago;
20.   Indicative and subject to change.



103                        ANNEX H
PPP Incentive Study II (Continued)
(f)   preparation of a brief background paper summarizing the case
study and outlining the institutional issues in implementing such
a system;
(g)   circulation of the paper as the background document for a
workshop of senior policy-makers and others;
(h)   facilitation of a one-day meeting or workshop relating to the
institutional issues associated with implementing such incentives;
(i)   formulation of recommendations relating to the use of
incentives, including: sectors/areas with greatest potential;
institutional requirements; risks; and, potential implementation
schedule; and
(j)   preparation of final report.
Budget: US$60,000



104                        ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE2'
Innovative Finance Mechanism Study
Background: Most of the polluter-pay types of incentives to be addressed in
other studies are expected to provide a direct incentive for sound
environmental management. The revenue impact of many of these incentives
is minimal. Other mechanisms for financing environmental institutions are,
however, available, but may have little impact on environmental quality.
Purpose: The primary purpose is to identify and assess long term options for
bolstering the financial autonomy of the EMA. A secondary purpose is to
identify the institutional requirements for implementing the preferred options.
Implementation: January, 1996; EMA Planning Unit.
TIsks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: research of secondary
information sources; consultation; analysis of findings; and, generation of a
report. Specifically, the tasks include:
(a)   review existing mechanisms to identify any relevant examples
for innovative financing schemes, including both involuntary
levies on existing fees (such as premia on postage stamps) and
voluntary levies (such as lottery or gaming proceeds);
(b)   collection of this material to be drawn from existing Trinidad
and Tobago agencies (where relevant) or from external sources;
(c)   consultation with relevant agencies inside and outside of
government regarding the feasibility of various mechanisms;
(d)   analysis of the feasibility of the various alternatives based on
consultations and any other relevant research;
(e)   formulation of recommendations to GoRTT and to the EMA
Board regarding the use of innovative finance mechanisms; and
(f)   preparation of a final report summarizing the above, and
including options for institutional reforms that may be necessary
to implement the recommendations.
Budget: US$40,000
21.   Indicative and subject to change.



105                       ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE22
Natural Resource & Envirommental Accounting (NREA) Study
Background: There is growing awareness that conventional methods of
growth accounting - GDP and GNP - do not adequately address issues relating
to environmental degradation such as the depletion of resource stocks and the
declining quality of non-marketed environmental goods and services.
Techniques of Natural Resource and Environmental Accounting have been
developed, and are currently being implemented by UN countries on an
experimental basis. These techniques provide an important tool for providing
policy makers with information that can assist in identifying the most
cost-effective environmental management interventions.
Purpose: The primary objective of this study is to identify environmental
information needs and appropriate environmental accounting methodologies for
assisting in cost-effective planning. A secondary objective is to generate a
case study based on existing information that can be used to identify the data
requirements and to serve as an educational tool for describing the linkages
between economic activity and environmental quality.
Implementation: January, 1996; EMA Planning Unit.
'Isks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: consultation; research
of secondary information sources; generation of a report; and, presentation of
findings in a workshop consisting of senior policy-makers and government
functionaries. Specifically, the tasks include:
(a)   review of environmental and economic information sources, and
consultation with government officials and others associated with
economic and environmental planning;
(b)   selection of one or more NREA methodologies that may be
applied in a case study, and sector(s), region(s) and/or time
period(s) to which the methodology may be applied;
(c)   preparation of a case study based on these selections;
(d)   preparation of a brief background paper summarizing the case
study and outlining the implications and potential applications of
the work;
22.   Indicative and subject to change.



106                      ANNEX H
Natural Resource & Environmental Accounting Study (Continued)
(e)   circulation of the paper as the background document for a
workshop of senior policy-makers and others;
(f)   facilitation of a one-day meeting or workshop relating to natural
resource and environmental accounting;
(g)   formulation of recommendations relating to the use of NREA
including: sectors/areas with greatest priority; information
requirements; institutional requirements (including the role of
the EMA); potential implementation schedule; and,
(h)   preparation of final report.
Budget: US$100,000



107                       ANNEX H
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STUDIES - TERMS OF REFERENCE23
Mid-term Evaluation Report
Background: The Environmental Management Project includes a significant
number of initiatives that involve establishing, reforming or strengthening
institutions on the basis of ongoing consultations and studies. Although the
original project design will accommodate many potential contingencies, a
formal review of performance, as well as future options, will facilitate
implementation of the latter phases of the project. This is particularly critical
because capacity development may well constrain future plans, and some
mechanism is therefore required to ensure that any implementation bottlenecks
are addressed effectively. The mid-term review will require that an
independent arms-length report be prepared for review by the Govemment and
the Bank.
Purpose: The report is an integral part of the mid-term review process. The
mid-term review has the following objectives: (a) monitoring and assessment
of the implementation phase and of the effectiveness of MoPaD during this
phase; (b) assessment of the capacity of the EMA and the Participating
Agencies in fulfilling their environmental management functions; (c) review of
original work program with a view to identifying implementation bottlenecks
and appropriate strategic revisions to project design; and (d) review of specific
work components to assess specific modifications to future project components
(especially as these relate to training and supplementary institutional
strengthening.)
Implementation: not later than June 1997; EMA Planning Unit with input
from MoPaD.
lhsks: The tasks associated with this activity focus on: consultation; review
of all project outputs; and, preparation of recommendations. It will be carried
out in two phases: Phase I involves a brief delineation of monitoring criteria;
and, Phase II involves the actual review and assessment. The specific tasks
include:
Phase I
(a)   consultation with the EMA and MoPaD to confirm monitoring
and review criteria;
23.   Indicative and subject to change.



108                        ANNEX H
Mid-term Evaluation Report (continued)
(b)   preparation of an information request to be submitted to all
relevant participating agencies;
Phase *1
(c)   conduct of interviews with project staff and consultants, after
allowing three to six months response time to the information
request;
(d)   assessment of the current level of training and institutional
capacity within the environmental management agency and
participating agencies given: (i) the observations and
recommendations of the training study; (ii) the priority areas
identified under the NEAP; and (iii) the institutional
recommendations in the rationalization study;
(e)   assessment of the effectiveness of project activities relating to
the following individual project components: (i) consensus
building; (ii) public awareness campaign; (iii) operations
manuals; (iv) international treaty reporting; (v) complaints
handling; (vi) interim compliance monitoring;
(vii) state-of-environment reporting; (viii) curriculum
development; (ix) non-formal environmental education;
(x) EIA reviews; and, (xi) planning studies;
(f)   provision of recommendations relating to adjustments of future
scheduled activities, given current levels of training and the
progress achieved in above activities;
(g)   identification of additional activities, funding requirements and
funding opportunities that may beneficially complement the
project. This task should also include a description of other
environmental projects initiated by GoRlT during the period
under evaluation; and
(h)   preparation of a 'mid-term evaluation' report for review by
Government and the Bank.
Budget:      US$100,000



ANNEX I
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
The project commenced in July 1994 under joint financing from
GoRTT and UNDP. Bank support will be provided over a four
year period, extending to December 1999. Schedules for the
following three major activities follow:
(a)    MoPaD (WBS 1)
(b)    Environmental Management Authority (WBS 2)
(c)    Participating Agencies (WBS 3)






Trinidad and Tobago Environmental Management Project
Project Implementation Schedule
>44     |      1995             1996              1997              1998             1999
ID   WBS    Function/Activity                                      Financinq    03 04  01 1 02 1 03  0 Q4  01  0 Q2  03  04 1    01 02 1 031 04  01  02  03  04 1    02  03  04
1   1        MoPaD - EMA START-UP                                                  1/1.  _ 3ti1:
2   1.1         EMA Preparatory Activities                          UNDP            1/1    F       6/30
3   1.2         Environmental Task Force                           GORTT            1831      4/26
4   1.3         Co-ordinator                                        UNDP            1/1 r- 1 6/30
5   1.4         Short-temm Consultants                              UNDP            1/1          6/30
6   1.5         Procure Equipment                                UNDPABRD           1/1 r       16/30
7   1.6         Office Support                                     GORTT            1/1 -m       630
8   1.7         Pre-EMA Pnonty Activities                                          1/1 _                     _w331
9   1.7.1           Consensus Building                              UNDP            1/1           630
10   1.7.2          Public Education/Awareness                      UNDP            1/1     - 630.
11   1. 7.3         Draft Operation Manual                          UNDP               311        6130
12   1 7.4          NEAP                                             IBRD              3/1                 12/31
13  1.7.5           NEIS Study                                      UNDP               3/1                     3131
14   1.7.6          Medium Term Development Plan                    UNDP               31      1      9/30
15   1.7.7          Workshops                                       UNDP               3/1        6/30_
16   1.7.8          lntemationaJ Treaty Reporting                   UNDP               3/1  == 6/30
17  2        ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY                                    1/1 '_ 30
18  2.1          General Management                                                      51                                       _                                      6.30
19  2.1.1           Board of Directors                           GORTTABRD         ,      st                                                                            6/30
20   2.1.2          CEO                                          GORTrABRD                  6/1                                                                        630
21  2.1.3           Start-up Coordinator                            IBRD                     7/1                    6/30
22   2 2         Administrative Unit                                                    4/3 W        I.                                                                - 6/30
23   22.1           Administrative Officer                       GORTTABRD                   7/1                                                                        6/30
24  2.2.2           Support Staff to Unit                        GORTrABRD                   7/1                                                                        6/30
25  2.2.3           Office Equipment, Vehicles                       IBRD                                                                                               6/30
26   2.2.4          Office Space, Ublities, etc.                 GORTTABRD                  6/1                                                                         6/30
27  2.2.5           Audit                                        GORTrABRD                             2/1                                                              6/30
28  2.3         Information/Education Unit                                                  7/1 _                                                                        6/30
29  2.3.1           Information Officers                         GORTTABRD                   7/1                                                                        6/30
30  2.3.2           Education Officer                            GORTTABRD                      9/1                                                                     6/30
31   2.3.3          Support Staff                                 GORTTABRD                  7/1                                                                        fi/30



I



Trinidad and Tobago Environmental Management Project
Project Implementation Schedule
I4            1995             1996             1997             1998             1999
ID   WBS    Function/ActivitV                                   Financing     03j. Q49L0| 2 |Q3| 40        Q2 03 Q4 Q1  02 03 04 01 02 03  04  01  02 03 04
32  2.4         Planning Unit                                                            7/1 _        .                                                             6/30
33  2.4.1          Planning Officer                            GORTT/IBRD                 7W1                                                                 . ....  6/30
34  2.4.2          Support Staff                               GORTT/ABRD                 W1                                                                       6/30
35  2.5         Legal Unit                                                               7/1                                                                     _ 6/30
36  2.5.1          Legal Officer                               GORTT/IBRD                  8/1        .                                                            6/30
37  2.5.2          Complaints Officer                          GORTTABRD                                              W1 _                                         6/30
38  2.5.3          Support Staff                               GORTT/IBRD                 7/1                                                                      6/30
39  2.6         ControVTechnical Unit                                                    7/1                                                                  M _ 6/30
40  2.6.1          Technical Officers                          GORTrABRD                   8/1                                                                     6/30
41  2.6.2          Support Staff                               GORTT/lBRD                 7/1                                                                      6/30
42  2.7         Control and Compliance Activiies                                         7/t1.                                                                   _ 6/30
43  2.7.1          Intenm Compliance Monitonng                 GORTT/IBRD                 7/1                                                                      6/30
44  2.8         Technical & Training Advisors                                            7/1                                                                        6/30
45  2.8.1          EIA Guidelines                                 IBRD                    7/1                  6/14
46  2.8.2          Poluiion Standards                             IBRD                    7/1                          12-6
47  2.8.3          Laboratory,QA/QC Procedures                    IBRD                    7/1          12/22
48  2.8.4          Remediation/Reclamation Standards              IBRD               .6/17                             12/6
49  2.8.5          Public Participation Guidelines                IBRD                                .12/9                             11/21
50  2.8.6          Environmental Audit                            IBRD                                                      7/18 W6/30
51  2.9         Information, Training & Education Activities                             7/1                                                                        6/30
52  2.9.1          Ubraiy                                         IBRD                    7/1                                                                      630
53  2.9.2          Complaints HanclingtReportlng                  IBRD                    7/1                                                                      6/30
54  2.9.3          SOE Reports                                    IBRO                          12/1                                                               6/30
55  2.9.4          Intemational Treaty Reporting                  IBRD                    7/1                                                                     6/30
56  2.9.5          Public Awareness Campaign                      IBRD                    7/1               m       l
57  2.9.6          Curriculum Devebpment                          IBRD                    7/1                                                                     6/30
58  2.9.7          Environmental Education (NFE)                  IBRD                    7/1                                                                      6/30
59  2.9.8          Training Pogam                                 IBRD






Trinidad and Tobago Environmental Management Project
Project Implementation Schedule
94      1      1995              1996             1997              1998              1999
ID   WBS    Function/Activity                                      Financang    Q3 04  01  02 03   Q4  01  02  03  |040   02  Q3 04 01   2  03  04  01  02   3  0 Q4
60  2.10        Studies & Planning Exercises                                       1/1 .                                                                              _  6/30
61  2.10.1         Institutional Rationalization Study I          UNDPABRD                             2/1 -=         8/1
62  2.10.2         Inventory Study                                  UNDP            1/1                10/6
63  2.10.3          MIS Study                                       UNDP            1/1                10/6
64  2.10.4          Training Design Study                           IBRD                     7/1           12/31
65  2.10.5         'Altemative Mediation' Study                      IBRD                    7/1            1/26
66  2.10.6          PPP Incentive Study I                            IBRD                         11/1         4/1
67  2.10.7          PPP Incentive Study 11                          IBRD                                  4/1     -       9/30
68  2.10.8         Innovative Finance Mechanism St.                 IBRD                              1/1        5/17
69  2.10.9          NREA Study                                      IBRD                              1/1               10/4
70  2.10.10        Institubonal Rationalization Study 11            IBRD                                     6/1      7    11/29
71  2.10.11         Insttutional Rationalization Study III          IBRD                                          9/1          3/3
72  2.10.12         Midterm Review                                   IBRD                                       8/1                       9/30
73  2.10.13         Ongoing Support & Studies                        IBRD                             1/1        --                      *i 6/30
74  3        PARTICIPATING AGENCIES (PAs)                                            2/27 _              ,                                                               6/30
75  3.1          Key PAs                                                             2/27 _                                                                            - 6/30
76  3.1.1          Identify Key PAs                                GORTT             2/27 *
77  3.1.2           Draw up MoUs with EMA                           GORTT                   6o     7/31
78  3.1.3           Nominate Environmental Officers                 GORTT                     8/1 *
79  3.1.4           Procure Equipment                            GORTrABRD                    8v1                                                                        6/30
80  3.1.5           Provide Training and TA                      GORTrABRD                    8/1        .630
81  3.2         Additional PAs                                                                                         1/1 ..                                            6no
82  3.2.1           Draw up MoUs with EMA                          GORTT                                               1/1 *
83  3.2.2           Nominate Environmental Officers                GORTT                                               1/1
84  3.2.3           Procure Equipment                            GORTTABRD                                              1/1                                             6/30
85  3.2.4           Provide Training and TA                      GORTTABRD                               '              1/1
86  3.3         Operate NEMIS                                    GORTTABRD                                4/1                        . '                                6/30



