LOAN NUMBER 3863 TR
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                , 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3863 TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated #       4    -&         , 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated January 12,
1995 (the Environmental Policy Letter), describing the Borrower's policies for
environmental management;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 198:, with the modifications set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (1) and a
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of
Article m, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "Environmental Management Authority" means the environmental
management authority referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)    "Implementation Plan" means the plan set forth in the Environmental
Policy Letter;
(c)    "NEAP" means the action plan referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this
Agreement;
(d)    "Participating Agencies" means: (i) the Borrower's agencies and
departments set forth in the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated January 27, 1995; (ii) the
Borrower's agencies and departments identified under the rationalization program of the
Borrower's environmental management framework, pursuant to the NEAP and of the
action plans referred to in Section 3.05 (b); and (iii) any other agency or department of
the Borrower that may be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e)    "Recurrent Costs" means the incremental cous and expenses for the
implementation of the Project related to the operation of the Environmental Management
Authority, including, inter alia, office supplies, maintenance, materials, travel expenses,
salaries and bona fide employment related benefits, and services;
(f)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(g)    "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that shall
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of six million two hundred fifty


﻿-3-
thousand dollars ($6,250,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan,
with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable
during such Interest Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.


﻿-4-
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per
annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's
investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the Bank after
July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
of a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to read
as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
January 1, April 1, July I or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April
1 and October I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE M
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause the
Environmental Management Authority, through the Subsidiary Agreement, to carry out
the Project with the cooperation, with respect to Parts 6 and 7 of the Project, of the
Participating Agencies, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, managerial, ecological and environmental practices,
and in accordance with the Environmental Policy Letter, the NEAP and the
Implementation Plan, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    The Borrower shall maintain an environmental management authority with
responsibilities, functions, structure, funds, facilities, management and staff, all
satisfactory to the Bank (the Environmental Management Authority), for purposes of
coordinating and implementing the Borrower's overall environmental management
policies.
(c)    The Borrower shall enter into agreement with the Environmental
Management Authority (the Subsidiary Agreement), under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)    without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 (a) (iii)
and (c) of the General Conditions, in the month of September of each year until the
completion of the Project, furnish to the Bank a report (the annual report) on the progress
in the implementation of the Project during the previous 12 months, of such scope and


﻿-6-
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, which shall include, inter alia, the proposed
budgetary allocation for the carrying out of the Project during the next succeeding fiscal
year;
(b)    not later than 24 months after the Effective Date, employ consultants in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, for purposes of
preparing the mid-term evaluation report referred to in paragraph (c) below;
(c)    without limitation to the provisions of Sections 9.01 (a) and 9.07 (a) (iii)
and (c) of the General Conditions, in the month corresponding to 28 months after the
Effective Date, furnish to the Bank an evaluation report (the mid-term evaluation report)
on the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including,
inter alia, an assessment of the capacity of the public environmental subsector, including,
inter alia, the Environmental Management Authority.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions in Section 9.01 (a) (i) of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    in the month of October of each year until the completion of the Project,
hold a review, jointly with the Bank (the annual review), of the progress in the
implementation of the Project during the previous 12 months and the proposed budgetary
allocation for the carrying out of the Project during the next succeeding fiscal year, such
reviews to be based on the report referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)    in the month corresponding to 30 months from the Effective Date, hold
a review, jointly with the Bank (mid term review;, of the implementation and results of
the Borrower's environmental policy, as described in the Environmental Management
Policy Letter, and of the Project, such review to be based on the report referred to in
Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement; and
(c)    if, after exchanging views with the Borrower during any of the reviews
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Bank is not satisfied with the progress
made in the carrying out of the Project and if the Bank shall so request, not later than
sixty days after such request, furnish to the Bank, and thereafter carry out, a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Bank, aimed at achieving adequate progress in the carrying out
of the Project and meeting its objectives.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)    not later than twelve months after the Effective Date, prepare and furnish
to the Bank, and thereafter carry out, a national environmental action plan (the NEAP),


﻿-7-
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the priorities for the rationalization
of the Borrower's environmental management framework; and
(b)    not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date, prepare and
furnish to the Bank, and thereafter carry out, action plans, acceptable to the Bank, to
rationalize the Borrower's environmental management framework in accordance with the
priorities set forth in the NEAP and with the results of the studies under Part 4 (b) of the
Project.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) morths after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;


﻿-8-
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:


﻿-9-
(a)    that the Environmental Management Authority has been established in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)    that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the parties
thereto in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date              q /95  is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the Gene 1 Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the lorrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
Eric Williams Finance Building - 14th floor
Independence Square
Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, West Indies
Telex:
387-22549
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:             Telex:
INTBAFRAD                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.             82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin Aknerica and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods                            1,100,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Recurrent Costs                  1.,750,000       100% up to an amount
disbursed
equivalent to
$1,000,000; 75% up
to an amount dis-
bursed equivalent
to $1,450,000;
and 50% thereafter
(3) Consultants'                     3,000,000        85% of local ex-
services and                                      penditures for
training                                          services of con-
sultants domici-
*         led within the
territory of the
Borrower and 100%
of foreign expenditures
for services of other
consultants


﻿- 13 -
(4) Unallocated                        400,000
TOTAL                      6,250,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for:
(a)    expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals,
in an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000, may be made in respect of categories 1
and 2 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date one year before the
date of this Agreement or July 1, 1994, whichever date is the latter; and
(b)    expenditures made for an agency or department of the Borrower other
than the Participating Agencies and the Environmental Management Authority.
4.     The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of $25,000 for goods, $50,000 for individual consultants and $100,000 for
consultants' firms, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Borrower's efforts to: (a) improve
its institutional and legal framework for environmental management; and (b) define and
implement a work program for environmental priorities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
1.     Establishment and operation of the Environmental Management Authority.
2.    Implementation of a public awareness program on environmental issues and the
importance of environmental management.
3.    Implementation of an environmental training program for the public and private
sectors.
4.     Carrying out of studies on: (a) a national environmental action program; and (b)
the rationalization of the public institutional framework responsible for environmental
management and enforcement.
5.     Carrying out of studies and other activities on environmental issues including,
inter alia, inventories of sources of pollutants, databases of projects with environmental
effects, design of a public participation campaigns, training programs, evaluation of
alternative mediation schemes, use of economic instruments to complement regulatory
controls, alternative sources of financing for environmental initiatives; and use and
potential of natural resources and environmental accounting methods.
6.     Provision of training and support, including, inter alia, equipment and supplies,
to the Participating Agencies.
7.     Establishment of a national environmental management information system.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                 (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1998                   170,000
April 1, 1999                     175,000
October 1, 1999                  180,000
April 1, 2000                     190,000
October 1, 2000                  195,000
April 1, 2001                    200,000
October 1, 2001                  210,000
April 1, 2002                    215,000
October 1, 2002                  225,000
April 1, 2003                    230,000
October 1, 2003                  240,000
April 1, 2004                    250,000
October 1, 2004                  255,000
April 1, 2005                    265,000
October 1, 2005                  275,000
April 1, 2006                    285,000
October 1, 2006                  295,000
April 1, 2007                    305,000
October 1, 2007                  315,000
April 1, 2008                    330,000
October 1, 2008                  340,000
April 1, 2009                    350,000
October 1, 2009                  365,000
April 1, 2010                    390,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable to
the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                 0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                 0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                   0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before                 1.00
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A: Procurement Procedures
1.     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts
awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from a list of potential suppliers, broad enough to assure
competitive prices (which list is to include all suppliers when there is only a limited
number), with established services and maintenance facilities in Trinidad and Tobago, and
in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof). The Borrower shall submit the list of suppliers
referred to above to the Bank for approval before inviting the relevant bids.
2.     (a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase of the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank"s prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part C. 1 of this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for: (i)
a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60)
days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B: Shoping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on


﻿- 18 -
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part C: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of
Part A of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant


﻿- 19 -
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall
not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (3) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$750,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)    (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required


﻿- 21 -
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)    if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 22 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
(b)    If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


