Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7614-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
MAY 21, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
|his document has a resticted distribution and may be used by redpiens only in the performance of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Rupee  -  US$0.0l
21.6 Rupees  -  US$1.0
FISCAL YA
July 1 to June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AARI        - Ayub Agricultural Research Institute
AEC         - Atomic Energy Commission
AERU        - Agricultural Economics Research Unit
ARD         - Agricultural Research Division
ARI         - Agricultural Research Institute
ARINA       - Agricultural Research Institute for Northern Areas
ARP-I       - Agricultural Research I Project (Cr. 1158-PAK)
AUF         - Agricultural University, Faisalabad
AU2         - Agricultural University Peshawar
AZRI        - Arid Zone Research Institute
BARB        - Baluchistan Research Board
CIDA        - Canadian International Devolopment Agency
CIMMYT      -  International Maize and Wheao: Improvement Center
DFDC        - Deciduous Fruits Development Center
DGAR        - Director-General of Agricultural Research
ECNEC       - Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FAO/IBRD CP - Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Prograra
FY          - Financial Year
FYP         - Five Year Plan
GONWFP      - Government of North West Frontier Province
GDP         - Gross Domestic Product
GOP         - Government of Pakistan
HYV         - High yielding variety
ICARDA      -  International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
IDA         - International Development Association
IRRI        - International Rice Research Institute
ISPAR       - International Service for National Agricultural Research
MART        - Management of Agricultural Research and Technology
MINFAC      - Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOU         - Memorandum of Understanding
MSU         - Management Support Unit
NARC        - National Agricultural Research Center
NCA         - National Commission on Agriculture
NCRP        - National Coordinated Research Program
NMARP       - National Master Agricultural Research Plan
NWFP        - North West Frontier Province
PARC        - Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
PARB        - Punjab Research Board
PC-l        - Planning Commission Form No.1
PCCC        - Pakistan Central Cotton Committee
PCRWR       - Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources
PFI         - Pakistan Forestry Institute
PIU         - Project Implementation Unit
PRMP        - Provincial Research Master Plan
PSC         - Project Steering Committee
SAU         - Sind Agricultural University
TIPAN       - Transportation and Integration of Provincial Agriculture
Network Project
TOR         - Terms of Reference
USAID       - United States Agency for International Development
WAPDA       - Water and Power Development Authority



F|OR OMCIUL USE ONLY
kiXT'-AN
|AG_RICULTURAL RuS, ACH II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A.  Introduction  .....                       .                      1
B.  Agriculture Sector  . . . . . . . . .                           1 . . . . . . . . . . .
C.  Development Issues, Objectives, and Strategies  . . . . . . . 2
D.  Bank Grout's Lending  .............  .....  .  .  5
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN PAKISTAN
A.  Research Institutions and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . 7
B.  Constraints to Research   . . . . . i . i . . . . . . . . . . 10
C.  Policy Guidance, Planning, and Coordination   . . . . . . . . 11
D.  Research Management and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
E.  Training and Research/Extension Linkages  . . . . . . . . . . 13
F.  Restructuring Pakistans Research Systems  . . . . . . . . . . 14
G.  Rationale for IDA Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B.  Sumiary Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C.  Detailed Project Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
D.    Cost  Estimates  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
E.  Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26
F.    Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
G.  Disbursements   ...............  ......  .  . 29
H.  Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Provincial Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
B.  Federal Implementation  ........  ..  ..  ..  ...  .   . 32
C.   Training  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .  34
D.  Project Assessment, Mid-Term Review, and Supervision  . . . . 34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Pakistan in October/November 1988 comprising Messrs. M. Saddington,
J. Hayward, M. Woldu (IDA), S. Freiberg, D. Sutton and N. Yates (Consultants)
and a post-appraisal mission in February and May, 1989, of Messrs. M.
Saddington, M. Woldu and S. Freiberg. Mr. H. Akhavan assisted with processing
project cost estimates, and Miss G. Moray typed and produced the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Justification ................ . 35
B. Risks .......................... . 36
C.  Environmental Effects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS      ........... . 37
ANNEXES
1. Financial Data
Table 1: Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Table 2: Estimated Annual Project Expenditures
Table 3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 4:  Proposed Allocatioa of Credit/Loan Funds
2. Organization and Management
3. Horticultural Research Programs
4. Livestock Research Programs
5. Soil Science Research Programs
6. Integrated Pest Management
7. Social Science Research
8. Diagnostic Surveys and Adaptive Research
9.  Management Support Unit Staff
10. Training and Technical Assistance
11. Procedures for Collaborative Research Selection and Administration
12. Participatintg Research Institutes and Programs to be Funded
13. Implementation Schedule
14. Supervision Plan
15. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHART
1. Organizational Chart for Strengthened PARC Planning Directorate
MAPS
1. IBRD 21279 - Main Agricultural Research Institutions and
Agroecological Zones



- iii-
PAKISTAN
AGRI  ALMJPL RESEARCH II PROJECt
Credit and Project Summary
&2Borrower:    Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries: Pakistan Agricultural Research Council and Agricultural
Research Systems of Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and North-West
Frontier Provinces.
F   Amount:    Credit:  SDR 44.4 million (US$57.3 million equivalent)
[   Terms:     Credit:  Standa_d, with 35 years maturity.
Project        The project would be the second phase in a long-term program
Descripti2n:   to strengthen Pakistan's agricultural research.  Under the
first phase, the Agricultural Research I Pviject (Cr.1158-PAK)
strengthened the federal research system to eTable it to guide
and coordinate research throughout Pakistan. This project
would concentrate on the provincial research services,
reorganizing them to introduce more autonomy and flexibility
into staff and financial administration, and basing staff
promotion on merit and research achievement. It would
establish the structures and procedures for research planning,
prioritizing, resource allocation, programming, monitoring and
evaluation. It would assist the provinces to prepare long-term
Provincial Research Master Plans during the project's first two
years. It would finance priority research programs in
horticulture, livestock, soil science, integrated pest
management and social sciences which the Government has
identz.fied as areas of research to support the national
development objectives of the Seventh Five Year Plan.
Following completion of the Provincial Research Master Plans,
the project would also provide research funds for identified
provincial priority research. Finally, the project would
provide considerable training to upgrade research scientists'
skills and efficiency, and allow their movement into priority
areas for research, and technical assistance to help with
project implementation.
Benefits       The project would upgrade and strengthen the provincial
and Risks:     research effort, improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
resources allocated to research, and build sustainable research
systems, sensitive to national and provincial priorities.
Strengthening of key research programs, and closer research-
extension-farmer linkages should translate into technology to
help farmers increase production and raise their incomes. Main



- iv -
risks are problems with institutional changes, inadequate
funding and farmers possibly not adopting research
recommendations. Technical assistance and training would
facilitate the institutional changes. Improved research
planning, resource allocation, monitoring and evaluation would
strengthen research agencies' funding requests. Formulating
research programs with a farming systems perspective and
attention to close research-extension-farmer linkages should
ensure research program relevance, and farmer responsiveness.
Estimated Costs:
Local       Foreign        Total
-- (US$ million) --------
PARC                                       4.5            5.3         9.8
Punjab                                     6.2            8.8        15.0
Sind                                       4.1            7.4        11.5
Baluchistan                                1.6            4.2         5.8
North West Frontier                        2.0            5.0         7.0
Federal Support to Provinces               5.4            5.5        10.9
Ag. University Faisalabad                  0.7            2.5         3.2
Sind Ag. University                        0.3          , 2.8         3.1
Total Baseline Costs                   24.8          41.5         66.3
Physical Contingencies                     0.8            3.6         4.4
Price Contingencies                        4..5         _6.7         11.2
Total Pr2ject Cost                     3..1Q          5.8         819/a
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign        Total
-------- (US$ million) --------
GOP                                       11.0            -          11.0
GOPunjab                                   5.4            -           5.4
GOSind                                     4.3            -           4.3
GOBaluchistan                              1.8            -           1.8
GONWFP                                     2.1            -           2.1
IDA                                        5.5           51.8        57.3
Total                                  30.1           51.8        81.9



Estimated Disbursements:
_  Fiscal Year
91      92       93       94       95       96       97       98
------------------ (US$ million) ----------------------------
Annual           4.0      3.0      7.0    11.0    12.0        9.0      7.0     4.3
Cumulative       4.0      7.0    14.0    25.0    37.0    46.0    53.0    57.3
/a Includes US$6.9 million taxes and duties.



i                                 ~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
|                       ~~~~~~~I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
I* _
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested International
Development Associat..on (IDA) assistance to further develop and strengthen its
agricultural research services.  The project is the second phase of an IDA
assistance program, and is mainly directed towards upgrading provincial
research services.  The project would reorgasuise provincial research
institutions to provide more autonomy and greater administrative flexibility
in staff recruitment, promotion and financial management, and establish
mechanisms for planning, programming, monitoring, and evaluating research. It
would support high priority research programs, provide staff training and
technical assistance, and improve research/extension linkages. The provincial
Departments of Agriculture and Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC)
would implement the project which, by improving research relevancy and
quality, would eventually increase farmer productivity and incomes throughout
Pakistan.
1.02      GOP identified and prepared the project with the assistance of the
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)/IBRD Cooperative Program and the
International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR).  The project
reflects national needs and priorities as ou.tlined in the Seventh Five-Year
Plan (FY89-FY93).  This report is based on GOP's feasibility report
(Agricul.itral Research II Project, No. 165/87 CP-PAK 41, December 1987), and
the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Pakistan during October
1988, and follow-up missions in February and May, 1989.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.03      Structure.  Pakistan covers an area of some 80 million ha of mainly
arid or semi-arid land of which about 39X or 31.0 million ha is suitable for
agricultural and forestry uses. Approximately 20.0 million ha are cultivated
(16.2 million ha being irrigated), 3.0 million ha are exploitable forest, and
8.0 million ha are rangelands. In about 951 of the country the mean annual
rainfall is less than 600 mm, and is concentrated in two seasons (the summer
monsoons which fall in July-August and winter rains which fall in
January-February). These two rain seasons have helped define Pakistan's two
crop seasons, karif (summer) and rabi (winter). Much of the central Indus
plain, the main agricultural producing region, receives less than 150 mm
annually, and hence agricultural production and development are heavily
dependent on irrigation supplies. The Indus Basin, which covers two-thirds of
the country, has the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world. While
951 of its command area (12.0 million ha) has been classified as having
moderate to excellent inherent capability for crop production, it is being
increasingly affected by waterlogging and salinity. Some 221 of the command
area now has a water table less than 2.0 m from the surface.



-2-
1.04      Agriculture is still the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It
accounts for 22% of GDP, employs 52% of the labor force, and contributes 55%
of export earnings. Arable crops provide 65% of agricultural GDP, livestock
31%, and fishing and forestry 4%. The major crops are wheat, cotton, rice and
sugarcane which cover 62% of the annual sown area.  Irrigated land produces
90% of total farm output.
1.05      Over 70% of the population lives in the rural areas.  There are 4
million family farms, with an average family size of six and an average farm
size of 4.7 ha. Despite the efforts under the land reform acts of 1959, 1972
and 1977 to redistribute productive assuts to the landless, farm distribution
is still characterized by inequity with 75% of the farm population owning 35%
of the area.  As this group's average farm size is 2.2 ba, many are
subsistence farmers.  Today 50% of farmers are owner operators, and 26% are
pure tenants; however, the size of the landless (wage labor) class is not
accurately known.
1.06      Performance.  During the Sixth Five Year Plan (FYP)(FY84-FY88),
agriculture grew at 3.8% annually against a plan target of 4.9% per year.
Pakistan, however, attained self-sufficiency in wheat production, and
increased its co!ton and rice exports, in particular, becoming a major
exporter of cotton and cotton products. Despite the large area of irrigation,
the sector is still quite vulnerable to climatic factors, and output in FYs
84, 86, and 87 was adversely affected by untimely rains and drought, as well
as pest attacks on cotton. Generally, major crop production met plan targets,
however, minor crop production has not. The sector is constrained by
structural and institutional weaknesses which contribute to its uneven
performance.
C. Development Objectives. Strategies and Issues
1.07      DeveloRment Objectives.  GOP's major agricultural sector objectives
are to: (a) maintain adequate food security to meet the basic food
requirements for the growing population; (b) diversify agricultural production
into minor crops (mainly fruits, vegetables and oilseeds) and livestock for
import substitution and export promotion; (c) generate employment
opportunities for the rapidly increasing on-farm rural households who largely
depend on livestock production and other farm-related activities; (d) assure
the participation of small farmers in agricultural development, and (e)
strengthen institutional support and provide incentives for regional
specialization.
1.08      Strategies.  Although it has been nearly a decade since the Revised
Action Plan for Irrigated Agriculture (RAP) and the National Agricultural
Policy (NAP) were issued, these reports' sector strategy recommendations
continue to guide the sector's development program.  The-main elements of the
strategy include: (a) raising crop procurement prices and keeping them in
line with international prices to maintain farmers' production incentives
while phasing out subsidies; (b) introducing quick impact investment programs
to improve the efficiency of existing assets such as rehabilitating existing
irrigation and drainage systems, upgrading the seeds industry, and
constructing farm-to-market roads; (c) increasing farm input availability;
(d) substantiallv increasing agricultural credit availability; (e) enhancing



-3-
the role of the private sector in supplying inputs and processing and
marketing commodities, and (f) improving cultural practices througl; better
research and extension services.
1.09      Issues.  Faced with a rapidly growing population (3.1% per annum),
and limited opportunities for increasing tha area of land under irrigated or
dryland agriculture, Pakistan must increase the productivity of existing
farmland to maintain its self-sufficiency in food crops, such as wheat and
maize, and meet the increasing demand for other agricultural commodities. As
well, Pakistan's agriculture is still characterized by low productivity and
yields throughout most of its subsectors. Weak agricultural support services,
institutional constraints, inefficient water management, poor agronomic
practices and pricing policies all constrain the growth of crop yields and
productivity.
1.10      Weak Agriculttsral SupRort Services and Institutions.  While GOP has
upgraded and strengthened federal research services during the 1980s,
provincial research services, whic'l service the majority of farmers, still
remain weak. In most crop production provincial research services are not
resolving the productivity problems which farmers face, particularly small
farmers (see para 1.12). Relevant research work and results are essential for
the efficient operation of extension services. Additionally, tertiary level
agricultural education institutions are weak, and in most areas unable to
fully train scientists in research methodology.
1.11      Inefficient Water Resource Management.  Irrigated agriculture in
Pakistan contributes 90% of agricultural value added. Hence, the management
of scarce water resources is vital to sustainable agricultural growth. Past
agricultural growth has been attributed to both acreage expansion and rises in
crop yields. Because of limited scope for further area expansion, future
sources of growth would be largely confined to productivity increases through,
among other things, efficient utilization of land and water resources. GOP
recognizes the need to reexamine the current formula for water allocation
among the four provinces and also among competing canal systems within a
province. The politics of water apportionment has so far prevented a more
rational water allocation, based on crop water requirements. Continuation of
the current water allocation would exacerbate the problems of waterlogging and
salinity, and overall water shortages. In dryland agriculture more research
is required on water harvesting and agronomic practices to improve crop water
availability and use.
1.12      Unegual Incote Distribution.  Land distribution in Pakistan is
highly skewed, with 75X of farmers having an average farm size of 2.2 ha and
the remaining 25% operating an average 11.6 ha. As a consequence, incomes are
similarly skewed, with a large proportion of small farmers operating at
subsistence levels. Additionally, many of them are tenant farmers. Their
access to institutional credit is much poorer than that of large farmers,
while government advisory services (research and extension) have been mainly
targeted away from them towareq the larger farmer, particularly in the
livestock subsector. The &vs-e-nment wishes to improve small farmer
productivity and incomes by orienting research, extension, credit, marketing
and small tubewell development toward them; encouraging d'versification into
higher value crops such as horticulture, inland fisheries, livestock and
village forestry production; constructing rural infrastructure (roads, power,



- 4
communications) and supplying basic services (potable water, sanitation,
health, education and training).
1.13      Insufficient Agricultural Diversification.  While during the last 25
years agriculture has grown at around 4.0% per annum, the main crops have
grown at a much faster rate, for example, cotton 5.7%; wheat 5.0%; and rice
4.4%. Thus minor crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries have grown at a
slower rate than the overall average. Since Pakistanis already consume a
reasonable annual amount of basic food grains per capita, the f"ture demand
for higher value commodities is expected to grow more rapidly as incomes and
dietary standards improve. To meet this demane. and to increase farmer
incomes, GOP has emphasized the diversification of farmer production into
higher value horticulture and livestock products.  GOP also hopes to develop
export markets in these products, thus increasing the range of export crops
and lessening the country's dependence on cotton and rice export returns, and
to substitute local oilseed production for imports.  Although GOP has pursued
this cbjective in the Sixth FYP, it has achieved little success so far, mainly
because the public and private sectors have not undertaken the necessary
investment in infrastructure and research and extension (production,
harvesting, storage, transport and marketing processes).
1.14      Degradation of Agricultural Resource Base.  Increasing population
densities and intens:ty of land use is causing considerable degradation of
Pakistan's agricult,ir.l resource base from the watersheds and rangelands of
the north to the plains and coastline of the center and south. Excessive
grazing and timber cutting in the higher areas is causing heavy soil erosion
which is silting up the irrigation dams and service systems. Overwatering and
poor drainage on the plains is increasing soil salinity and waterlogging, and
contributing, along with fertilizers and pesticides, to the pollution of water
resources, land, and food production. While strong institutions are required
to correct this situation, data collection and research will also be
essential, particularly in watershed and rangeland rehabilitation, saline
agriculture, soil/water/crop relationships, integrated pest management and
other areas.
1.15      Agricultural Pricing Policies.  While GOP has done much to bring its
agricultural pricing policies into line with world market trends, further
policy changes could lead to a m^re optimum use of resources and higher
productivity. Except for sugar. aver recent years GOP has generally
maintained producer prices for its major agricultural commodities (wheat,
rice, cotton) at or near world market levels. It has removed subsidies from
some inputs (Llitrogenous fertilizer, 1esticides, weedicides), and is gradually
phasing out others (phosphatic and potasic fertilizers, irrigation water
charges). Nevertheless, GOP is maintaining wholesale wheat prices at below
storage cost and edible oil p.ices at below processing cost. This, plus
sugarcane prices considerably above world market levels, results in large GOP
expenditures on subsidies for wheat storage and edible oil processing (plus
remaining subsidies on fertilizers and irrigation water supplies), an
inefficient, high-cost sugar industry, inhibiting of the private sector from
entering the cereal storage market, and small overall welfare benefits.



I5-
BRank's Agricultural Strategy
1.16      The Bank agrees with and has been supportive of GOP's agricultural
objectives and strategies. The Bank has been an active partner with GOP in
formulating the sector's strategy starting with the first Indus Basin Study in
the 1960s followed by an agricultural sector review and RAP in the 1970s.
Over the years, the Bank has witnessed the transformation of the agricultural
sector from a small beginning to one which generates domestic food grain
requirements and exportable surpluses in rice and cotton. Notwithstanding the
achievements of the past, the agricultural sector now faces critical
productivity constraints, such as weak service institutions (research and
extension), limited additional irrigation water supplies and poor agronomic
practices, which limit its ability to evolve as a dynamic and competitive
sector.  The Bank recognizes that future agricultural growth would largely
come from productivity enhancing measures and the improved utilization of
existing irrigation systems. Hence, the Bank's lending program is formulated
to assist GOP develop a competitive agricultural sector. While GOP should
continue to allocate a major share of investment funds to improving irrigation
and drainage efficiency, it must do more to strengthen public sector
institutions providing support to agriculture, particularly in research,
extension and education. Improved agricultural research and extension
services would play a critical part in increasing the sector's productivity
through providing new, improved crop varieties, better agronomic practices,
more efficient crop water use and drainage practices, and sustainable
agricultural systems which would not degrade Pakistan's agricultural
resources. GOP also should continue to align agricultural input/output prices
with world market prices, reduce subsidies, direct its investments towards
small farmers, and do more to protect, manage, and conserve its agricultural
resources. This project would be a key component in the Bank's lending
program to support GOP's agricultural developme-it strategy.
D. Bank Group Lendinz
1.17      Agricultural Projects.  Over the last decade Bank Group lending
operations have been on three broad fronts, the water subsector, other
agriculture, and policy-based projects. To improve the efficiet.cy of GOP's
large investment in irrigation inf_astructure, water subsector projects have
concentrated on drainage, irrigation structure rehabilitation, and water
management programs. ether agriculture projects have aimed at increasing
productivity through strengthening support institutions and services,
improving farming practices, increasing input supplies, and environmental
protection. The two largest programs in these areas are a series of one
agricultural research project plus four agricultural extension and adaptive
research projects, and six agricultural credit projects. Policy-based
operations have pursued a more optimal resource allocation in agriculture
through the cligning of input/output prices with world market prices, and the
reducing of subsidies on pesticides, fertilizers, and water charges. Future
Bank lending would continue to be directed at improving the productivity of
agriculture resource use, with investments to improve the performance of
installed irrigation systems, mitigate waterlogging and salinity, expand
credit services, improve marketing and distribution of food grains ard protect
the agricultural environment. Policy dialogue would continue with investments
aimed at improving pricing policies. A renewed emphasis, however, would be



placed on investments in research and extension services to break the
productivity constraints of inefficient resource use, low yields and
degenerating resources which many farmers face.
1.18      Research and Extension Projects.  Bank Group lending to strengthen
agricultural advisory services began in the late 1970's with two agricultural
extension and adaptive research projects (Crs. 813 and 922-PAR), one each in
Punjab and Sind Provinces. Simul aneously the Bank undertook the Agricultural
Research Subsector Review (WB No. 2961-PAK, May 1980), which was the basis for
the Agricultural Research I Project (ARP I) (Cr. 1158-PAK), the first phase of
the Bank Group's assistance to upgrade Pakistan's agricultural research. The
initial extension projects were slow to start-up, but as the recent Project
Performance Atudit Report (No. 7288, June 23, 1988) concludes, the projects
successfully: (a) introduced some discipline into the management of extension
services, for example, ensuring that extension staff made regular farm -;isits;
and (b) provided advice to small and medium sized farmers as well as to large
farmers on whom extension staff had concentrated in the past. The projects,
however, did contain some conceptual flaws, of which the most important with
ramifications for agricultural research was: intensive farmer coverage but
too few technical messages to transmit. This highlights the need for research
results relevant to farmer's problems. The proposed project is designed to
improve research planning to ensure research programs are directed at farmers'
priority productivity problems, and strengthen research/extension linkages to
make certain proven research results are transmitted to farmers.
1.19      ARP I (USS 40.0 million), which became effective in 1982 and ended
in December 1987, was primarily directed at strengthening federal research
capabilities, that is, the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) and
its institutes, to enable PARC to provide research leadership, and to
coordinate and guide research throughout Pakistan. It emphasized
strengthening PARC through increas3d autonomy of operat'cn and improved
permanent staff benefits to attract and retain qualified scientists, and it
fostered an increased coordina-ion role for PARC in federally supported
research programs, including crop varietal yield trials and ongoing national
cooordinated research programs. The project achieved much in institutional,
civil works, and research program development (see Project Completion Report,
June, 1989). Major institutional developments include: (a) enabling PARC to
become fully autonomous witn its own Board of Governors within the Ministry of
Food, Agriculture, and Cooperatives (MINFAC), and introducing a satisfactory
scheme of service for PARC officers; (b) the overseas training of some 97
Ph.D. and 18 M.Sc. postgraduate students; and (c) establishing Agricultural
Economic Research Units (AERUs) at NARC and the provinces which are helping to
introduce economics, and a farming systems perspective, into research planning
and programming. However, this is a large, difficult task which will require
considerable additional resources and efforts to complete. In civil works,
the project built and equipped a considerable amount of modern offices
(including PARC's headquarters building), laboratories and staff housing for
PARC and NARC, plus a smaller amount for the provincial institutes and
agricultural universities. PARC and its institutes have also expanded their
work programs, and have already undertaken some good research and obtained
useful results, particularly in combatting plant diseases (wheat, rice, maize,
gram and sunflowers), and in plant introduction (wheat and fodders). PARC has
introduced a national agricultural research library and reference service for
researchers, and initiated a laboratory equipment maintenance and repair unit



to centrally service equipment from federal and provincial institutes. A
contract research scheme, while slow in starting, enabled some provincial
researchers to undertake good work in several areas, including buffalo
reproducticn, integrated control of major oilseed pests, survey and use of
medicinal plants, and control of soil-borne diseases. However, ARP I was less
effective in strengthening PARC's overall coordinating role in agricultural
research, mainly because it did not provide or institute suitable procedures
and mechanisms for continuous research prioritizing, planning, and
programming. This, plus formal monitoring and evaluation of research
programs, should now be introduced at both the federal and provincial levels
in this second phase development. Insufficient and untimely funding on
occasions constrained ARP I implementation. Improved research long and short-
term planning, which the proposed project will introduce, would allow research
administrators to press more effectively for adequate, timely funding.
II. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH IN PAKISTAN
A. Research Institutions and Organization
2.01      Overview.  The agricultural research system in Pakistan is complex.
While the federal government is responsible for research, high-level manpower
training, and coordination, the Constitution delegates responsibility for
agriculture to the provinces. As a result, the provinces have controlled most
applied or adaptive research, while the federal government has retained
responsibility for basic and long-term research (including most forestry
research). Federal organizations have also initiated high priority research
which the provinces have neglected. The position is further complicated
because GOP has distributed national responsibility for research among several
ministries and semi-autonomous institutions, such as MINFAC, Ministry of Water
and Power, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Education, the Atomic Energy
Commission (AEC) and others. In total there are 24 research establishments
operating at the federal level, while in the provinces government agencies
operate in excess of 70 research establishments. Three major agricultural
universities also undertake research.
2.02      In 1984 (latest year complete figures are available), a total of
3,431 scientists were involved in agricultural research and related
activities. Table 2.1 indicates the location of these scientists, and their
academic qualifications.



- 8 -
Table 2.1: SCIENTISTS' LOCATION, NUMBER, AND QUALIFICATIONS
(at June 30, 1984)
Oualifications
Location            Scientists               hD       MSc/NPhil         BSc
----------------------- (No.) -----------------------
Punjab                  866                 25           521           320
Sind                    324                 12           tl             81
NWFP                    273                  3           ±;            149
Baluchistan             103                  3            38            62
Subtotal           1,566                 43            911           612
Federal               1,176               105            793           278
Universities            689                151           477            61
Subtotal           1,865                256          1,270           339
Total               3,431               299          2,181           951
Source:  Agricultural Research Manpower Survey, PARC, Islamabad, 1985.
2.03      Since 1984, the number of scientists is estimated to have increased
considerably to around 4,500, of whom some 1,900 are working in the provincial
research services, 1,800 in the federal services, and 800 in universities.
However, not all of these scientists are involved full time in research. Many
are involved in nursery stock or seed production, and mo.st livestock
scientists deal with disease diagnosis, vaccine production, or other farmer
services.
2.04      Federal Research Institutions:  Pakistan Agricultural Research
Council.  PARC is the major federal agricultural research organization.  Its
functions broadly include promoting and coordinating agricultural research in
line with Pakistan's economic and social development policies, initiating and
conducting basic research, and developing new research in priority areas
currently neglected. PARC is an autonomous body within MINFAC, and works
closely with the provincial Agricultural Departments, provincial Agricultural
Research Institutes (ARIs), and Agricultural Universities. It is directed by
a Board of Governors, which is headed by the Minister of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives, and selected from federal and provincial research organizations
and farmers. An Executive Board, consisting of a chairman and five full- tme
members representing crops, natural resources, animal sciences, social
services, and finance controls PARC's day-to-day operations.
2.05      PARC Institutes.  PARC operates eight institutes, and employs 568
scientists, of whom 94 have PhD degrees (May, 1989). NARC, situated on 560 ha
just outside Islamabad, is PARC's newest (established 1984) and largest
institute, and main operational arm.  Its staff undertake a wide range of crop
and livestock research, with emphasis on plant introduction and breeding,



plant protection, agricultural machinery development, economics, and livestock
feeding and crossbreeding.
2.06      National Coordinated Research Programs.  Under its mandate to
promote, aid _nd coordinate agricultural research, PARC currently funds some
30 National Coordinated Research Programs (NCRPs), covering crop production.
land and water resources, forestry and environment, and animal health and
production. Several of the larger NCRPs have substantially contributed tc
increasing production and/or efficiency in their areas, and have also
interacted well with the international research institutes (particularly
CIMMYT and IRRI under the wheat and rice programs). NCRPs usually expand or
add to the basic research programs the pLovinces and universities are
undertaking. While some NCRPs do not meet the basic criteria for coordinated
programs (too small or narrowly focussed, or do not cover complementary,
coordinated work), PARC is currently reviewing these programs, and will either
redesign ,r discard them.
2.07      Other Federal Agricultural Research Institutions.  Other important
institutions undertakirg agricultural research at the federal level include:
the Pakistan Central Cc*_ton Committee (PCCC), which is responsible for
research and development in cotton growing, manufacturing and marketing; AEC
with three institutes studying the application of nuclear techniques to
agriculture and biological research; Pakistan Forestry Institute (PFI), which
is responsible for forestry research throughout Pakistan; Water and Power
Authority (WAPDA) which does research on waterlogging and salinity, and the
Ministry of Science and Technology which undertakes research on irrigated
agriculture through the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources
(PCRWR).
2.08      Provincial Researc'a Institutes.' All the provinces have their own
agricultural research services covering crops, livestock, forestry, and in
some instances, fisheries. These services are generally administered within
separate provincial line departments, which usually conduct research in
isolation from each other. In North West Frontier province (NWFP) the
Agricultural University is responsible for crop and livestock research. All
provinces place major emphasis on crop research, and each has an apex
agricultural (that is, crop) research institute (ARI) with a supporting
network of substations and experimental farms. Some have commodity-oriented
institutes. While several research institutes employ large numbers of staff,
they have few experienced researchers with PhD qualifications, or trained
research leaders.
2.09      Of the four provinces, Punjab has by far the largest and best
trained agricultural research staff. The main crop research institutes2 are
Ayub Agricultural Research Institute (AARI), Punjab; ARI Tandojam, Sind; ARI
Sariab, Baluchistan; and ARI Tarnab, NWFP.  Each ARI is headed by a
'/   See Annex 2, Appendix 4 for more detail concerning Provincial Research
Institutes.
2/   Total scientific staff are AARI Faisalabad 820, including 25 PhDs (Oct.
1988); ARI Tandojam 196, including 2 PhDs (1984); ARI Sariab 43, including
1 PhD (Oct. 1988); and ARI Tarnab 220, including 9 PhDs (Oct. 1988).



- 10 -
Director-General of Agricultural Research (DGAR) who reports to the Secretary
of Agriculture. Separate livestock research institutes are headed by
Director-Generals of Livestock Research who report to the Secretary of
Agriculture (Sind) or to the Secretary of Livestock (Punjab and Baluchistan).
Livestock research is usually limited, with most of these staff producing
vaccine or supplying farmers' veterinary services. Recently, in NWFP, with
assistance from the USAID-financed Transformation and Integration of
Provincial Agricultural Network Project (TIPAN), the Government of NWFP
(GONWFP) transferred responsibility for crop and livestock research from the
Department of Agriculture to the Agricultural University, Peshawar (AUP).
This is an evolving situation and will take several years yet to complete.
2.10      Agricultural Universities.  Punjab, Sind and NWFP have agricultural
universities. While the University Grants Commission (a federal body) funds
the universities, the provincial governments administer them (Agricultural
Department in Punjab and NWFP, Education Department in Sind). As AUP is now
responsible for crop and livestock research in NWFP, it also receives
provincial funds for agricultural research. The Agricultural University,
Faisalabad, in Punjab (AUF) and the Sind Agricultural University at Tandojam
(SAU) do not receive provincial funds, and their research programs are limited
to MSc and PhD thesis preparation.
2.11      International Sunnort for Agricultural Research.  Several other
donors are also supporting agricultural research in Pakistan. Besides IDA,
USAID is the other major donor, and is currently financing two projects, that
is, Management of Agricultural Research and Technology Project (MART) and
TIPAN. MART (US$30 million) is assisting to improve federal research
management and administration and the transfer of research results to
farmers. TIPAN (US$40 million, see para 2.09) is supporting the upgrading of
AUP, including the integrating of agricultural teaching, research and outreach
activities, and the transfer of responsibility for crops and livestock
research frum NWFP Agricultural Department to the University. USAID has also
supported research (mainly PARC-sponsored contract research) with funds from
Public Law-480 foodstuff sales (US$14.5 million).
2.12      Other assistance includes the Canadian International Development
Agency's (CIDA) support to resear.:h in rainfed agriculture (US$11 million);
Italy's support (US$10 million) for introducing improved farming practices
into three districts in different areas of Pakistan; and the Swiss
Government's support of research in potato seed production. Additionally,
IRRI, CIMMYT, CIP and ICARDA have made available training facilities,
germplasm and the services of experts. The proposed project has been designed
to complement, and its activities to integrate with, those of other donors,
particularly MART and TIPAN projects.
B. Constraints to Research
2.13      Substantial inputs from GOP, with IDA and bilateral assistance, has
gone far to establish a viable federal agricultural research system,
particularly in terms of facilities, equipment, and in developing a cadre of
well-trained scientists. Nevertheless further development is needed in
research planning, management, coordination, monitoring, evaluation and
funding. At the provincial level, however, severe constraints exist to
undertaking efficient, effective research. The major constraints include:



- 11 -
(a)  ineffective planning, programming, monitoring, and evaluation of
research pertinent to farmers' problems;
(b)  insufficient training and research qualifications of many of its
scientists;
(c)  inadequate operating funds to conduct meaningful research;
(d)  rigidities of the research service schemes since they are tied into
provincial government civil service rules which reward seniority and
not merit, with concomitant low morale of scientific staff;
(e)  little on-farm research to determine the farming systems in
practice, and research to remedy productivity problems; and
(f)  ineffective linkages with the ex;tension services for effective
transmission of demonstrated improved technology to farmers.
Annex 2 and the following sections discuss these constraints in more detail.
C. Policy Guidance. Planning. and Coordination
2.14      Determining a national agricultural research program3 is at least a
three stage sequential process, including: (a) determining broad research
priorities at the national and provincial levels, and allocating resources to
these; (b) at the research institute level, within the broad priority
allocations determining the sub-allocations to high priority technical
research thrusts, and developing long-range plans (10-15 years) involving
manpower development and additional required resources; and (c) at the
research station or program level deciding the most urgent and relevant
experiments and studies to be done in the next year or two with available
manpower and financial resources.
2.15      At the federal level, while several ministries and agencies are
responsible for policy guidance and budget control of agricultural research
(para 2.01), MINFAC, through its Agricultural Research Division (ARD) and
PARC, is the main body responsible to develop overall research planning and
coordination. To translate government development policies into research
topics, and develop research planning and coordination, PARC has produced a
National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP, 1986). However, while NARP
identifies broad goals and objectives for future research and lists many areas
for research (including horticulture, livestock, soil science, integrated pest
management and social science to support the Seventh FYP development
objectives), it does not quantify the available resources to be allocated to
the various research thrusts, nor show the long-term plans to achieve research
objectives. Thus, at the national and provincial levels, there still needs to
be a ranking and allocation of resources between research priorities, as well
as developing, at the institute level, long-term research plans.
2.16      PARC's Board of Governors, with its associated Policy Advisory and
Agro-Business Relations committees, and with assistance from PARC's Planning
Directorate in analyzing ongoing needs and opportunities in agriculture, is
the appropriate body to identify b:oad national research thrusts and allocate
available resources between them. In the absence of unified federal and
provincial research services, however, there can be no completely
3/   For more detail on reseach planning and programming, see Annex 2, para 29.



- 12 -
hierarchical, authoritative allocations, and "agreed guidelines" would be a
more appropriate target. The provinces, of course, would have their own
priorities to guide their provincial allocations for research, but would do
this within national guidelines. At the provincial level, however, suitable
bodies generally are not in place whtich can undertake this planning stage. As
well, coordination of research is minimal with the various departments
responsible for crop, livestock, forestry, and fishery research develoning
their programs in isolation from each other, and without considering the
integration of various activities on the farm. Punjab has tried to integrate
and coordinate its provincial research through a Provincial Research
Coordination Board, but has failed because the Board has no control )ver
funding, has tried to directly control every facet of the research process,
and is too large (67 members) to be effective. NWFP, in the merging of its
crop and livestock research under AUP, has recently established a University
Research Coordination Board, which should have the authority to successfully
delineate provincial research priorities and allocate resources between them.
2.17      At the research institute level, except for NARC (with assistance
from MART project), no institutes are undertaking long-term research planning.
All research programming is on a seasonal or yearly basis, and institutes use
a variety of procedures and criteria to select their programs. Few programs
are based on a farm..ng systems approach to discover farmers' productivity
constraints. This diversity of procedures and criteria leads to inconsistency
in the standards of research proposals, and research which is irrelevant to
the users of research results, that is, farmers.
2.18      Monitoring and Evaluation.  While there always has been a
considerable amount of informal monitoring and evaluation of research at
various levels in Pakistan, formal monitoring, and evaluation, has usually
been limited to donor-assisted projects.  As well, Punjab's Provincial
Research Coordination Board has also monitored and evaluated research, but,
for the reasons listed before (para 2.16), has been unable to generate
follow-up to this work. PARC and the provinces have now resolved, with
assistance from this project, to introduce formal monitoring and evaluation
into all agricultural research in Pakistan.
D. Research Management and Financine
2.19      Management.  The federal research institutions such as PARC, PCCC,
and AEC, have independent budgets, a reasonable independence in operations,
and freedom to hire and promote staff according to need and merit. The staff
have a scientific scheme of service focused primarily on the research task.
PARC also has direct responsibility for its budget and has been able to raise
operational and capital funding per scien-ist to acceptable levels. The
provincial research institutions are, in most cases, part of development
departments responsible for agriculture, livestock, forestry and fisheries,
and oriented primarily to development and production. The research
institutions operate under hierarchical, in-line control from the head of the
department, within departmental budgets, and with a scheme of service that
relates to hierarchical values of years of experience, number of staff
supervised, and resources controlled, rather than research capabilities and
performance. In contrast to PARC, the provincial system of management is too
rigid, does not reward staff or promote them on merit, and has led to the
development of a poor research environment.



-13 -
2.20      Financing.  In FY84, the last year for which figures are available,
the total investment in agricultural research was Rs786 million (US$60.5
million), equivalent to about 0.2X of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) or 0.8X of
agricultural GDP (AGDP).  While GOP has increased its agricultural research
investment from 0.5% of AGDP .-n FY81 to 0.81 of AGDP in FY84, it is still well
below the Bank suggested rate of 1X of AGDP.  Additionally, Pakistan's
expenditures per research scientist are low when compared to the need for
operational expenditures, and those of other developing countries.  In terms
of operational funding for materials, labor, support staff, office space and
transport, research scientists require a certain minimum to allow the
efficient use of their time and research creativity.  In many of Pakistan's
research institutes, operational funding levels have fallen well below this
target.  Actual average operational funding level per research scientist in
FY84 was equivalent to about US$3,000 compared to an estimated basic
requirement of US$8,000.  Other developing countries are spending from
US$8,000 to US$20,000 per research scientist.4 Even when Pakistan's total
spending per research scientist (scientists salaries and operational
expenditures) is compared to that of 67 other developing countries, its
expenditure is amongst the bottom 10% (unpublished data, ISNAR, 1980).
Additional operating funds allocated to priority research would have a high
rate of return.
E.  Trainina and Research/Extension Linkages
2.21      Agriculture Universities.  The agriculture universities at
Faisalabad (AUF), Tandojam (SAU) and Peshawar provide undergraduate courses in
most aspects of agriculture (including animal sciences), and a wide range of
master degree courses.  There is no shortage of staff at the primary degree
level, and university capabilities for BSc training are in excess of
anticipated requirements. A shortage of staff with research experience, and
limited resources, largely restricts postgraduate teaching to master degree
courses. There is an urgent need to upgrade many of the university faculties
so that they can provide doctoral degree courses, particularly in social
sciences.
2.22      Research Scientist Oualifications.  The quality of research staff's
training is a crucial factor to undertaking efficient research. While over
601 of research staff in 1984 had post-graduate training to miasters levels
(see Table 2.1), a large number (near 301) had only a bachelor's degree with
no formal training in research methodology. More importantly, the number of
staff trained to PhD level was only some 300 (91), half of whom were in the
universities. Although ARP I, MART and TIPAN projects would help to nearly
double the number of PhDs, a large demand would still remain for staff with
PhD and post-doctoral training, particularly for staff who could lead and
guide research teams or groups.
2.23      kesearch/Extension Linkages.  A two-way flow of information between
researchers, extension staff, and farmers is important to ensure that farmers'
problems are communicated to researchers and tested, new technologies are
4/   See Annex 2 and Project Preparation Report, No. 165/87 CP-PAK 41, 18 Dec,
1987, Annex 2.



- 14 -
disseminated to farmers. The IDA-assisted extension projects (para 1.18) have
att.mpted to improve these linkages, mainly through promoting technical
committee meetings (which include research and extension staff), informal
contacts between the groups, and ad-hoc arrangements for cooperating in
undertaking some field trials. These arrangements have certainly improved
research/extension linkages, however, more needs to be done as on one hand
some pertinent research results are not getting to extension workers, and on
the otter, many researchers do not have a good understanding of farming
systems in the various agroecological zones, and the farmers' main
productivity problems.
2.24      AERUs established under ARP-I (para 1.19), the MART project, and
recently the two ongoing Bank-assisted extension projects (Crs. 1533 and
1762-PAK), have introduced, and are using and promoting, a methodology of
diagnostic studies using a farming systems perspective when identifying
on-farm research and extension programs. This approach should be expanded to
become the basis for formulating research in all agroecological zones, and by
using multidisciplinary teams of research and extension staff, it would
provide further opportunities and linkages for research and extension staff to
work together in identifying farmer constraints and formulating appropriate
research and extension programs.
F.  Restructuring Pakistan's Research Systems
2.25      The project would support Pakistan's development of a strong,
decentralized research system (viable organizations at both the federal and
provincial levels), which is necessary to adequately service Pakistan's large
area and varied agricultural geography. Pakistan needs strong provincial
systems capable of undertaking some applied and a wide range of adaptive
research to handle the varied local conditions, and a strong federal system,
capable of handling more basic research problems, to complement the provinces'
work and to coordinate Pakistan's overall agricultural research.
2.26      In guiding and coordinating overall research, PARC cannot, however,
make all the decisions needed in planning and selecting a national research
program, but must decentralize most of the decision making to the provinces
and to individual institutes and research teams. Central coordination must
come through PARC translating national development objectives into national
research priorities, with guidelines for expenditures on these priorities,
introducing standard procedures and formats for detailed research programming,
and ensuring that all groups monitor and evaluate their researchl.  The
provinces must identify provincial research priorities (taking account of
national priorities) and allocate resources between them, while individual
research institutes and research teams must identify the detailed long-term
and annual research programs.
2.27      To strengthen the provincial research services,  the 1988 Report of
the National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) has recommended that the
provincial research institutes be reorganized, giving them more autonomy in
staff recruitment and promotion and in financial management, and the necessary
mechanisms for planning and resource allocation. NCA suggested two
reorganization alternatives, namely: merging the provincial agricultural
research institutes with the agricultural universities; or establishing
semi-autonomous bodies along the lines of AEC or PARC. While GONWFP is



- 15 -
already merging its crops and livestock research institutes with AUP, Sind has
decided on the second alternative, and Punjab and Baluchistan have opted for a
third route, that is, establishing provincial agricultural research boards
which would have control over research resource allocation. For the most
efficient use of research resources, the ultimate goal should be the merger of
provincial research institutes with the agricultural universities. However,
establishing semi-autonomous research organizations, or research boards with
control over research resource allocation, can be considered steps on the way
to meeting this goal.
2.28      While ARP-I helped greatly to establish a viable federal research
system, this project concentrates on strengthening the provincial research
services. This, however, could take considerable time (10-15 years), and
could require future IDA assistance, particularly to complete and consolidate
institutional changes. Subject to GOP's plans, the next IDA intervention
could be in some three years to assist in financing the additional research
resources (training, vehicles, equipment, infrastructure) that the provincial
research master planning would identify (see paras 3.10 & 3.23).
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.29      The project forms an integral part of the Bank Group's agricultural
sector development strategy, would expand the ongoing program of assistance to
agricultural research and extensior., and through this support investments in
irrigation rehabilitation, drainage, and agricultural resource protection and
management. It focuses on improving provincial research planning,
administration, and execution and, together with ARP I and future assistance
to research, is part of a long-term program to substantially improve
agricultural research throughout Pakistan. The strengthening of research and
extension is pivotal to improving agricultural productivity, output, and
income, expanding diversification, and increasing export earnings and import
substitution. IDA's involvement in the project will help ensure that GOP's
program to improve overall research capabilities moves ahead as quickly as
possible, provincial research administrations are reorganized, and a high-
priority research program emerges which will support GOT's investment in
agricultural extension. USAID, the only other donor likely to s-ipport this
sized program, is already assisting two large research projects (which the
proposed project would complement), and is unlikely to finance another in the
near future.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The project's main objecttves are to:
(a) improve and strengthen research capabilities in the provinces;
(b) consolidate and complement the advances achieved under ARP I at the
federal level, that is, with PARC and NARC;



- 16 -
(c) support high priority research programs at the federal and
provincial levels; and
(d) improve and strengthen research/extension linkages.
B. Summary Description
3.02      The project has three main thrusts:  assistance for the provinces to
reorganize their research systems and improve research planning, resource
allocation, monitoring and evaluation; assistance for identified priority
research programs which would support the Seventh FYE development objectives;
and funds to support provincial priority research identified during the
preparation of Provincial Research Master Plans (PRMPs). The project would
also continue the upgrading of federal research systems commenced under ARP-I
through strengthening federal. research's planning, monitoring and evaluation,
and its capability to undertake priority research which would complement
provincial research. The project would expend some 86X of funds on provincial
research (601 going directly through the provincial government), and 141 on
federal research. It would include the following components:
Strengthening Provincial Research
(a) strengthening provincial research management and planning by:
(i) establishing new agricultural research boards in Punjab and
Baluchistan, and a semi-autonomous provincial research organization
in Sind (including secretariats and units for research planning,
monitoring and evaluation); (ii) preparing PRMPs for Punjab, Sind,
Baluchistan and NWFP; (iii) undertaking diagnostic studies of the
main agro-ecological zones to identify farmers' principal
productivity problems, and the needed research to solve them, and
(iv) providing additional equipment, operating funds, training, and
technical assistance;
(b)  developing provincial research programs and facilities by:
(i) upgrading and expanding research programs in horticulture,
livestock and soil science, and establishing research programs in
integrated pest management (IPM) through additional staff, minor
civil works, equipment, incremental operating funds, training and
technical assistance; and (ii) providing funds to support priority
research identified in PRMPs;
(c)  initiating or expanding through equipment, operating funds and
technical assistance:  (i) national/provincial coordinated research
programs in dairy ^attle cross-breeding, buffalo breeding, nutrition
and health, soil physics and soil fertility/soil chemistry; and
(ii) collaborative research programs with international institutes;
(d) expanding AERUs in Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP, and
establishing an AERU in Azad Jammu Kashmir through civil works,
additional staff, equipment, operating funds, training and technical
assistance;



-17 -
(e)  expanding research facilities in Pakistan's high northern areas at
Jaglot (Gilgit district) and at Kaghan in NWPP through civil works,
staff, equipment and operating funds;
(f)  developing post-graduate teaching and training in social sciences at
the agricultural universities of Punjab and Sind; and
(g) conducting a mid-term review of project progress.
Strengthening Federal Research
(a) strengthening PARC's Social Science Division and Planning
Directorate, and establishing units for economic analysis of
research, monitoring and evaluation to improve PARC's capabilities
to define national research priorities and set the overall
parameters within which the provinces plan their research
(additional staff, equipment, operating funds, training and
rechnical assistance);
(b)  upgrading and expanding programs and facilities at NARC for more
basic research in horticulture, livestock, soil science and social
sciences, and establishing a research program in IPM (through
similar support as to provinces) to enable NARC more fully
complement provincial research programs, plus providing incremental
research funds co assist NARC implement its long-term research plan;
(c)  constructing at NARC a new crop sciences office block, a community
center, and about 5 km of link road from the livestock research
station to the main farm road.
C. Detailed Proiect Features
Reorganization and Strengthening of Research Administration and Management
(US$9.1 million)'
3.03      Provincial Research Reorganization.  Sind would reorganize its crop,
livestock and fisheries research activities to be administered as a whole, and
to provide for: (a) autonomy in staff recruiting; (b) promotion of
professional staff based on objective criteria of merit and research
achievement; (c) financial management along administrative lines followed by
universities and other autonomous bodies in Pakistan; (d) collegiate style of
management; and (e) planning, programming, resource allocation, monitoring,
and evaluation of research.  It would establish a semi-autonomous research
organization, to be called the Sind Agricultural Research Organization (SARO),
merging the research activities of the Sind Department of Agriculture (crops,
livestock and fisheries) by June 30, 1991. Annex 2 (Appendix 1) suggests a
structure for such a provincial research organization similar to that of PARC
and other semi-autonomous bodies in Pakistan. An assurance was obtained from
Sind that it would establish SARO by June 30. 1991.
a/   Base cost estimates, and include training and technical assistance.



- 18 -
3.04      As a first step in a longer reorganization program, Punjab and
Baluchistan would reorganize their agricultural research activities, providing
for: (a) improved staff recruiting and management; (b) promotion of
professional staff based on objective criteria of merit and research
achievement; and (c) planning, programming, resource allocation, monitoring,
and evaluation of research. Punjab and Bal-uchistan would change existing
Public Service operating regulations for agricultural research staff to:
(a) improve the recruit4.ng of research staff with regard to speed of
appointment, and weightage given to research experience and technical ability
in selecting applicants (b) increase the opportunities for promotion within a
researcher's area of expertise by increasing the number of higher research
positions within different specialties, and introducing floating posts awarded
on merit; and (c) give more weightage to merit and research achievement in
promotion of staff. Objective criteria would be introduced to measure merit
and research achievement. Outstanding merit could be recognized by promotion
to a higher position or by more than usual annual salary increments. To allow
an integrated approach to research planning and resource allocation, the two
provinces would establish Agricultural Research Boards', that is, Punjab
Agricultural Research Board (PARB) and Baluchistan Agricultural Research Board
(BARB), chaired by the provinces' Planning and Development Department. The
B3oards would have limited membership including the Secretaries of Agriculture,
Livestock, Forestry, Irrigation and Finance, Vice-Chancellor of the
Agiicultural University, Directors General of Research (Agriculture and
Livestock) and Extension, and the Chief of PARC's Planning Directorate. the
Boards would be responsible for: (a) identifying provincial research
priorities and broad thrusts (within national guidelines), and establishing
guidelines for allocating research funds to these priorities; (b) overall
productior and annually updating of PRMPs; (c) monitoring and evaluating
provincial research; and (d) monitoring and overall coordination of the
provinces' project implementation. The provincial Finance Departments would
directly fund the Research Boards ane all project funds would flow through the
Boards.  Annex 2 (Appendix 5) suggests TORs for the Boards.  The project would
provide an office block to accommodate PARB in Lahore. Assurances were
obtalnad from Punjab and Baluchistan that they would by June 30. 1'991:
Mi) change existing Public Service regulations to imRrove agricultural
research staff recruitment and provide for promotion of professional research
staff to be based on merit and research achievement as measured by objective
criteria: and (ii) establish the Agricultural Research Boards.
3.05      Provincial Planning. Programming. Honitoring and Evaluation.  The
project wculd strengthen research planning, programming, monitoring and
evaluation at the provinci.al and federal levels. In each province the projeLt
would provide small management support units (MSU) (two to six professional
staff) to advise on and assist with research planning, resource allocation,
programming, monitoring and internal evaluation. In Sind the unit would be
initially attached to DGAR, ARI, Tandojam. Following SARO's establishment,
the unit would become its secretariat. ln NWFP the unit would be attached to
the office of AUP's Director of Research, and would also serve as a
secretariat for AUP's Research Coordination Board.
6/   Punjab would reconstitute its existing Provincial Research Crordination
Board, while Baluchistan would establish a new entity.



- 19 -
3.06      Punjab would have separate MSUs for its Research Board and for the
Director Generals of Agricultur-1 and Livestock Research. The Research
Board's MSU would function as its Secretariat and would have wider functions
than the other two MSUs (see para 4.03). Baluchistan wculd establish an MSU
to serve as its Research Board's Secretariat. To establish and operate MSUs,
the project would provide funds for hiring incremental staff; trairing to
Masters degree level in planning, programming, monitoring, and evaluation; and
for computers, furniture and technical assistance. Annex 9 details the
staffing of all MSUs.
3.07      Assurances were obtained from GOProvinces that by December 31. 1990:
(a) Sind would establish an MSU initially to be attached to the office of DGAR
ARI Tandojam. and following SARO establishment, to become its secretariat:
(b) NWFP would establish MSU attached to the office of AUP's Director of
Research. which would also serve as a secretariat for A'JP's Research
Coordination Board: (c) Punjab would establish three separate MSUs to service
PARB. and the Director Generals of Agricultural and Livestock Research. and
(d) Baluchistan would establish an MSU to service BARB.
3.08      Federal Planning. Programming. Monitoring and Evaluation.  At the
federal level PARC would amalgamate and reorganize its present Planning
Directorate and Monitoring and Evaluation Cell into an expanded and
strengthened Planning Directorate. The Directorate would have four functions,
that is, planning, project implementation, monitoring and evaluation, and
inventory (see Chart I). Separate units within the Directorate would be
responsible for each function. While three of the units are already
established, the Inventory Unit would be a new unit, responsible to develop
and maintain a data base on all agricultural research personnel in the
country, and total resource allocation to research. This would be essential
information for long-term planning and PARC's coordination of national
agricultural research. The Planning Unit, among other things, would assist in
preparing and updating a National Master Agricultural Research Plan (NMARP).
Annex 2 (paras 49-51) details the responsibilities of the four units.
3.09      To enable the proposed new Planning Directorate undertake its
expanded functions, the project would provide additional professional and
support staff, computers, office furniture, vehicles, training, and technical
assistance. Annex 2 lists terms of reference (TORs) for the technical
assistance. An assurance was obtained from GOP that PARC would establish its
new Planning Directorate by December 31. 1990.
3.10      Provincial Research Master Plans.  Punjab, Sind, Baluchistan and
NWFP would each prepare an overall PRMP based on the provincial government's
delineation of its crop, livestock, fishery and forestry priorities, and
consistent with national goals and priorities. Such PRMPs would determine
programs, manpower requirements, training needs, facilities, equipment,
operation and maintenance, and capital and recurrent budgets on a five year
basis, plus an additional indicative five years. Such planning would be an
ongoing process in AUP, SARO, PARB and BARBs' secretariats, and would be
updated annually. These plans would only include provincially-funded
research. Annex 2 (Appendix 2) gives TORs for preparation of PRMPs.
3.11      The provinces would complete their first PRMP in about two years (by
August 31, 1992).  The preparation of the first PRMPs would require



- 20 -
considerable time ard effort including establishing functional provincial
planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation. Accordingly, the project
would provide internationally and locally recruited technical assistance to
assist provincial staff prepare PRMPs. Annex 2 (Appendix 3) gives TORs for
this technical assistance.
3.12      Standardization.  Since the project would introduce new
methodologies at the national and provincial levels in planning, programming,
monitoring, evaluation, and the preparation of master research plans, the
techniques used should be standardized. PARC would coordinate such activities
by holding periodic meetings of concerned staff and consultants to ensure a
degree of uniformity in approach. These meetings should be at least once
every three months during ARP-II's first two years, and rotated around the
provinces. An assurance was obtained from GOP that during kRKP pRXearation
PARC and the nrovinces would meet Reriodically to ensure that standard
technigues are adopted in PRMF or eRaration. During ARP II's first two years
these meetings would be every three months.
3.13      Diagnostic Surveys.  To introduce a farming systems perspective into
research planning and programming, pry mote on-farm research, and improve
research/extension linkages, the project would support multidisciplinary teams
of research and extension staff undertaking diagnostic surveys and reviewing
the farming systems and practices within each province's various
agroecological zones. This work would include collection of secondary data,
then exploratory and verification surveys which would identify farmers'
productivity and socio-economic constraints, and assist scientists to develop
appropriate research programs to solve farmers' priority productivity
problems. Diagnostic surveys would be an important part of the research
planning process and formulating of research programs at the individual or
research team level. In Punjab, Sind, and Baluchistan the main crops research
institute (in NWFP, the agricultural university) would appoint a social
scientist as an adaptive research coordinator. The coordinator would arrange
for small multidisciplinary teams of technical scientists (including livestock
researchers) extension staff from the extension adaptive research farms and
social scientists (from AERUs) to undertake diagnostic surveys, ensure that
all agroecological zones or districts of a province were covered by diagnostic
studies, and the results of such studies published and disseminated. He would
also act as the contact point for this work between all groups involved. To
enable ARIs to undertake this work, the project would provide additional
professional and support staff, computers, office furniture, vehicles,
operating costs and technical assistance. Annex 8 gives further details
concerning this program.
Developing Priority Research Programs (Total US$43.4 million)7
3.14      The project would support and develop research programs in
horticulture, livestock, soil science, IPM, and social sciences. PARC and NCA
have identified these as priority research areas to support the national
development objectives of the Seventh FYP. On average project expenditures
for the programs would cover training (44X), incremental operating funds
7/   Excluding additional priority research identified in PRNPs, and other
research in NARC's long-term research plan (see paras 3.24-3.25).



- 21 -
(18%), equipment and vehicles (171), incremental salaries (10), technical
assistance (9X), and civil works (2X). Annexes 3 through 7 give program
details, Annex 12 lists participating research institutes and research
programs to be funded, while the Project Implementation Volume lists all
expenditures by individual research stations.
3.15      Horticulture (US$9.2 million).  Annex 3 details the horticultural
research programs that NARC and the four provinces would develop under the
project. NARC would become a center of excellence for horticultural research
by establishing facilities for biotechnology and post-harvest horticulture to
conduct basic research in maintaining fruits, vegetables and ornamentals in
good cordition between producers and the ultimate consumers. For greater
effectiveness, it would reorganize its horticultural research staff into three
sections (hor-iculture, biotechnology, and post-harvest physiology). PARC
would have the role of coordinating horticultural research throughout
Pakistan. It would establish a horticultural coordinator at PARC, who working
through key contact people in the provinces, would plan, organize and review
discussion groups, meetings and conferences. He would also collect data,
monitor horticultural research p.ograms and disseminate results and
information. Joint projects would be developed on the provincial and national
levels and regular conferences held to discuss programs and results in similar
research.
3.16      In Punjab, research programs would concentrate on citrus production,
while in Sind, research would focus mainly on tropical fruits (mango, banana,
chiku, papaya) and vegetables. NWFP would concentrate on deciduous fruit and
vegetables, and Baluchistan on vegetables and ornamentals. The project would
provide funds for AUF and SAU to undertake research on mango and citrus. As
the universities are still preparing their research programs, they would
submit their research proposals to IDA for review and approval before
proceeding with them. To support these programs, the project would provide
additional staff, equipment, vehicles, buildings, operating funds, technical
assistance and training. Annex 3 (Appendix 1) gives TORs for technical
assistance.
3.17      Livestock (US$8.8 million).  Livestock research programs would
concentrate on animal production and nutrition. The project would support two
livestock NCRPs, one for dairy cattle cross-breeding which PARC would
initiate, and the other an expansion of the ongoing program for buffalo.
However, before the first program goes ahead, government policies on dairy
cattle cross-breeding must be reviewed, and the project would provide funds
for an internationally recruited expert to undertake this review. The present
buffalo reproduction NCRP would be expanded to include research not only on
reproductive physiology but also on buffalo nutrition, breeding, and health.
Annex 4 describes individual livestock research programs in more detail, while
its Appendix 1 lists TORs for livestock technical assistance.
3.18      Soil Science (US$7.1 million).  The soil science component is
designed to strengthen existing provincial research in soil fertility/soil
chemistry, and add a new capability to do research on soil and crop
environment physics. The project would establish soil physics units as part
of the Soil Section of NARC and each province's major ARI (with two units in
Punjab), and initiate NCRPs in soil physics and soil fertility/soil chemistry.
It would also support the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources



-22-
(PCRWR) undertake research on water use efficiency at farm level. Annex 5
describes individual soil science programs in more detail, while its Appendix
2 contains TORs for soil science technical assistance.
3.19      Integrated Pest Management (US$8.1 million).  The project would
establish and support IPM research at the federal and provincial levels, and
would establish a coordinated program of planned research and training. It
would fund scientists at NARC and th_ provincial ARIs to develop IPM
strategies for various crops and areas, particularly for the cotton crop, the
largest user of pesticides. Because of the importance of coordinating the
work, PARC would appoint and provide a National IPM network coordinator and a
small coordinatUon staff trained in entomology and pathology . These would be
based at PARC headquarters and would be the nerwcrk's facilitators, plann'ers
and advisors.. While having no executive authority over the network, they
would provide leadership and administration for organizing workshops and
seminars, coordinating techrLical assistance and so on. Annex 6 describes the
component in detail.
3.20      Social Science (USSIO.2 million):  Agricultural Economic Research
Units. The project would continue to support and further strergthen the five
existing AERUs, and would establish a new AERU in Azad Jammu Kashmir. The
AERUs have added a much needed economic dimension to research in Pakistan.
They would assist in research planning, design of experiments, analysis of
experimenttal results, and the identification of farmers' problems amenable to
research. AERU staff would play a key role in the diagnostic studies of
agroecological zones (para 3.13), and would integrate their work with
technical scientists at every opportunity. While PARC presently finances and
supervises all AERUs, at ARP-II's completion the provinces would decide
whether to assimilate the AERU in their province into their provincial
research system. To strengthen AERUs and enable them to undertake their work
programs, the project would provide funds for staff, houses, vehicles,
computers, office equipment, training, and technical assistance. Annex 7
gives more details concerning the social science programs.
3.21      Social Science:  PARC's Social Science Division.  The project would
strengthen PARC's Social Science Division to improve its supervising of AERUs
and other social science research, and enable it to provide PARC's Planning
Directorate economic, social and political analyses of research investments.
The project would provide the Division additional staff, training, and
technical assistance, and it would be responsible for strengthening and
developing AERUs, including ensuring additional staff are recruited,
developing work programs, and obtaining technical assistance.
3.22      Social Science:  Agricultural Universities' Social Science
Faculties. To provide well-trained staff in agricultural economics and rural
sociology, the project would strengthen the Faculty of Agricultural Economics
and Rural Sociology at AUF, and the Faculty of Agricultural Social Sciences at
SAU. To upgrade these faculties, each university would enter into a twinning
arrangement with an eminent, appropriate overseas university, which would
provide assistance such as, among other things, teaching inputs, staff
training including MSc, PhD and post-doctoral studies, collaborative research,
and technical assistance for establishing curricula and research programs.
The exact form and content of these twinning arrangements is not presently
specified, but would be negoJiated by each university before the end of the



-  3
project's first year. The project would provide a lump sum, through PARC, for
each university to finance the twinning arrangement, plus some additional
staff positions, equipment, vehicles, textbooks and journals, and travel by
the university Vice-Chancellors, or Deans of the Social Science Faculties, to
v4sit overseas universities short-listed for the proposed twinning
arrangement. The project would also provide funds through PARC for research
in social sciences (AUF, Rs 6.8 million; SAU, RS 4.5 million). PARC and the
universities would enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) concerning
the supply of funds for the twinning arrangement and for social science
research. Regarding social science research, the MOU would also cover such
points as research priorities, submission of research proposals, monitoring,
evaluation, and publication of results. Assurances were obtained from GOP
that AVF and SATJ would each enter into and sign a twinning agreement with an
overseas university concerning assistance for their social science faculties
by June 30. 1991. and would enter into a MOU with PARC concerning funds for
the twinning arrangement and social science research by December 31. 1990.
3.23      Additional Provincial Priority Research.  While at the national
level PARC has identified broad priority areas for research to support the
Seventh FYP development objectives, at the provincial level the provinces
still have to state their priorities within the national parameters. This
would lead to additional research required other than that already listed in
the five priority research programs. The preparation of PRMPs would identify
this additional research, and to ensure work in these areas is not constrainrd
by insufficient research funds, the project would provide each province a lump
sum to be allocated to this work. Project funds allocated to each province
are Rs 115.2 million for Punjab, Rs 43.2 million for Sind, Rs 9.1 million of
Baluchistan, and Rs 24.3 million for NWFP. Provinces could use these funds to
finance incremental direct operational costs of research (such as materials,
fuel, labor, communications), and some capital expenditures (maximum 20%)
assoriatee with specific subprojects. Capital expenditures could only be for
items such as laboratory equipment, vehicles and livestock. Institute
overhead costs such as staff salaries, utilities, and building maintenance,
and building construction costs, would not be eligible for financing. PRMP
preparation would determine appropriate levels of recurrent and capital
research expenditures. Assurances were obtained from GOProvinces that they
would use these additional research funds only for research identified and
specified in PRMPs as apnroved by IDA.
3.24      The project would also provide Rs 12.4 million to assist PARC
implement long-term research plans developed for NARC.8 NARC could only use
these funds to finance the incremental direct operating costs and some capital
costs (as defined in para 3.24) of research listed in its long-term research
plan.
jB/ As contained in the Research Master Plan for the National Agricultural
Research Centre, October 1988, NARC/USAID, and as subsequently updated.
This master plan would be part of the overall NMARP.



- 24 -
Collaborative Research (US$0.5 million)
3.25      Collaboradive Research Program.  PARC would operate a collaborative
research program between eminent overseas research institutes and federal or
provincial research institutes doing similar work. The program would
facilitate the international exchange of information and material, give
impetus to Pakistan's research programs, train Pakistani research scientists,
and allow them to keep up-to-date in advancing fields of knowledge. To
support the program, the project would finance transport, accommodation and
other costs associated with visits of Pakistani scientists to overseas
research institutions, and of foreign scientists to Pakistan; and research on
Pakistani problems contracted to foreign institutes. To be eligible for the
program, a local institute must be working on either national or proviacial
priority research, and must have a nucleus of well trained staff who would
benefit from the program. PARC would operate the program following procedures
for selecting, approving, monitoring, accounting and auditing individual
collaborative research programs similar to those developed for contract
research under ARP I. Follow.ng PARC's approval of a proposed collaborative
research program the local and international institutes or agencies would
enter into an agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. At
least 601 of the funds would be allocated to collaborative research in which
the provinces would participate. Annex 11 specifies the guidelines for using
collaborative research funds.
Expansion of PARC/NARC Research Facilities (US$4.0 million)
3.26      NARC Infrastructure.  To provide suitable office accommodation for
its Plant Sciences Division, under the project, at its Islamabad campus NARC
would construct a new crop sciences building (some 2,415 in) with offices for
about 60 staff. As well, for all staff stationed on its campus, NARC would
construct a community center (about 1,175 nR) in the basement area of a new
cafeteria it is constructing with USAID assistance. To link its new livestock
farm center (conszructed under ARP I) to the main farm road, NARC would build
about 5 km of connecting road.
3.27      High Northern Areas Research.  To initiate and expand research
programs in the high northern areas and undertake research for farming
communities presently not serviced by provincial research systems, PARC would
expand its facilities and staff at Jaglot in the federally administered
northern areas (Gilgit district) and Kaghan in NWFP. At Jaglot (annual
average rainfalls from 100 to 500 mm) PARC, through its Agricultural Research
Institute for the Northern Areas (ARINA), would construct offices,
laboratories and housing, purchase equipment and vehicles, and hire technical
and support staff as a first stage to undertaking multidisciplinary research
in a variety of programs. These include land and soil management,
horticulture, crop, livestock and fisheries production. In formulating its
research programs, ARINA should coordinate closely with the Aga Khan Rural
Support Program, which, among other things, is assisting to develop
agricultural production in the Gilgit, Skardu and Chitral areas. At Kaghan
(average rainfall in excess of 1,500 mm) PIARC would expand its hill station,
-Ahich cereal breeders currently use during summer to raise two crops in one
year. The project would provide additional offices, laboratory, hostel
accommodation, equipment, vehicles, farm development, and operational costs.
Cereal breeders would expand their work, and station staff would develop



- 25 -
research programs for the surrounding farming communities. The station would
function as a department or division of NARC, and for six months of the year
when it is not accessible because of snow, staff would return to existing
offices at Abbottabad or NARC.
Training (U'S$20.2 million)
3.28      Trainirng is a key component of the project.  To considerably
increase the number of staff trained in research methodology and research
program leadership, and to introduce new ideas and concepts to Pakistani
researchers, the project would provide local and overseas long-term training
in MSc and PhD studies, and various modes of short-term training, such as
post-doctoral studies, refres'ier courses, or in-service training programs
conducted by local staff and overseas lecturers. Overseas PhD training is
necessary because of the dearth of staff well trained in research methodology
and research team leadership, and the non-availability of suitable programs at
Pakistani agricultural universities. A future project, planned to strengthen
higher level agricultural education is expected to rectify this situation.
Each province and PARC has specified funds for long- and short-term training,
which are not interchangeable between the provinces or PARC. Except in food
crop plant breeding, all long-term PhD training would be done overseas, and
this training would be spread between eminent universities throughout the
world. If necessary, MSc and PhD candidates would be given in-country
training in English language, mathematics or other subjects considered
necessary before proceeding overseas.  PhD candidates would take fov  years on
average to complete their studies, and during this period would return to
Pakistan to do their thesis research. The project would provide funds for the
students' research supervisor to visit them while they are in Pakistan. All
training would be either in research planning and management or in the
priority programs of horticulture, livestock, soil science, IPM or social
sciences. It would support actual work which the project would finance, and
is based on reviews of skills required. Annexes 3 through 7 and the Project
Implementation Volume give details on long-term training, while Annex 10,
Table 1 lists the aggregate training program by research service and area of
training.
Technical Assistance (USt7.3 million)
3.29      To assist PARC, other federal institutes, and the provinces
implement project works and programs, the project would provide
internationally and locally recruited consultant services to assist:
(a) assessment of research investment priorities; (b) research monitoring and
evaluation; (c) preparation of PRMPs; (d) use of program budgeting in research
planning; (e) diagnostic studies of agroecological zones; and (f) research
programs in horticulture, livestock, soil science, IPM, and social sciences.
Annex 10, Table 2 lists the consultant months allocated to each of these
items, while Annexes 2 through 6 list consultant tasks and TORs. By
December 31, 1990, the provinces and PARC would each internationally recruit a
single firm to supply the above services, including long and short training
services (see paras 3.28 and 4.16). One other federal agency, the Soil Survey
of Pakistan would internationally recruit and sign a contract for engaging a
consultant to assist in computerizing soil survey data by December 31, 1990.
PARC would locally recruit consultants to assist with the design and
construction of the crop sciences building and other implementation matters as



- 26 -
needed (30 staff months). PARC would also internationally recruit consultants
to assist with the project mid-term review (para 4.18). Assurances were
obtained from GOP that federal agencies and the provinces would finalize
arrangements and sign contracts for engaging consultants with gualifications
and under conditions acceptable to IDA by the dates and for the services
specified in this paragraDh. Hiring the firm for services (a) through (f)
above plus training for the nrovinces and (a). (b). (d). (f) and training for
PARC would be a condition for disbursements for civil works. equipment.
furniture, books and journals. training. and incremental onerating costs
excegt for the initial Dayments into the sRecial accounts Rlus SDR 251.000 for
PARC. SDR 194.000 for Puniab. SDR 155.000 for Sind. SDR 96.700 for NWFP. and
SDR 77.000 for Baluchistan.
Imolementation Schedule
3.30      GOP and GOProvinces would implement the project during the seven
years from July, 1990, to June, 1997. Annex 13 shows the start of most major
project components. During the first two years the activities most crucial to
project implementation would be reorganizing the provincial research services,
preparing PRMPs, and identifying trainees for long-term training and placing
them in overseas universities.
D. Cost Estima'es
3.31      The total estimated project cost is US$81.9 million, of which
US$51.8 million (63X) is the foreign exchange component. Project costs are
expressed in June 1990 prices, and include duties and taxes estimated at
US$6.9 million. Base cost estimates were derived from detailed cost analyses
of recent PARC training programs, federal and provincial research programs,
and office, laboratory and house construction contracts in the project areas.
Contract quantities for building construction are based on standard GOP or
GOProvince designs. Consultant services cost are based on recent contracts
for similar services in Pakistan. The cost estimates include allowances for
physical contingencies of 15X for civil works and 10% for machinery,
equipment, training and technical assistance. Additionally, the cost
estimates include allowances for price escalations during implementation (16%
of base cost plus physical contingencies) based on IDA's estimated domestic
and foreign inflation rates as shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: ANNUAL INFLATION RATES (X)
FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96       FY97
Domestic costs            6.8   6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
International costs       4.9   4.9     4.9      4.9     4.9      4.3      3.7
3.32      Table 3.2 summarizes project costs while Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2,
and the Project Implementation Volume give the details of these costs.



- 27 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
MAI4P0 '0001                lUSs '0001                  1 otal
- -------------------------     -   -                     I  fotesgn  Base
Loca I   iforeign    lotal    ocal IForeign  total   Exchange   Costs
-= .=== =-=S : ==      = : ::  :::,:::: :,::;:::  :::::::: :.,:::
A. PARC                             96.521 3  115,465.9  211,987 2  4.468 6 5.345 6 9.814.2      54      IS
8. PUNJZA                          133. 193.3  189. 9S0. 2  323. 143.5  6. 166. 4 8.794.0 14. 960. 3  59  23
C. SIND                             88.511 0  160. 151.8  248,662.8  4.097. 7 7,414.4 11, 512. 2  64     17
D. BA1UC1HISIAN                     34.242 0   89.941 8  124.183 9  1.585.3 4. 164 0 5,749.3     72       9
E. NORTH WESTERN FRONTIER PROVINCE  44.864 5  107.493 0  152.357 5  2.077 1 4.976.5 7.053 6      71      11
F. STRENINENING PROVINCIAL RESEARCH    116.276 3  118.633 7  234.910 0  5.383.2 5,492.3 10.875.5  51     16
G. AGRICULTRUAL UNIVERSIIY FAISALASAD   IS 617.0   54. 133.5   69.750 5    723.0 2.506 2 3.229.2  78      5
N. SIND AGRICULIURAt UNIVERSITY      7.426.1   60.967 I   68,393.2   343.8 2.822.6 3,166.4       89       5
Total BASELINE COSTS                 536.651.6  896.736 9 1.433.388.5 24.845.0 41.515.6 66,360.6   63     100
Physical Contingencies             16,281 8   78.415 9   94.697.7    753.8 3.630 4 4.384.2      83       7
Price Contingencies                98.124.0  143.532 6  241.656.7  4.542.8 6.645 0 11. 187.8    59      17
lfeal POJECI COSIS                  851.057.4 1.118.685.5 1.769.742. 9 30;141.5 51.791 0 81,932.5  63    123
E.   Financing
3.33          Table 3.3 shows the proposed project financing plan.  The proposed
IDA credit of SDR 44.4 million (US$57.3 million) would finance 70X of project
costs, including 100X of foreign exchange costs and 181 of local costs.  GOP
and GOProvinces would provide the balance of project funds, Rs 531.4 million
(US$24.6 million) to the project implementing agencies out of annual budget
appropriations. Funds for provincial expenditures will flow from the Ministry
of Finance directly to the provinces as annual development plan funds. Other
funds for strengthening provincial research would flow from MOF through PARC
to the concerned institute or AUF or SAU. Excluding duties end taxes, IDA
would finance 76X of project costs. Full aDproval by the Executive Committee
of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) of the project's Planning Commission
Form No. 1 (PC-1} is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Table 3.3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ millions)
Total
Cat'egor                        zGOP  GOPuniab   OSin   GOBaluch. GONWFP   IDA  Cost
Civil Works                       1.5        0.2           0.2          -             -          2.9    4.8
Vehicles                          1.3         0.6          0.7          0.3           0.3        -        3.2
Machinery & Equipment  0.3                    0.3          0.2          0.1           0.1        8.3   9.3
Collaborative  Res.               -           -            -            -             -          0.5      0.5
Training                          -           -            -            -             -         27.0   27.0
Tech.  Assistance                 0.5        0.4           0.3          0.2          0.3         7.0      8.7
Incremental  Salaries            4.3         1.7           1.7          0.8          0.6         -        9.1
Operating  Funds                  3.1        2.2           1.2          0.4          0.8        11.6   19.3
Total                           11.0          5.4          431.8                     21         57.3   81.9
^  Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$6.9 million.



- 28 -
F. Procurement
3.34    Table 3.4 summarizes the project's procurement arrangements, while the
following paragraphs describe them in more detail.
Table 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions) LI
---------- Procurement Method ----------
Total
Project Element                ICB        _LCB       Other       NA  b  Cost
Civil Works                    0.9         3.9         -         -         4.8
(0.5)       (2.4)                           (2.9)
Vehicles                       -           -           3.2 k     -         3.2
Machinery & Equipment          5.1         -           4.2       -         9.3
(5.1)                  (3.2)                (8.3)
Collaborative Res.             -           -          0.5        -         0.5
(0.5)               (0.5)
Local Training                 -           -           1.0       -         1.0
(1.0)               (1.0)
Foreign Training               -           -         26.0        -        26.0
(26.0)              (26.0)
Tech. Assistance               -           -           8.7       -         8.7
(7.0)               (7.0)
Incremental Salaries           -           -           -         9.1       9.1
Incremental Research Costs    -            -         19.3        -        19.3
(11.6)              (11.6)
Total                          6.0         3.9       62.9        9.1      81.9
(5.6)       (2.4)     (49.3)               (57.3)
L  Including taxes, duties, and contingencies.  Figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
^ Procurement procedures are not applicable.
j Reserved procurement.
M Including office supplies, materials, fuel, labor, travel, and vehicle and
machinery O&M.
3.35      Civil Works (USS4.8 million).  The Crop Sciences Offices (US$0.9
million) would be constructed following international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.  Local contractors participatir.g in
this ICB procurement would have a 7-1/2% preference. All other project
buildings, however, would be small and dispersed geographically throughout
Pakistan. They would consist mainly of standard design housing, offices and
laboratories, and would not be of interest to international contractors.
These works (US$3.9 million) would be undertaken following local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures. PARC and the provinces' LCB procedures are



- 29 -
generally consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution
of the project. There are, however, a few procedures which are inconsistent
with Bank procurement guidelines and others which require clarification.
During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the adoption of
procedures acceptable to IDA.
3.36      Motorcycles. Machinery. Equipment. Office Furniture. Books and
Journals (USS9.3 Million). Farm, laboratory and office equipment, farm
machinery, motorcycles, and office furniture costing US$5.1 million would be
bulked into contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more, and procured following
IDA ICB guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price or
the actual customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is
lower, would be extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of
bids. However, as these goods, equipment and materials would be required in
various amounts, at different times, and at many different sites in the four
provinces, items which cannot be bulked into contracts of US$50,000, and
totalling about US$3.2 million, could be locally or internationally procured
through shopping involving at least three price quotations. Proprietary spare
parts, scientific journals and textbooks (US$1.0 million) may be purchased
directly from the suppliers. The total value of items procured through
shopping, and by direct purchase, would be limited to an aggregate US$4.2
million. Vehicles (US$3.2 million), would be reserved procurement and,
therefore, not reimbursable under the Credit. Vehicle costs have been
excluded from project costs when establishing the project Credit.
3.37      Consultant services (US$8.7 million) would be procured according to
IDA guidelines, and overseas and local training arrangements (US$27.0 million)
would be subject to IDA approval. Collaborative research expenditures,
comprising travel, accommodation, materials and supplies, would follow normal
government practices under agreements subject to IDA approval. Project
expenditures on incremental research operating costs (US$19.3 million, which
includes fuel, fertilizer, seed, labor, repairs and maintenance to vehicles
and machinery and so on in small purchases for 40 or more research stations
throughout Pakistan) would be handled following normal government practices.
3.38      Contracts for US$50,000 and US$70,000 equivalent or more for civil
works and machinery/equipment, respectively, would require IDA review of
documentation before tendering and award, and this would cover 45% of the
value of works, and 55% of equipment. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review.
G. Disbursements
3.39      The Credit would be disbursed over eight years, and would be
completed by June 30, 1998. The proposed disbursement schedule (Annex 1,
Table 3) is slightly longer than the actual disbursement profiles for ARP-I
(Credit 1158-PAK) and the first two Extension and Adaptive Research projects
(Crs. 813/922-PAK), which were disbursed over approximately seven years.
Seven years is also the length of the standard disbursement profile for all
Pakistani agricultural projects. The project disbursement period has been
slightly extended over the standard profile to allow additional time for long-
term training.



-30 -
3.40      IDA would disburse Credit funds at the following rates for these
items:
Category                           Percent to be Financed
(a) Civil works, including roads        60%
and buildings
(b) Motorcycles, machinery,             100% of foreign exchange expenditures;
equipment, office furniture,        100% of ex-factory prices of locally
scientific books & Journals        manufactured items; 60% of local costs
for imported items purchased locally
(c) Training and collaborative research 100% of expenditures
(d) Technical assistance                80% of expenditures
(e) Incremental research operating      80% till SDR 4.1 million disbursed,
costs (including labor, materials  then 60% till SDR 7.2 million
fuel, and vehicle R&M)             disbursed, then 40% for remainder
3.41      Disbursements for the following items would be against certified
statement of expenditures (SOEs): (a) civil works contracts and direct
purchases (including prudent shopping) of less than US$50,000 equivalent, and
equipment contracts of less than US$70,000 equivalent; (b) local and overseas
training costs; and (c) incremental research operating expenses. Project
implementing agencies would retain supporting documentation for these items
for review by IDA and external auditors. Disbursements applications for all
other items would be fully documented. Annex 1, Table 4 shows the allocation
of Credit funds to the different disbursement categories.
3.42      To facilitate implementation, five special accounts would be
established: One for PARC, one each for Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan
Agricultural Departments (Sind special account would be transferred to SARO
following its establishment), and one for AUP. These accounts would be opened
according to arrangements for existing projects, and would be used for most
disbursements except thoise 'n excess of US$1.5 million, and payments for
consultant services.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.43      Implementing agencies would maintain separate project accounts which
independent auditors, acceptable to IDA and using procedures satisfactory to
IDA, would audit annually. The auditors would issue separate opinions on
disbursements from the special accounts and SOEs and supporting documents used
as the basis for disbursements from the Credit. Implementing agencies would
provide their auditors unaudited project accounts within three months of the
fiscal year's end (September 30), and each would submit an audit report of
project accounts to IDA within six months (December 31). Assura.ices were
obtained from GOP and GOProvinces that implementing agencies would follow
these auditing Dractices.
91   These SDR disbursement amcunts have been aggregated.  See Table 4, Annex 1
for disbursement amounts by province.



- 31 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEKENT
A. Provincial Implementation
4.01      At the provincial level responsibility for implementing the project
would be as follows:
(a)  AUP in NWFP, with AUP's Director of Research the provincial project
manager responsible for planning, guiding, coordinating and
supervising project activities;
(b)  initially the Agricultural Department in Sind, then SARO, following
its establishment, with DGAR ARI Tandojam as the provincial project
manager and then the Clairman SARO; and
(c)  the Agricultural Departments in conjunction with the Livestock
Departments in Punjab and Baluchistan, with DGAR ARI Faisalabad and
Director of Research ARI Sariab as the provincial project managers.
4.02      Research Planning.  AtTP's Research Coordination Board, SARO, PARB
and BARB would be responsible for defining each respective province's broad
research priorities and guidelines for the allocation of resources to these
priorities. They would also establish, in conjunction with PARC (para 3.12)
the criteria and procedures for long and short-term research planning. Within
each province individual research divisions or institutes would determine the
su'i-allocations to high priority technical research thrusts, and develop long-
term research plans, while at the research program level individual
researchers or research teams would prepare their atunual work programs
determining the most relevant work to be done with available manpower and
financial resources.
4.03      Provincial Secretariats/MSUs.  The four Secretariats established
under the project to support SARO and the three Research Boards (Punjab,
Baluchistan and NWFP, see paras 3.05-3.07) would be responsible for monitoring
and coordinating project implementation within the respective provinces, and
for preparing disbursement applications and half-yearly reports on project
progress which they would send to IDA through PARC's project implementation
unit. Each Secretariat would also advise its Board or SARO on provincial
research priorities and the allocation of resources to these priorities;
oversee and assist the preparacion of PRMPs (if necessary, assisting research
institutes undertake long- and short-term research plarning); establish and
maintain registers of all provincial research staff and p..ojects; and monitor
and externally evaluate provincial agricultural research.
4.04      In Punjab, MSUs attached to the Directors-General of Agricultural
and Livestock Research would advise and assist with annual ani long-term
research planning, and internal monitoring of research programs within the
Institutes.  In all the provinces, to better identify resources needed in
research programs, the project would introduce program budgeting into
researchers' preparation of estimated research program costs.
4.05      Provincial Research Master Plan Preparation.  Each of the four
provincial project managers would form a Research Working Group (headed by a
staff member from the respective Secretariats), and Subject Matter Subgroups,



- 32 -
to prepare PRMPs. Senior research staff would form the -bgroups, with major
inputs from research directors and internationally and locally-recruited
consultants. The subgroups would review in detail and prepare research
programs and projects, manpower training requirements, staff incentives
improvements, research facilities and equipment needs, improvements to
effective linkages with extension and internal and external research
o;ganizations, improvements to research and management information systems,
and capital and operating budgetary requirements. In particular, the
subgroups would review unfilled, sanctioned research staff positions, which if
not in priority research areas, should be transferred to areas where positions
are needed, or cancelled before new staff positions are created.  The first
PRMPs should be completed by August 31, 1992, and then AUP, SARO, PARB and
BARB would update PRMPs every year. To ensure the provinces complete the work
on time, and then annually updated PRMPs, assurances were obtained from
GOProvinces that they would: (a) annoint the working garties by October 31.
1990: (b) submit the completed PRMP to IDA for review by August 31. 1992:
(c) submit the updated PRMP to IDA for review by March 31 each year: and
(d) annually provide sufficient capital and ogerating and maintenance-funds to
successfully implement PRMPs.
4.06      Provincial Priority Research Funds.  In accordance with provincial
research priorities identified in PRMPs, AUP, SARO, PARB and BARB through
their Executive Committee, or a special committee, would allocate the
additional provincial priority research funds unich the project would provide.
These funds would be used mainly for incremental operating expenditures and
would either augment operating funds the provinces are already providing for
existing programs, or allow the province to initiate new research programs,
and would allow researchers' time and creativity to be utilized to the
maximum. The funds would only be allocated to specific research proposals or
projects which have been fully justified, prepared, budgetted and included in
the province's PRMP (para 3.23).
4.07      Each of the provinces would implement any civil works construction
through its provincial Communications and Works Departments (C&W). As civil
works are minimal, C&W Departments would be able to handle this work.
4.08      Agriculttirai Universities.  PARC would disburse funds to AUF and SAU
to enable them to undertake their project activities. The AUF and SAU
Directors of Research would be responsible for preparing annual, overall work
plans and budgets covering each universities' annual project implementation
program, and would meet and discuss these with PARC each year to ensure PARC
includes the necessary funds in its annual budget.
B. Federal Implementation
4.09      At the federal level PARC would have overall responsibility for
executing the project. PARC's institutes, NARC, AZRI, and ARINA would be
responsible for developing and implementing individual research programs and
activities. PARC would also administer funds provided for administration of
nationally coordinated research programs, collaborative research, university
research, the mid-term review and development of AERUs. A project
implementation unit (PIU), established under ARP I, would be responsible for
coordinating PARC's and its institutes activities.



- 33 -
4.10      Project Implementation.  The Five Members of PARC's Executive Board
would plan, coordinate, supervise and g-_ide project activities within the
relevant sections of PARC, and at the institute level the institute directors
and program leaders would implement project programs and activities. However,
PIU would be responsible for the day-to-day coordination of project
activities. This unit has now become part of PARC's Planning Directorate, and
expanded to include five sciertific level officers (originally three) plus
support staff. PIU would monitor and review project progress, prepare
quarterly reports (including collating those of the province) for IDA, liaise
with the provinces and agricultural universities on matters such as training,
collaborative, nationally coordinated, and university research, and prepare
federal disbursement applications, while collating those of the provinces, for
sending to IDA. Within six months of Credit completion PIU would prepare a
completion report, acceptable to IDA, reporting on all aspects of project
implementation.
4.11      Federal Research Planning.  PARC's Planning Directorate would be
responsible for advising PARC's Board of Governors on the determ!'.ation of
broad national research priorities and the allocation of research resources to
these priorities. The Social Sciences Division would assist the Planning
Directorate on the economic, social, and political aspects of determining
national research priorities (see para 3.21). It is important that PARC makes
an early statement on broad national research priorities and establishes
guidelines for the allocation of resources to these priorities to allow
long-term research planning to begin (see PPR'1, Annex 2, pp 17-20). An
assurance was obtained that PARC would define broad national research
priorities and establish guidelines for the allocation of resources to these
Driorities by November 30. 1990.
4.12      In preparing the National Master Agricultural Research Plan, the
Planning Unit of the Planning Directorate (para 3.08) would arrange for PARC
institutes to prepare their long-term plans. It would then collate these with
the provincially produced PRMPs to produce the overall master research plan.
As other federal ministries or agencies doing agricultural research presently
do not plan long-term, it is impossible to include their proposed programs in
the national master plan. However, PARC and the provinces, by undertaking
long-term planning, would be able to discuss their future work programs with
these other agencies art, in this way, encourage complementary approaches by
all agencies and reduce duplication of work. An assurance was obtained from
GOP that it would provide adeguate capital and operating funds to PARC to
allow it and its institutes to successfully implement their long-term research
Rlans as contained in NMARP.
4.13      The Planning Directorate's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would
establish data processing and appropriate procedures to monitor PARC projects,
establish evaluation methods and procedures, assist in the evaluations of
other research institutions and, if requested, assist in -.stablishing
monitoring units and internal evaluation procedures at other research
institutions.
IO/  Project Preparation Report, op. cit.



- 34 -
4.14      Civil Works and Procurement.  PARC's Directorate of Works and
Procurement Section would undertake all civil works and equipment procurement
respectively at the federal level. ARP-I strengthened both these groups, and
they are suitably staffed to undertake this work.
C. Training
4.15      Project preparation work has already broadly identified training
requirements in research planning, programming, resource allocation,
monitoring, and evaluation, and in the priority areas of horticulture,
livestock, soil science, IPM, and social sciences. Project management would
firm-up training activities, particularly for short-term training, during
project implementation. While PRMP preparation and long-term research
planning at the federal level would identify other training needs, this would
have to be financed from other sources, possibly an ARP-III.
4.16      Each province would be responsible for its own training program,
while PARC would be responsible for training at the federal level. Besides
selecting those with high academic qualifications for PhD studies, to ensure
all PhD trainiag slots are filled, the provinces would also consider those
with an acceptable academic career and proven research ability (for example,
published research papers, influential reports, outstanding work on a
program).  However, seniority or length of time in a department would not be a
selection criteria. The provinces would arrange and implement any in-country
training their candidates require before overseas universities would accept
them, while Economic Affairs Division, GOP, would clear all successful
provincial candidates through federal procedures necessary before leaving
Pakistan. An internationally recruited firm would then place and administer
provincial PhD candidates in overseas universities. To ensure cohesion
between the technical assistance and training programs, a province would use
the same firm to supply services in both areas. This firm could also supply
short-term training services as needed. NWFP, which already has a successful
overseas long-term training program underway under the USAID assisted TIPAN
project, would expand this program using its present contractor, the
University of Illinois. PARC, which has developed a capacity to implement
overseas training programs under ARP-I and MART, would only require limited
technical assistance to place and administer federal PhD candidates overseas.
To ensure that the long-term training commenced early in the project's life,
PARC and the provinces would identify the first group of trainees by March 31,
1991.
D. Project Assessment. Mid-Term Review and Supervision
4.17      Project Assessment.  Because of the project's complexity, and the
large number of agencies involved in project execution, PARC and the provinces
would each, jointly with IDA, assess implementation of its c-mponent towards
the end of the first two implementation years (this is expected to be around
October/November 1991 and 1992, respectively). The assessment would be done
during a supervision mission, and PARC and the provinces would prepare short
reports before the supervision listing implemer.cation constraints and
shortfalls. Following field visits, PARC, provincial and IDA mission members'
would discuss their findings, and issue a short report reviewing project
progress and any needed changes in implementation or project design, which
would be adopted.



- 35 -
4.18      PARC, assisted by internationally recruited consultants, would
review the project's progress no later than 42 months after Credit
effectivene_s (around January 31, 1994). The review would concentrate on:
(a) provincial research reorganization; (b) PRMP's recommendations and
allocation of incremental operating funds; (c) additional research resource
needs of provinces identified by PRMPs; (d) strengthening of PARC to plan,
coordinate, monitor and evaluate research; (e) progress in the priority
research programs funded by the project; and (f) progress in training
programs. PARC would obtain IDA's approval of the review team's TORs and
composition by June 30, 1993. Based on the review's results, GOP, GOProvinces
and IDA would agree on, and implement, any changes needed to improve the
project's impact. To support the review, the project would provide technical
assistance (7 months) and funds to produce and publish the review's report.
Assurances were obtained from GOP that: (a) PARC and the provinces with IDA
would iointly assess Rroiect implementation towards the end of the project's
first two implementation years. thac is. not later than November 30. 1991 and
1992. and would groduce a report reviewing project progress and listing needed
changes in implementation and design. which subsequently would be adopted: and
(b) PARC. assisted by internationally recruited consultants with
gualifications and under conditions acceRtable to IDA. would undertake a mid-
term review of the Rroiect no later than January 31. 1994. in accordance with
terms of reference which would be agreed by June .0. 1993. and would implement
agreed changes to proiect design or implementation.
4.19      Supervision.  The project would need a heavy annual supervision
input, particularly during the first two years when the provinces are
reorganizing their research administration, establishing MSUs, and preparing
PRMPs. Annex 14 contains a proposed supervision plan for the project, which
details the required annual staff inputs, and expected skill requirements
needed on supervision missions. During the project's initial three years
approximately 15 staff weeks per year would be required for supervision. This
requirement should fall to 13 staff weeks in FY94, and then settle at 11 staff
weeks per year for the remaining three years. During supervision IDA staff
should pay particular attention to research administration reorganization,
PRMP preparation, procurement of technical assistance, and commeacement and
implementation of the long and short-term training programs.
V. BENErITS. JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.01      The project would considerably improve the management and
organization of Pakistan's provincial and federal agricultural research
systems, leading to more efficient and effective utilization of resources
allocated to research. Under the project, GOP and COProvinces would put in
place new procedures and structures to determine research priorities, and to
allocate resources among and within programs. Additional major project
benefits .?ould be to enhance the quality of experimental work through staff
training and creating a more conducive environment for research; sharpen the
focus on farmers' problems and improve the dissemination of results through
better research/extension linkages; and through supplying additional
resources, expand federal and provincial agencies' capability to undertake



- 36 -
research in priority areas. The project would complement IDA-assisted
Agricultural Extension projects in Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan; and support
GOP's policy of increasing agricultural yields and diversification, orienting
research towards small farmers, and ensuring a productive and sustainable use
of land and water resources.
5.02      The technological improvements, the rate and extent of their
adoption by farmers, and the productivity and output gains due to their
application, cannot be accurately predicted and are likely to vary
significantly across agro-ecological zones. Moreover, future gains in
productivity would be attributable not merely to the adoption of technological
innovations, but to the combined impact of various support services (input
supply, extension services and so on) as well as to that of the general
macroeconomic environment. It is therefore planned that the federal research
monitoring and evaluation unit would develop a reliable data base for
generating an indicative analysis of the economic returns to various programs,
as a planning tool for adjusting research priorities among and within
programs.
5.03      The just'fication for the proposed level of additional research
expenditures is reinforced by ex-post evaluations of investments in
agricultural research in both developed and developing countries which have
virtually always shown high returns, exceeding 402 in most cases. Studies in
India show that returns to agricultural research during the green revolution
ranged from 40 to 60%." While later work disputes some of these high
returns, well planned high-priority research in Pakistan should give economic
rates of return attractive enough to justify this investment. As well,
Pakistan, which depends heavily on agriculture, must have access to constantly
advancing agricultural technology, to provide food for its growing population,
improve rural incomes, and earn foreign exchange. Even if some technology can
be imported, it needs to be tested and, in most cases, modified and adapted.
Most often considerable research is required to adapt such technology to local
conditions and the country cannot afford to be without effective research
services.
5.04      The project would have r jor institution building benefits,
including strengthening provincial research services so they can better
interact with federal services and overseas institutes; consolidating the
various crop, livestock, and fishery rcsearch services in Sind so that a more
unified approach is taken to agricultural research; and improving research
planning capacity, identifying of priorities, and allocating of resources to
those priorities so that research programs fit the available resources, and
concentrate on priority research. The project would improve the coordination
of research, reduce the duplication of work, and introduce monitoring and
evaluation to all research systems. PRPMs would provide a suitable framework
for channeling donor assistance to priority provincial research programs.
"/   Evenson  R.E.,  "Benefits  and  Obstacles  to  Appropriate  Agricultural
Technology", Yale University, Economic Growth Center, Paper No. 313, 1982.



- 37 -
B. Risks
5.05      The main project risks include administrative difficulties arising
from the reorganization of research services, inadequate budgetary resources,
possible irrelevance of proposed research and farmers not adopting research
results. To minimize these risks the project firstly would provide technical
assistance to help GOProvinces design and implement organizational changes,
plus supply intensive management training. Secondly, in preparing PRMPs,
GOProvinces and the consultants would review in detail all important aspects
of provincial research services to ensure administrative changes and improved
management systems fit local needs and customs. The project-introduced
research planning, priority setting, and program budgeting would enable
research administrators to direct available resources towards priority
research, and show in detail the costs of undertaking the proposed research
programs, thus allowing them to more strongly present their case for adequate
and timely financing. The provision of such financing also is required as a
condition under the project (paras 4.05 and 4.12). Lastly, the project should
help to maintain the relevance of research programs and encourage farmer's
adoption of research results by improving planning to relate research to
national and provincial priorities, promoting better linkages between
research, extension and farmers, and formulating research programs taking a
farming systems perspective while increasing on-farm research. The
introduction of uniform procedures and criteria to select research programs,
and screening by local multidisciplinary groups, should also help to maintain
the relevance and quality of research programs.
C. Envircnmental Effects
5.06      Droject activities would contribute substantially to improving and
safeguarding the agro-e_osystems. The project would establish integrated pest
management programs throughout Pakistan which would reduce the use of
pesticides and pesticide contamination of food and pollution of water
resources. The soil science programs would concentrate on work which would
increase the efficiency of irrigation water use, reduce water-logging, reclaim
saline soils, improve the design of drainage systems, and design techniques
for water harvesting and storage in rainfed areas. Livestock programs would
look at regenerating rangelands and other grazing areas, and introducing
livestock production systems which allow the sustainable use of these areas.
Lastly, the project would finance multi-disciplinary research programs in the
Northern area.s of Pakistan directed at not only increasing agricultural
production but also improving and protecting the land and water resources of
the area.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with GOP and GOProvinces
on the following points:
(a) Sind would establish a new research organization which would provide
for: (i) autonomy in staff recruiting; (ii) promotion of
professional staff based on objective criteria of merit and research
achievement; (iii) financial management along administrative lines
followed by universities and other autonomous bodies in Pakistan;



- 38 -
(iv) collegiate style of management; and (v) planning, programming,
resource allocation, monitoring, and evaluation of research, by
June 30, 1991 (para 3.03);
(b) Punjab and Baluchistan by June 30, 1991 would: (i) change existing
Public Service regulations to improve agricultural research staff
recruitment and provide for the promotion of professional research
staff to be based on merit and research achievement as measured by
objective criteria; and (ii) establish Agricultural Research Boards
(para 3.04);
(c) by December 31, 1990: (i) Sind would establish an MSU initially to
be attached to the office of DGAR ARI Tandojam, and following SARO
establishment, to become its secretariat; (ii) NWFP would establish
an MSU attached to the office of AUP's Director of Research, which
would also serve as a Secretariat for AUP's Research Coordination
Board; (iii) Punjab would establish three separate MSUs to service
PARB, and the Directors General of Agriculture and Livestock
Research; and (iv) Baluchistan would establish an MSU to service
BARB (para 3.07);
(d) PARC would establish its new Planning Directorate by December 31,
1990 (para 3.09);
(e) during PU P preparation PARC and the provinces would meet
periodically to ensure that standard techniques and adopted in PRMP
preparation. During ARP-II's first two years these meeting would be
held every three months (para 3.12);
(f) AUF and SAU would each enter into and sign a twinning agreement with
an overseas university to assist upgrade their social science
faculties by June 30, 1991, and would enter into and sign a MOU with
PARC concerning funds for the twinning agreement and social science
research by December 31, 1990 (para 3.22);
(g) GOProvinces would use the additional research funds allocated for
provincial priority research only for programs identified and
specified in PRMPs as approved by IDA (para 3.23);
(h) PARC would locally recruit consultants, with qualifications and
under conditions acceptable to IDA, to assist with the design and
construction of the crop sciences building, and other implementation
matters as needed (para 3.29);
(i) by December 31, 1990, the Soil Survey of Pakistan would sign a
contract for engaging an internationally recruited consultant with
qualifications and under conditions acceptable to IDA, to assist in
computerizing soil survey date (para 3.29);
(j) Implementing agencies would: (i) maintain separate accounts for all
investments under the project; (ii) have independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and using procedures satisfactory to IDA, audit
the accounts annually, issuing separate opinions on disbursements
from the special accounts, and statements of expenditure and other



- 39 -
supporting documentation used as the basis for disbursements from
the Credit; and (iii) submit the audit report of project accounts to
IDA no later than December 31 of each year (para 3.43);
(k)  GOProvinces would:  (i) appoint a Research Working Group and Subject
Matter Subgroups by October 31, 1990; (ii) submit completed PRMPs to
IDA for review by August 31, 1992; (iii) submit updated PRMPs to IDA
for review by March 31 of each year; and (iv) annually provide
sufficient capital and operating and maintenance funds to
successfully implement PRMPs (para 4.05);
(1)  PARC would define broad national research priorities and establish
guidelines for the allocation of resources to these priorities by
November 30, 1990 (para 4.11);
(m)  GOP would provide adequate capital and operating funds to PARC to
allow it and its institutes to successfully implement their long-
term research plans as contained in NMARP (para 4.12); and
(n)  (i) PARC and the provinces with IDA would jointly assess project
implementation towards the end of the project's first two
implementation years, that is, not later than November 30, 1991 and
1992, and would prepare a report reviewing project progress and
listing needed changes in implementation and design, which
subsequently would be adopted; and (ii) PARC, assisted by
internationally recruited consultants with qualifications and under
conditions acceptable to IDA, would undertake a mid-term review of
the project no later than January 31, 1994 in accordance with terms
of reference which would be agreed by June 30, 1993, and would
implement agreed changes to project design or implementation (para
4.18).
6.02      Agreement was reached with PARC and GOProvinces that disbursing
credit funds in excess of the initial payments into the special accounts, plus
SDR 251,000 for PARC, SDR 194,000 for Punjab, SDR 155,000 for Sind, SDR 96,700
for NWFP, and SDR 77,000 for Baluchistan, for civil works, equipment,
furniture, books and journals, training and incremental operating costs would
be conditional on PARC and GOProvinces each signing, by December 31, 1990, a
single contract to engage an internationally recruited firm of consultants,
with qualifications and under conditions acceptable to IDA, to assist:
(a)  the provinces to:  (i) assess the priorities of research
investments; (ii) establish research monitoring and evaluation
programs; (iii) prepare PRMPs and introduce program budgeting into
research planning; (iv) undertake and train staff in diagnostic
surveys of agroecological zones; (v) initiate and strengthen
research programs in horticulture, livestock, soil science and IPM;
and (iv) place and administer long and short-term trainees in
foreign universities and programs; and
(b)  PARC to:  (i) assess the priorities of research investments;
(ii) establish research monitoring and evaluation programs;
(iii) introduce program budgeting into research planning;
(iv) initiate and strengthen research programs in horticulture,



- 40 -
livestock soil science, IPM and social science; and (v) place and
administer long and short-term trainees in foreign universities and
programs (para 3.29).
6.03      The IDA Credit would not become effective until ECNEC has approved
the project's PC-1 and sanctioned project expenditures (para 3.33).
6.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 44.4 million (US$57.3 million equivalent' on
standard terms with a 35-year maturity. The Borrower would be the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



- 41 -                                                ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Project Cost Estimiates
Punjab
(Rupee *0001                     IUS$  000)                       S TotaI
-----------------------------  -------------------------  S foreign   ease
Local    foreign   total         Local  Foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
=:==zz====  ======= == :::::=====::::::   =:=:==== :=z===:=  =:=-=:===   :::::::
A. REORGANIZATION S PREPARATION OF PRM    29.586.2  25.710.2  55 296.4  1.369.7  1. 190.3  2.560.0                  46        17
B. DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES                          3.484.9   6.976.5  10.461.4    161.3    323.0    484.3               67         3
C. HORTICULTURE                               S. 910.3  32. 546. 0  38. 456. 4    273.6  1. 506. 8  1. 780. 4       85        12
D. LIVESTOCK                                   3.463.9  15. 198.4  18. 662.3    160.4    703.6    864 0             81         6
E. SOIL SCIENCE                               11. 766. 6  24. 677. 1  36. 443.7    544.7  1. 142. 5  1. 687. 2      68       !I
F. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGENENI                 13.861.7  37.091.4  50.953.1    641.7  1.717.2  2.358.9               73        16
G. INCREMENTAL OPERATION FUNDS                65.119.7  47.750.6 112.870.3  3.014.8  2.210.7  §.225.5               42        35
....   -    -- - - - -   -- - - -  - -- --   - - - - -   - - - - -   -- -- --   . .. .. . ...........
Total BASELINE COSTS                           133.193.3 189.950.2 323. 143.5  6. 166.4  8.794.0 14.960.3             59       100
Physicil Contingencies                       2.916.7  15.529.2  18.445.9    135.0    718.9    854.0                84         6
Price Contingencies                          15.752.3  23.698.9  39.451.2    729.3  I.097.2  1.826. 4              60        12
Total PROJECT COSTS                            151.862.3 229. 178.3 381.040 6  7.030.? 10.610. I 17.640 8             60       118
Sind
IRupee  0001                    1US$  0001                       S Total
.--  - -- -------.---.--  ------------------------      Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign   Total        tocal  Foreign  Total    Exchange    Costs
:=::=:::: :::: :  = : =====: ::===   z:z::=   :
A. REORGANIZATION A PREPARATION OF PRP    12.226.3  21.835.6  34,061.9    566.0 1.010.9  1.576.9                   64        14
8. DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES                          2.989.4   4. 550.0   7.539.3    138.4   210.6    349.0              60         3
C. HORTICULTURE                               12. 189. 1  33.706.3  45.895.4    564.3 1.560. 5  2.124.8            73        18
0. LIVESTOCK                                  2.935.2  22.942.7  25.877 9    135 9 1. 062.2  1. 198. 1             89        10
E. SOIL SCIENCE                               18. 655.2  25.985.2  44.640.3    863.7 1.203.0  2.066. 7             58        18
F. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT                 15.113.1  33.238.2  48.351.3    699.7 1.538.8  2.238.5               69        19
G. INCREMENTAL OPERATION FUNDS               24.402.7  17. 893.9  42. 296 6  1. 129.8   828.4  1.958.2             42        17
Total BASELINE COSTS                            88.511.0 160.151.8 248.662.8  4.097.7 7.414.4 11.512.2               64       100
Physical Contingencmes                       2.283.4  14,295.3  16.578.7    105.7   661.8    767.5               86          7
Price Contingencies                          15.834.2  25.882.2  41.716.4    733.1 1.198.2  1.931. 3              62        17
Total PROJECT COSTS                            106. 628.6 200. 329 3 306. 957.9  4.936.5 9.274.5 14. 211.0           65       123



- 42-                                                       ANNEXI
Table 1
Page 2
Baluchistan
lRupee '0001                   (US$ '0001                        I total
. --.----------------------  -----------------------  7. Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign   Total          Local  Foreign Total    Exchange         Costs
A. REORGANIZATION 8 PREPARATION OF PRI    9,305.6  14.526.6  23.832.2              430.8   672.5 1.103.3             61        19
8. DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES                          2.535.6   4.037.4   6.573.0         117.4   186.9   304.3             61         5
C. HORTICULTURE                                3.233.0  20. 645. 2  23. 878. 1    149.7   955.8 1, 105.5             86        19
0. LIVESTOCK                                    1.458.6  16.897.6  18.356. 1        67.5   782.3   849.8             92        15
E. SOIL SCIENCE                                7.919.2  18. 900.4  26. 819.6    366.6   875.0 1,241.6                70        22
F. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT                  4.649.0  11. 164.9  15.813.9    215.2   516.9   732.1                 71        13
G. INCREMENTAL OPERATION FUNDS                 5,141.0   3,769.8   8.910.8    238.0   174.5   412.5                  42         7
Total BASELINE COSTS                            34.242.0  89. 941.8 124. 183.9  3,585.3 4. 164.0 5.749.3               72        300
Physical Contingencies                          797.3   8.440.3   9.237.6          36.9   390.8   427.7             91         7
Price Contingencies                           6,895.8  15, 187.4  22,083.3    319.3   703.  13022.4                 69        18
Total PROWECT COSTS                             41.935 1 113,569.6 155.504.7  1.941.4 5,257.9 7.199_3                  73       125
(Rupee '0001                    1US$ '0001                       7 Total
--- ------------------------  -----------------------  X Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign   Total          Local  Foreign Total    Exchange    Costs
:=====:::    :::::==:   :=::=: ::::::: :::::::  ::s:::  
A. REORGANIZATION A PREPARATION OF PRM    7.819.1  20.009.5  27.828.6              362.0   926.4 1,288.4             72        18
8. DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES                          2.677.2   4,408.4   7.085.6         123.9   204. 1   328.0            62         5
C. HORTICULiURE                                7,212.0  29.444 3  36.656.3    333.9 1,363.2 1.697. 1                 80        24
0. LIVESTOCK                                   3,355.9  22.482.9  25. 838.8    355.4 1.040.9 1. 196.2                87        17
E. SOIL SCIENCE                                5.563.6   9.985.3  15.548.9    257.6   462.3   719.9                  64        10
F. INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT                  4,527.4  11.109.7  15.637.1    209.6   514.3   723.9                  71        30
G. INCREMENTAL OPERATION FUNDS                13.709.4  10.052.8  23,762.2    634.7   465.4 1,100.1                  42        16
Total BASELINE COSTS                             44.864.5 107,493.0 152.357.5  2.077.1 4.976.5 7.053.6                 71        300
Physical Contingencies                          985.2   9,604.2   10.589.4         45.6   444.6   490.3             91         7
Price Contingencies                           7,457.0  17. 003. 1  24. 460. 1    345.2   787.2 1, 132.4             70        16
..                                                 _       _             -------
Total PROJECT COSTS                              53,306.8 134. 100.2 187,407.0  2,467.9 6,208.3 8.676..                72        123
 :=::  :       =     =      :        -=     ==    ======= = =       :   ::===



ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 3
PARC
lRup.   000'                       (US2 '0001                         * *otal
.I------------------------  -F---------------- --  S foreign   Base
Local    Foreign    Total          tocal  Foreign  Total    Exchange           Costs
s..sflss*  tsS*S S  san,.., a,1A   S..,., I';S*a  ,           ,as               SS4Sl ...2...
A. REORGANIZATION A PREPARAIIOIN OF PRiH    14,245. I  t1.43t.6  24.I676.              659.5   482.9  1. 142.4              42         12
B  HORTICUiTURE                                  I: 7786. 7  39, 116. 6  5.0B93. 3    545.2  1. 811. 0  2. 356. 2           7?         24
C  SOIL SCIENCE                                   6. 815 1  15 700.9  22.518.1         315.5   726.9   1 042.4              70         11
0. INTEGRATED PEST MNAGEMENT                      17. 766 6  26. 464.5  44. 231. I    822.5 1,225.2  2.047.7                60         21
E  INCREMENTAL OPERATION FUNDS                    8.514. 1   3.861.7  12. 375.8        394.2    178.       673.0            31          6
F. SOCIAL SCIENCE                                 6.868.1   11.506.4   18.374.5        318.0   632.7       850.7            63          9
0. RESEARCH FACILITIES DEV.                      30.535.5   8.384.2  38.919.8  1.413.7   388.2  1.801. 8                    22         18
......... ......... ...... ......... .........  ........... ........... ................. ---------  ................
Total BASELINE COSTS                               96.521.3 115.4 6.9 21t.987.2   4.468.6 5.345.6  9.814.2                    54        100
Physieal Contingencies                           5.308.8   10.400.5   1S.709.3        245.8   481.5       727.3            66          7
Prtce  Contingencies                            18.994.2   18.746.0  37.740.2         879.4   867.9   1,747.2              60         18
.... ..  ................_ . ........ ..........  .......  ......... ........ ....... ........  .............. .. 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                120. 824.3 144. 512.4 265. 436. 7  5.693. ? 6. 695.0 12.288. 7             54        125
s:5s;tg=   4;:s,.ssas .s:9S.SS    $*SliSs Sts2842  8sa.,.,2   s8saS,S3      s   4sss9..
Strenathening Provincial Research
IRUe  I0001                        (US$  0001                         I total
*       -   - *---------------  ........................   BForeign               ase
Local     Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign   total        Exchainge     Costs
.. sa.aac   8.3,22sa  stgsa   gls.sas 2... ..st. S....  9..  2.2.2-.  A.S.......  1s
A. LIVESTOCi                            24. 860.1  40.396.0  65.256. 1  1. 150.9 1.l70. 2  3.021. 1               62         28
8. SOIL SCIENCE                            228.7   2.042.2   2.270.9           10.6    94.6 S      OS. I          90           I
C. INCREiENTAL OPERAITION FUNDS          2,683.6   10005.6  12. 689.2        124.2   463.2       587.5           79          5
D. SOCIAL SCIENCE                       58.995.4  49.245.2 108.240.6  2. 731.3 2.279.9   S,Off.1                  45         46
E. RESEARCN FACILITIES 0EV.             29.508.4   16.944. 7  46.453.1  1.366. 1   784.5  2. 150. 6               36         20
.- -- -     --- --      ---- ---   ...........   ................ .. ........  ---------  ------
Totai BASELINE COSTS                     116,276.3 118,633.7 234,910.0  5.383.2 5.492.3 10. 815.5                   51        100
Physical Contingencies                  3.758.2    9.255.5   13,013.7        174.0   428.5       602.5           71          6
Price Continenieos                    27,135.8   17.046.0  44.183.8  1.256.3    789.3  2.045.5                   39         19
......... ---------.. -- -- --      .   _........ ............ ..........---------  .................... ...... .
Total PROJECT COStS                      147. 170.3 144.937. 1 292. 107.4  S8,13.4 6.710. 1 13.523.5                 SO       124
Z225s 2.s ss.s.as.S .s        tsa   ISSSSS, *55*52: SS..SS.. . s- s   *.9.2S2.8s    -.s.Ss



- 44 -                                                         ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 4
Agricultural University Faisalabad (AUF)
IRV" '0001                 IUSS '0001                    I total
-------- ------------------  --   ................ X Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total    Exchange    Costs
.::s:ss:; ;:s=      :::::    ::s:: .::::::             ......: :ss::s   ::::=:=
A. VORTICULtURE                   497.4  1.477. 3  t,974. 6   23.0    68.4    01.4           iS        3
B. LIVESTOCl                    2. 016.5  9.413.4 11. 429.9   93.4   435. 8   529.2          82       i6
C. SOlt SCIENCE                   475.8  1.174.5  1.650.3   22.0    54.4    76.4             71        2
0. SOCIAL SCIENCE              12.627.3 42.5068.3 54.695.6  584.6 1.947.6 2.532.2            77       78
total BASELINE COSIS             IS. 617.0 54. 133.5 69. 750.5  723.0 2. 506.2 3.229.2         78      100
Physical Contingercies            114.4  S.01.S  5.125.9    5.3   232.0   237.3           98         7
Price Contingencies            4.253.0 12.071.5 16.324.5  196.9   668.9   165.8             74       23
-- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -  .  .......    .......    ..... ..  I--------...  ...
Total PROJECT COStS              19.984.4 71.216.5 91.200.9  926.2 3.297. 1 4.222.3            78      131
*S::s=s==:==: :555 :5t:tsS5:    :s   a:: :55255:?::::t:  .S::st::  :S:::3:
Sind Agricultural UniversitY ($AU)
tRupee '0001               (US$ '0001                    Z Total
------------        -------------------------- ..........  foreign   Bass
Local  Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total    Exchwnge    C,sts
Sn::::s ::S:sSS  :s:::::S  5::::  :::::=: 5::::::  :5:55:55s  5: ::,:
A. HORTICULTURE                  497.4  1.477.3  1,974.6   23.0     68.4    91.4            75        3
S. LivESTOCl                    1.896.0 22.447.3 24.343.3   87.8 1.039.2 1.127.0            92       36
C. SOtL SCIENCE                  427.2  1,924.7  2,351.9   19.8   89. 1   108.9             82        3
0. SOCIAL SCIENCE              4,605.5 35. 117.8 39,723.3  213.2 1.625.8 1.839.0            88       68
Total BASELINE COSTS             7.426. 1 60.967. 1 68.393.2  343.8 2.822.6 3. 166.4          89      100
Physical Continqencies           117.9  5.879.3  5.997.2    6.6   272.2   277.6           98         9
Price Contingencies           1.601.6 13.,95.6 15.697.3   83.4   643.3   728.7            69        23
Total PROJECT COSTS              9.34S56  80.742. 1 90.087. 7  432.7 3. 738. 1 4. 170.7      90       132
zs ...= :   s*::::: :.:::::s   :..:. .....:.  t:sts .   :::::s::: ,55:2:



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Estimated Annual Expenditures
Total Project by Implementing Agencies
lolals lincuding CcwIii iiviie%                                                     tota 3  Inc ludig Coil lnganc .es
3Ui4ee  0001                                                                         1055  000l
90191     91/92      92/93      93M9       94/911    S95/9      96/91      total        90/91   911192    92/93    93194    94195    95(96    96/9?    total
A1  PARC                                    30.499 2  88.716 647 569g B34 610 4  31 548 2  31. 320 I 21. 152 6           M26.43b 1  I. 412 0  3. IS2 2  2 20? 3  1.602 3I  460 61. 450 0    979 3 12288 7
8  PIJIIJBII                                27. 81  7  61. 251 S45501 I 58. 039 961. 2750  68. 642 4   6. 517 0 181. 040 6  I 281 7  2.835 7  2 106 5  2. 687 0292941 1 77 92616 5 17.64086
C  11110                                    11.243 461.61 1  40.615 S47.131 649.711i6SOSIl 1  40.824 I   306.953 9                      98 3  2.852 71.880 42.162 02.25j2  2.3524  #890 0W 4.10
0  SAlIUCIISIAk                             IS. 301    28. 202     24. 488 I 76.828 5  23.0907  22. 3b I 2  I. 243 1ISS5.S04 7    708 4  1. 305 7  I. 133 7  I. 242 I  1.059 0   . 034 8         705 3  7. 199 3
I  Noel"e uISUINIRIB  8993   PROVISCi       18.298 03I.S42 A28 010 329.7725  27.2386  29.860 422.584 4 187.40? 0    851 8  1.460 3      296 81.378 4      2610  I9 364  1045 68.616 2
I  stiRiW NISIW   PROVINCI81 IES(568CH      12. 421 060. 181 2  48.271 4  44.29? 8  37.352 9  37. 103 7  32.484 4   292. 107 4    575 0  3.712 I 2 234 S  2.050 6  '.7293t II 7   S1.503 9 13. 523 IS 
G  8CRICUI3RU8I *IVIRSII  FI 381$1B88          456 4  14. 911 4  12.87? 0  14.9"7 2  15.519 4  16.279 2  16.14 2    91. 20 9           21 I    690 6    596 2    694 3        18 5      53 7I    747 9  4.222 3
of SIND ACRICIJIIUR8I UNIVIRSIIT             1.299 2  12.802 2  12.46B8   15.696 0  16.232 0  16.996 7  14.92 5    90.087 7             60 I    592 7    577 3    726 7      7-51 5    786 9    675 6  4 170 7                  4
olal P80.11CC COldS                         t23.432 0 359.251 9 259.804 0 271.,360 S 262.960 3 273.385 2 219.552 6 1.769.742 9  5.714 4 16.612 0 12.028 0 12.583 4 1?. 174 15 32 655 510.164S5  1.932 5
Total Prioject by Components
oeaus Including COiitiiigm ce$                                                     Itotal  Inicluding Contingencies
lRt9e *000I                                                                         [US '0001
90/91     91/92      92/93      93/94      94/95     95/96      96/97      total        90/91   91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    lotal
a  REORChWIlIIIIIi 8 PR1P88811011 of PA     40.525 8  52 062 54? !-SS 5  22. 581 0  14.425 4  15.071 3 315.079 5   203.301 0  1.876 2  2. 410 32 2016 5  1. 045 4    667a8             69? 2    698 I 9. 412 I
S  9189906111: SI0011%                        4.344 I  19.478 2 4.976 7 2. 914 0 2.073 12. 53 4   2. 276?      38.216 2    201 I   9018a    230 4    1249                      960       99 I    1054  1.789 3
C  IIORIICIIIIURI                            216. 207 I 50.7478 640.284 842.010 334.786 836.32 8823.7?23 6 254.087 0  1. 21 332.349 41.865 0t 1944 916105  1. 608   31098 1 13.761 2
0  1  I sI  KAO                              13. 7744  56.384 2  39 334 7  45j.548 034.017 533.593 6  38.876 2 241,226 6    637 7  2.5965   1.821 1  2.108 71.57491 555 2                        823 9I 1116179
I  SlOl  SCIINI.1                            II. 1165 5Sb.318 027 703     27 635 7  22224 027.337 715.094 7 192.429 7    514 7  2607 3  1. 282 61. 2794  1 2804  1. 2866                         698 8  8.908 8
I  111116R8119 MI5  MNGIN818111              fl.893 I 77. 042 2  33.531 8  40.482 I 43. SOO 3  42. #37 9  31.834 9   228.222 3    543 31 .252 01 .459 8  1. 824 2  2.013 91.950 8  1. 43 A 30.565 8                        -
6  INCKINIKIhI OPIRAIIAN 101105               3.418 3  5.687 3  6.2913232.7304  49.74 4  50.32 2  59.327 2 217.522?                     158O2    263 3    291 3  1.561 6  23028  2.145662 7466 10.0705                  0,
H  SOCIAl SCIIUCI                 ~~~~~~~~~4.713 3  35.323 944. 296 8  5.644 I! SI. 365 I 53.2108  48.5580 2788.949 9    220 01 3.35 42. 050 82.390 92. 368872.4635  2.248I  337                           00 '
I  R5S88CM IACIIIIIIS DIV                     7.600 6  56.508 I7 1.8129 4 4.823     8. 024 8 4. 208 6 4. 781 7   105.787 4    35192 2616 3  1. 010 6    223JS                 2794      M198    2214 44.8916           0  3  11
cia3 P80.1111 L.1151                         323. 432 0 359. 25i1 9 259.804 0271. 368 8 282 968 3 273. 365 2 219.SS2 6 1.769.742 9  5, 734 4 16.632 0132.028 0 12. 563 412. 174S123 655 810. 164 581.932 5                  



PunJab by Component
3.3.3s Including Cont ingon  aes                                         lo3.ls Including Cont flgmisn  o
90/91   91/92    92/93    93/94    114/9%    9.9/96    96/9?    l.3.3         90/91   91/92   92/93   93194   94/99   99/96   96/9?   lotal
A  11083i8931A130  8I PUIPARA13 ION Of M3   33.8298 l20.38682 39.593 I6.493134. 436 54.37 7S .008 a68. 2486    947S   934 9   720 3 2988A  207 2 22393 2320  3.19 7
8  OIACIOSIIC SIUDIIS                       1.696 3  9.984 313.986 61.92?78    609 8    60089   839 I12.636 8               785 9   27  3    73 9    70 7    2860     27 8     29 4    98S 0
C  N0833cu11338                             6.94? 9  0,483 4   .1?? S  8.391 16 369 S6.29 0  3.409 S48.6968I   303 I 489 3   3323  3 388   29  6   2896 39I 8  2.292 6
0  IivisIocA                                .1733 1  3.249 6  9.986,6S 9  69S3.3121 93.272 7    876 2  23.706 3             80 3   390 4   2986 271 S   144 9   33 9           40863.097S9
I  SOIL SCIIUCI                             2.124 A134,999 66.433 2  6.199 26.526 3 6.306 3 3.220 949.768 0                 984   692 6   29?7    281 0   302 I 29319 149 32.1189
I  3UhICRARD( PISI PA336NAG331N             3.89 2  6,388 39.360 6  2. 316  133.399S2  2.9102  8.804 6  66.824 If   3199 299 8   424 3  90 2   6389S 99 I1 407 623093 7
G. INCRIN[O38  OPIRIIION FIISS                                          37. 2799 28. 799 9 34 999 9134 999 91 IS. 199 6                             800 0. .333 3 3 60 0  1.6000S 9333 3
loWa  PSOdIC  COSlI                          77.8133 1hi 63253    49j.90 I 158.019 963. 2195068.642 4 96.9So? 0 383. 040 6  3.28?7  2.8139 7 2.31069S2.68? 0 2.929 4 J3. 377 92.616S9 37640 8
Sind by Component
Fo1.3s Including Cons.ng.n.. iss3o831 Including Conti m                                                 pncs
38,4m. 40003                                                             3US$  0u03
90/93    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    05/96    96/97    romal        90/91 91/92   92/93   9.3/4   04/95   99/9    96/9?   total
A  BEORQ8IA3/Al30  S PR(PARAI3O11 Of P833    9.364 3 10.696 3S 9210 2  4.393 12.447 8  2.590 02.138 6  41.44095  433S9 499 2   426 4 203 4 1133 3   339 9 126 813.938 
8  DIAGNOSTIC SIUDIIS                         888 74.726 31 .228 3        938 0    948 2    979 9    612 9   9.1302 3   4313 238 8         SG969   240    29 4    268    28 4        423 4
C  N0Rr3C1111UR8                            4.0009 316.1322 8  7 440 67.967 81 7.27 78.399 7  6.9598298.971 3  3892 1746 4 344S   388 9   37 6   387 0 322i12 133 9
0  11(SIVEIrc                                 763 6  4.3894  9.819 07.8398 . .634 2S9.98? 73.604 633.943 4   353   203 2 2694   3626   260 8 273 3 1669  3.9739
3. soft SCIEIIcI                              732 4  7.398 07.9178 88.76939.473 69.062 64.421 6  97.271 3    98   803 6 3693   409 8 438 6 4396   2047  2.69314
I  1331101GR0 P193  ANAMGIM111              2.036     8.329  8a.94136  3.3799S12.0817II3.3698  9.931 363.4936   933 3694 43140 Sit74                        59996 S9264   4419  2.9311
G  IN1C8133(ENlA  OPERIL1IO1 FUNGS                                      6.4794130. 792 4132.990 912.950 943.3699 529981  499 6   9996 59996i .998 6
303.3 PAOACI COStS                           37.243 4563.616 3 40.617 9 4?. 1333648.133 690.833 7 40.824 3 306.9S7 9  783 2.8652 7. 3O8  4 2.382 0 2.299 2 2.392 413 900134.21310
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0a



Baluchistan by Component
ololsk. 1nclud,ng Con tqncqes                                               totals Includ.in~g Cons -nqncies
lRu. -0001                                                                     SS00
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95          95/96    96/Si       lolal      90/91  91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96  96/97 lolal
A  810868111/AIIOU I 8pRIp8RitaitOfO PEN    7.438 &7. 394 65.184 0 . 3.13 2  1. 919 41.84? 0  1.95 6  28,889 6  3442    342 3 240 0                            1460    89         BS855 90 51.33? 5
S  OI8GuoSlIC 510011$                             076 54.144 2  1.069 3    421 9    446 7    472 7    S000    7.931 4   40 6 191 9    49 5                      19 5    20 7      21 9  23 I   367 2
C  IIORTIICIIIURI                               2.916 04.893 4  9.291 9  5.319 6  4.S53 44.646 8  3148 7  30.76968  t35 0 2265    24S 0   246 3   210 B 215 I 145 e 1.424 5
0  IIVISIocI                                           -  2.5144 46.1038 7t.023 44.691 B  2.640 4                337  73.813S           -   116 4 310 4 3252 22115               131 5      61.1102S
T  salt scIlUCI                                 2.783 I  6.615 7  3.6f0 I  5936 3  5.716 06.000 03.733 7  34.445 0   2S8 8 306 3 1¶69 5   274 8   264 6 277 B 1729 1.594 2
f   MIGRATED P161 MNAGN8o    NIIN             1.289 8  2.639 7  2.579 0  3.609 9  3.463 7  3.815 9  3.142 620.580 8   59 7 122 2   119 4 1¶67 ¶   161 3 176 7 145 5   951 9
6  IUCRIMNINIL OP1881108 FUNDS1                        .                        .364 2  2.273 7  2.128 4  2,728 4   9.094 7                               -    63 2 I¶053   126 31¶26 3   421 I
lotal PEO.fCt COSIS                              15. 301 1 28.202 1 24.488 I 26. 828 5 23. 090 7 2?. 351 2 IS, 243 ¶ ¶55.504 7  706 4 1.305 7 I.133 IF I.242 ¶ 1.069 0 I034 8 705 7 1.IN  3
NW!'P by Component
loll Is Including Cong snpnci.s                                              1o1*1s including CossIingencles
"0/9      91/92    92/93    93/94    94(95         95/86    96/97       total      90/91  91/92   92/93   83/94   94.'95   95/96   96/97  Vaogl
A  AIOSC&WIi6II0U  878878I881III 'of PU         8.463 0 10.202 2  1.776 I  3.022 6  1.216 01. 351 5  1.431 0  33.522 5  39186 472 3   360 0                    139 9     59 1     62 6    66 3 l.2 i 0
6  DiaGuosIIC 511011$                             882 6  4.623 4  1.092 4    446 3    472 4    499 9    528 7   8.545 8   40 9 214 0    508 6                   20 7    2  9    23 I    24 5   395 6
C  NOUIltiCIIIIR                                4.053 0  6.558 27.293 1  0.110 87.370 2  8.089 4  5.904 5  47.439   IS?86 1303 6   337 6   376 3 3412   374 5   2734 2.196 3
0  139161061                                    1.714 4  3.661 7S5.588 07.613 2  5.656 9   .922 7  3.629 933.784 8   79 4 169 5   2586   352 5   261 9 274 2   ¶68 I 1.504I
I  Solt SCIEIICI                                1.734 4  3.975 9  3.209 4  3.271 9  2.918 2  3.065 ¶1I.St7 8  19.690 7   80 3 184 I   148 6   151 5 1¶35 0 141 9    70 3   911 6
I  INIIGRAIIO POSI  ANAG86N1111                 1.550S  6  2.521 5  J.053 3  3 609 9  3.483 7F  3.655 9  2.296 7  20. M7  6   7118 116 7   141 4   167 I   161 3 169 3   ¶08 3   933 9
6                OPCLNIIB  0711810  1180S                                      3.07i  9b6.063 ¶  7.275 8  7.275 B  24. 252 5                                   ¶168 4   280 7 336 6   336 8 1. 22 8
total MJ0116  COSIS                              18.396 031,542 8 26.010 3 29.772 5 21.238 6 29.860 4 22.584 4 187.407 0  851 81.460 3 1.216 8 1.378 4 1.251 01. 362 4 1.045 6 8.678 2
PARC by Component
totals Including Conlingenc.es                                                totals Including Cont ingencies
11141.. '0001                                                                   loss '0001
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94         94/95    95/96    96/97        Total       90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   9S/96  96/97  Total
A  RIORCAWI)8IIOtl 8 PIPARlP8IOIl Of PAN    3.437 I  3.S33 55.826 9  5558S3  4.305 64.54S I  3.943 %   31,1999                        I59 ¶    65 9 2698    257 3   11"  3 2104 182 61.4444
a  I4ORIICIJIIIR(                               8.630 910 255 9 11.819 4 11.683 0  8.750 I 8.975 94.301 6  64 417 8    399 6 474 8 S547 2   540 9 405 I 415 6 199 2  2.982 3
C  Solt $611111                                 2.7S7 3  8.7S98  b.796 2  33053  2.425 3  2.721792.01 3  27.821 0                     1295    4055    26113   ¶53 0        12 3 126 3  93 3I .2883
0  INI(GR8IE0 P1.51 NAN86EIIl                 2.951 4  7.1b? 2  7.791 4  9 770 0 11.085 9 10.3860  8.0535 S57.211 4                 1366   331 8   361 0   452 3   5132   480 8 372 82 2648 7
I  INCRII¶lmlll OP(RQllIID  115110              3.418 ¶  4.478 94 478 9                                                 12.375 8       58 2   207 4   207 4                                         573 0
I  $06181 $1111161                              2.It02  2.7067   4.603 53,960 94.¶688  32.827 6  1.934 623.312 6                      97I 1 25 3   213    18934           1930     1¶77 289 6 1.079349 4
C. 11153686H11 ¶,C¶t¶l¶l  Div                   7.15S4 3 31 784 6  7.247 5       332 9    8125       BS?7 4    903 1T49.092 3    331 2 1471 5   335 5             Is 4    376    39 741 8  2.212 B 
.   .   .   ..   ....   ..   ....   .... .  I ..... .   .  .   ... .   ......   .......   ......   . .....   ... .   .   ...   I......-
l01*1 PROJi1C1 C051$                             30. 499 2 68.736 6 47. 569 8A34. 610 4 31. 548 2 31. 320 I 21. ¶52 6 265.436 7  1.412 03. ¶82 2 2.202 3 I. 602 3 1.460 6 1.450 0979 3 12.288 7



Strengthening Provincial Researcb by Component
lotals lnclud:ng Cooltingenc is                                           lolals InhIoding Conoliogoocues
l&pge  000                                                                 ls I ml 00
.~~~~~~~~~.                      . . .    . . . . . .    ..                      . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  . .     . . .   . . .
SO/Si   91/92    92/93    93/94    94/99    99/96    96/91    total           90/91  91/92   92/93   93/94   94/99   99/96   96/97   toWa
a  tIVtstocI                        9.12362.   ?9.7799  10.8624  8.2431  8.681 07.425 160.313 3422 41.212 9 4928   902 9   3816 401 9   34386  3.?732
O  soil SCIENCE                        761 .6  1. 92.691 6   35 3    67?9                                                                                 -12261
IC 11C316818  opWNItIOU IUNOs               1 28      1.012 3  4.973 I1.5123   1.612 3  1.812 313.4030 6Ss999                       39   2302    639    83 9    83 9    631.8
0SOCIAl SCIIIICE                  2.0089 26. 160 922. 097 7 23.967 022.07 ISI23.299 2  9.3684  139.1  9 96 7 1. 21  2 1.0230 1. 1096 1. 0220 1. 0768   896 7  6.436 0
I  UISEANCII IaCiliIIIs DIV           447 324.2239  14.6819  4. 4"  2  9. 222 43. 391 22  3.878 6  Sa96.699 t 20? 1. 144 6 6795I 2079   2418   199 I   17965  2.624 a
lots) PUJEC? Costs                   12.421 0 W.0.11   2 48.2?1 4 44.292 8 37.392 9 37. 103 7 32.484 4 292. 107 4  S79 0 3.712 I 7.234 8,2.090 61. 729 3 1. 717 8 1. 903 9 13.S23 S
Agricultural University Faisalabad by Component (AUF)
lolsls Incluiding Cant ingeoclise                               tolat, Inc luding Col nge1o911001
l.m 000I                                                     loiss 1 0001
90/91  91/92    92/93    93/94    94/99,   99/96    96/9?    l01al    90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/99 99/96 96/9? fatal
A  IIORIICUIIIIII         9819  t.216 9    601 6    239?                                  2.113 2    2 7  963  2792  10 9                           978a
9  IIVESIOCI             1212  8.069 7  2.023 3  1.6802  I.l96  1.191 1            3976 14.018 9    9 6373 693 7   0 0  52 6  99SI184   649 0
c  SoIlt scIIIcE              1.9I26 4       Al 9      86 I     90 q      96 0    101 I1.982 I          .  to 7   3 6 4 0   42   4 4 4 7    91 a
0  social OCIUNCl       27163  4.104 3 10.170 6 13.5995   14.292 814 992 1I 19.69   73.086 7   12A8 190 0470 9629 4 661 76941I7248 3.383 6
total PROJECt C0SlS       4984 14.917 4 12.877 0 14.9972 19. S 94 16 219 216.1S4 291.200 9   21 1 6906596 2594  37?165753.7 747.9 4.222 3
Sind Agricultural University bY Component (SALU)
lotals Including Cool Ingenciso                                  lotals Including Cooltinopcies
lRsee * 000l                                                      Iuss *0001
90/91   91/92    92/93    93/94    94/9%    99/96    96/97    101*1    90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/99 99/96 96/97 tota
A  NORIICUIIURI                   1. 216      669       2357                                213             9363  30 6  10 9               .          978S
0  1171510C        3199  8.007  3.536-          s.269   .9279   I74           2.0 13.US66   14 83704177 6243 9 2559267681347?1.46591 
C  Soil SCIENtI            702 9  1.232 6    9468 a      71 7     798       8o00       4 2  2.794 1   329 SS7 I 29 3   3 3 39S 3 7 39 129 4
0  social SCISUCE          276 3  2.352 0  7.4259010. 121 0 10.628 3 t1. 131 711.S999993.933 8   12 8 108 9343 7 468 6492 0919 493702.478 4
lotal PSOJICI CosfS        I.299 2 12.802 2 12.4688 15.696 016.232 0 16.996 7 14.5928A90.087 7 690 I 992 7 97? 3 726 791 ? 9 5786 96T9.6 4.170 7



- 49 -                       ANNEX I
Table 3
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year              IDA              Cumulative          Percent of
and Ouarter           Disbursements        Disbursements      Credit Disbursed
--------- (US$ million) ---------            ()
FY91 - 1                     -                      -                   -
- 2                     4.0                   4.0                 7
- 3                     -                     4.0                 7
- 4                     -                     4.0                 7
FY92 - 1                     0.5                   4.5                  8
- 2                     0.5                   5.0                 9
- 3                     1.0                   6.0                10
- 4                     1.0                   7.0                12
FY93 - 1                     1.5                   8.5                 15
- 2                     1.5                  10.0                17
- 3                     2.0                  12.0                21
- 4                     2.0                  14.0                24
FY94 - 1                     2.5                  16.5                 29
- 2                     2.5                  19.0                33
- 3                     3.0                  22.0                38
- 4                     3.0                  25.0                44
FY95   1                     3.0                  28.0                49
- 2                     3.0                  31.0                54
- 3                     3.0                  34.0                59
- 4                     3.0                  37.0                65
FY96 - 1                     2.5                  39.5                 69
- 2                     2.5                  42.0                73
- 3                     2.0                  44.0                77
- 4                     2.0                  46.0                80
FY97 - 1                     2.0                  48.0                 84
- 2                     2.0                  50.0                87
- 3                     1.5                  51.5                90
- 4                     1.5                  53.0                92
FY98 - 1                     1.5                  54.5                 95
- 2                     1.3                  55.8                97
- 3                     1.0                  56.8                99
- 4                     0.5                  57.3               100
L/ Initial deposits into Special Accounts.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Table 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Progosed Allocation of Credit Funds
(US$ million)
Credit
Total LI     Foreign        Amount
1.  Civil Works La
(a) PARC                                3.1            0.6            1.9
(b) Punjab                              0.5            0.1            0.3
(c) Sind                                0.4            0.1            0.2
(d) NWFP                                0.05           0.01           0.03
*              (e) Baluchistan                         0.01                          0.006
Subtotal                            4.06           0.81           2.436
2.  Motorcycles, Machinery, Equipment
Furniture. Books & Journals LI
(a) PARC                                2.6            2.2            2.3
(b) Punjab                              2.6            2.2            2.3
(c) Sind                                1.6            1.4            1.4
(d) NWFP                                0.8            0.6            0.7
(e) Baluchistan                         0.7            0.5            0.6
Subtotal                            8.3                           7.3
3. Training & Collaborative Research A4
(a) PARC                               10.4            9.8           10.4
(b) Punjab                              3.6            3.5            3.6
(c) Sind                                4.1            3.9            4.1
(d) NWFP                                3.0            2.8            3.0
(e) Baluchistan                         2.8            2.6            2.8
Subtotal                           23.9           22.6           23.9
4.  Technical Assistance L5
(a) PARC                                2.1            1.9            1.7
(b) Punjab                              1.7            1.6            1.4
(c) Sind                                1.6            1.4            1.3
(d) NWFP                                1.4            1.2            1.1
(e) Baluchistan                         1.1            0.9            0.9
Subtot1.11                          1_2.           LAQ           L



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 2
Credit
Total /1     Foreign        Amount
5.  Incremental Research
Operating Costs       /6
(a) PARC                                 7.3            2.2           4.4
(b) Punjat                               5.5            1.7            3.3
(c) Sind                                 2.9            0.9            1.7
(d) NWFP                                 1.9            0.6            1.1
(e) Baluchistan                          0.9            0.3           0.6
Subtotal                            18.5            5.7          11.1
6. Unallocated
Contingencies:                         4.
(a) PARC                               4.2           3.2            2.5
(b) Punjab                             1.7            1.0           1.3
(c) Sind                               1.7           1.5            1.2
(d) NWFP                               0.9           0.7            0.67
(e) Baluchistan                        0.9           0.9            0.494
Other:                                 9.84           1.49           -
Subtotal                         19.24           8.79           6.164
Total                             81.9          51.8           57.3
/1 The amounts for the items No.1 to No.5 are the base costs plus 70X of
price contingencies.
22 Credit disbursements would be 60Z of expenditures.
/3  Credit disbursement3 would be 100% of foreign exchange cost; 100% of the
ex-factory cost, if manufactured locally; and 60% of cost if imported and
purchased locally.
/L4 Credit disbursements would be 100% of total expenditures.
/5  Credit disbursements would be 80% of total expenditures.
Lk  Credit disbursements would be 80% till US$5.3 million disbursed, then 60%
until US$9.3 million disbursed, then 40% for the remainder.
/1  This includes physical tontingencies plus the remaining price
contingencies for items No.1 to No.5.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
ACRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Introduction
1.          Agricultural research in Pakistan has its origins in the days
prior to Independence (1947) when Punjab Province had a viable agricultural
College ard Research Institute, a Veterinary College at Lahore, and Sind
Province had research activities extending back some 60 years. Since
Independence, provincial departments of agriculture, livestock, fisheries,
forestry and irrigation have developed their own research institutes and
facilities with 36 separate units in Punjab, 19 in Sind, 11 in NWFP, and 8 in
Baluchistan. Agricultural Research at the federal level has also expanded to
24 entities and 13 Agricultural Universities and Colleges, also carry on some
research (Table 1).
2.          Several teams of international and national scientists have
reviewed the agricultural research system in Pakistan for the purpose of
recommending ways of strengthening its operations. One of the most definitive
studies was conducted in late 1979 by a Joint World Bank, USAID, CIDA, FAO and
Australian Development Assistance Bureau mission which resulted in the May 21,
1980 World Bank document (2961-PAK) "Pakistan Agricultural Research Sub-sector
Review". It highlighted the complexities of conducting agricultural research
where the Pakistani Constitution mandates responsibility for agriculture to
the provinces so that most adaptive and applied agricultural research is
operated and controlled at the provincial levels. Federal Government
responsibility has been mainly for long term research and for coordination,
planning and high level manpower training. It has resulted in a fragmented
research structure with minimal interprovincial cooperation for research
programs, no accountability of resources or effective monitoring of research
progress. Furthermore, effective linkages with extension is lacking and
researchers have limited awareness of farmers' problems with little on-farm
research to verify trials on research stations.
3.          Tne study recommended, inter alia, that the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council (PARC) should become a truly autonomous body with major
responsibilities for coordination of all federal and provincial funded
agricultural research. Furthermore, that PARC in cooperation with the
provinces should define national agricultural research objectives and
priorities.
4.          External Supgort to Agricultural Research.  These recommendations,
as well as several others, were incorporated into the first World
Bank-assisted Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1158-PAK) ($40.OM) which
became effective in 1982 and ended in December, 1987. It emphasized
strengthening PARC through increasing autonomy and improved permanent staff
benefits to attract and retain qualified scientists.  It also fostered an
increased coordination role for PARC in new research programs receiving



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
federal support including crop varietal yield trials and ongoing national
coordinated research projects and collaborative research programs. Funds were
made available to build a PARC headquarters secretariat, developing the
research station at the National Agricultural Research Center (NARC), training
of staff to M.Sc. and Ph.D levels, and technical assistance.
5.          The first agricultural research project has assisted in developing
PARC into a viable natior.al agricultural research center with excellent
headquarters and NARC station facilities, and the training of staff abroad for
about 97 Ph.Ds and 18 M.Scs. The establishment of PARC as a completely
autonomous organization in December 1981 and a scheme of scientific service
conducive to retaining highly qualified staff, improved its morale and
provided for adequate operational funding of scientists. Research facilities
have also been constructed at the Agricultural Universities in Sind and Punjab
and Agricultural Economic Research Units established at Research Institutes in
Punjab, Sind, Northwest Frontier and at NARC and another is underway in
Baluchistan. PARC has also contracted research out to provincial research
institutes, and has funded 24 subprojects.
6.          Other external donors have provided support to develop Pakistan's
agricultural research capability, especially USAID. In their agriculture
research project ($25.0 million) which ended in 1985, USAID provided support
mainly for strengthening the research capability of NARC with some assistance
to the provinces. In the 1986-1990 Management of Agricultural Research and
Technology (MART-$30.0 m) project, USAID is assisting PARC to create a unified
and integrated national system for effective planning and management of
agricultural research and transmission of improved technology to Pakistani
farmers. USAID, through Public Law 480, has further provided some $14.5 m to
PARC for various research projects. USAID also is assisting in the
Transformation and Integration of the Provincial Agriculture Network
(TIPAN-$40.0 m) Project in the Northwest Frontier Province (NWFP) for
integrating teaching, research and outreach of the Agricultural University of
NWFP. It has led to the merging of the provincial agricultural research
institutes with the University. The Canadian International and Development
Assistance (CIDA) provides $11.0 m to PARC and NARC for Barani Agricultural
Research and Development in rainfed areas. Italy has also provided $10.0
million to PARC to conduct large scale proven production packages in three
farming localities mainly through the effective use of farm machinery.
7.          Constraints.  The substantial inputs from GOP with external
multilateral and bilateral assistance has gone far to establish a viable
federal agricultural research system through PARC and NARC in facilities,
equipment and especially in creating a cadre of highly trained scientists.
However, such is not the case at the provincial level, and it is clear that if
Pakistan is to have an effective agricultural research service to benefit most
of its farmers, the provincial agricultural research services need to be
strengthened. This was clearly enunciated in several reviews including the
1979 study and the 1983 USAID review of its first research projeLt, and has
become increasingly more evident in the intervening years. Some of the major
constraints in the provincial agricultural research systems are:



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(1)   insufficient training and research qualifications of many of its
scientists;
(2)   inadequate operating funds to conduct meaningful research;
(3)   rigidities of the research service schemes since they are tied
into provincial government civil service rules which rewards
seniority and not merit with concomitant low morale of scientific
staff;
(4)   insufficient planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation of
research pertinent to solving farmers' problems;
(5)   little on-farm research to determine farming systems in practice
and research to remedy productivity problems. An example of the
type of research which needs to be expanded is illustrated in the
PARC/CIMMYT collaborative programs 1986 research paper "Increasing
Wheat Productivity in the Context of Pakistan's Irrigated Cropping
Systems - A View from the Farmers' Field". It demonstrated the
need for improved management practices to exploit the genetic
potential of the planted varieties especially in cultivation
practices and water management; and
(6)   ineffective linkages with the extension services for effec'ive
transmission of demonstrated impzoved technology to farmers.
B. Present Status Research Organization. Management. and Financing
8.          Sugnort to Agricultural Research.  The Government of Pakistan has
recognized the importance of agriculture in the economy, and the necessity to
invest in research to continually improve agricultural productivity so as to
keep up with population growth and export needs, while maintaining or
improving the land and water resource base. In 1980/81 the rate of investment
in agricultural research was about 0.5% of AGDP (Review of Agricultural
Research Institutes in Pakistan). By 1983/84 this rate had increased to about
0.8% of A(JP, reflecting an increase in emphasis on agricultural research.
The increase in allowances to scientists in July 1987, also points to the
continuing supportive policy to the role of science and research in national
development.
9.          Research Institutions.  The agricultural research system in
Pakistan is very complex. The National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP)
(1986) complied a list (Table 1) of research institutions dealing with
agricultural research and allied subjects based on the results from two major
surveys.'/ This shows a total of 101 research institutes or stations, some of
which have substations in addition, however at least 18 of those listed had
less than five research staff in 1984. No routinely updated data base is
Review of Agricultural Research Institutions in Pakistan, Agricultural
Research Division, Islamabad, 1984.
Agricultural Research Manpower Survey, PARC, Islamabad 1985.



- 55 -
ANNIE 2
Page 4
currently maintained, however there are estimated to be about 100 significant
research groups. The 1984 review showed 3,431 research scientists, of grade
NPS 16 and above, distributed around these stations, in 19 different
Ministries, Departments or Commissions as indicated below:
Ministries      Number of          Number of
Departments     Institutions       Scientists
Location                     Commissions     or Stations        June 1984
Federal                          5               24               1,176
Punjab                           4               36                 866
Sind                             3               '9                 324
NWFP                             2               11                 273
Baluchistan                      2                8                 103
Agricultural Universities        3                3                 689
Total                  19             101                3,431
Source: Agricultural Research Manpower Survey, 1985; and National Agriculture
Research Plan, 1986.
10.       Structure and Style of Management.  The federal research
institutions such as those of PARC, the Atomic Energy Commission and the
Pakistan Central Cotton Committee PCCC, have independent budgets, have
reasonable independence in operations, the staff have a scientific scheme of
service and the possibilities of a collegial style of management focused
primarily on the research task.
11.       The provincial research institutions are, in general, part of
development departments responsible for Agriculture, For6stry, Livestock,
Fisheries, Irrigation, etc., oriented primarily to development and production.
The research institutions operate under hierarchical, in-line control from the
Head of the Department, within department budgets, and with a scheme of
service that relates to hierarchical values of years of experience, number of
staff supervised and resources controlled, rather than research capabilities
and performance, which may not involve much administrative responsibility.
Many research scientists are dispirited with reported shortages and delays in
operational funding for research also contributing to low morale.
12.       The Universities which are funded federally under the Ministry of
Education fall between these two patterns in that a collegiate style of
management, appropriate to research, is understood, and the role and nature of
research well appreciated. Moreover, qualifications for recruitment are
similar for research and teaching. However, the teaching function is given
the highest priority, and research is not regarded as the primary task of



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
staff even though it may play a significant part in assessment for promotion.
In the North West frontier Province a major step has been taken recently in
the organization of research, in that the provincial research service has been
merged with the Agricultural University but funds for the research institutes
come from Provincial resources.
13.       Research Coordination.  The coordination of agricultural research
activities is a major task of management.  At Federal level, PARC is assigned
this responsibility.  Its central mechanism is the Board of Governors with
representation from all the major research organizations, and its principal
operational wings for coordination are the four divisions of Crop Sciences,
Animal Sciences, Natural Resources, and Social Sciences with support from the
Multi-Divisional Services. PARC has coordinated the production of the
National Agricultural Research Plan (1986) which sets out the perspective for
the contribution of research to development, and defines broad goals and
objectives for future research ard component research programs to overcome
major constraints to increased productivity. The National Coordinated
Research Programs and their associated Technical Committees are also valuable
in coordinating research nationwide on major national commodities and
production factors.
14.       It is also recognized that there is a need to coordinate research at
the provincial level, especially amongst the Universities and the Provincial
Research Institutes. However, the only active body has been the Punjab
Agricultural Research Coordination Board, which has a very large membership
under the chairmanship of the Vice Chancellor of the University of
Agriculture, Faisalabad. Without the equivalent executive arms of PARC, the
PRCB has been unable as yet to be very effective in spanning the wide range of
functions from setting broad priorities for the province, to detailed
examination of research projects for support. In NWFP the merger between the
research service and the Agricultural University should help ensure close
coordination of research, but again, appropriate authorized bodies will be
needed at different levels to ensure integrated programming.
15.       Research Programming.  The process of research programming varies
substantially amongst institutions. Generally, proposals for experiments and
studies are put forward from individuals and sections in response to
suggestions from section and divisional leaders. These are then reviewed in
the disciplinary section, and are forwarded for scrutiny and approval at a
senior inter-departmental group. The aggregated program is finally approved
by the Director or Director-General and may or may not require clearance from
a higher board. The program is liable to be tr'mmed if expected budgets do
not materialize, but such reductions are often not documented. No institution
visited required the preparation of budgets for experiments in the annual
program. However, if research activities have to be financed through special
project funding, then details of the project and its cost requirements have to
be submitted and approved at peer group review boards.
16.       Source of Finance.  Most financing of research operations at
institutes comes from government resources through the parent ministry or
organization. A significant amount of research funding also comes from major
projects, such as ARP I and BARD, and, in the past, PL 480 funds. All



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
research organizations lack sufficient funds for carrying out research and for
transport to work off main stations, but the facilities of farms, buildings
and equipment appear to be reasonably adequate in comparison with operational
funding. Most provincial institutions in line Departments experience delays
in release of funds and of arbitrary cuts in funding during the year, which
makes research planning difficult. Especially in the provincial research
institutions, low level of funds for research operational activities severely
constrained the effectiveness and efficiency of trained research scientists.
17.       Overall Funding.  In 1983/84 the total investment in agricultural
research was PRs 786 million, which was about 0.21% of GDP, or 0.82X of
Agricultural GDP which is the more usually quoted index. A recent analysis of
other developing and developed countries investment in agricultural research
is shown in Table 2. It shows that Pakistan was below the average rate of
investment for 52 developing countries in 1983/84, but not by much. However,
it was well behind the investment rate for developed countries (even those
where agriculture is not very important in the economy), and below the general
recommendation of the World Bank of a rate of 1% AGDP as soon as possible, and
2% AGDP by 1995. Clearly there would appear to be room for improvement in the
overall rate of investment in agricultural research for the agricultural
sector, especially in investment per scientist.
18.      Oterational Funding of Research.  Summary information from the
Manpower Survey of 1983/84 is given in Table 3, and is presented in Table 4 in
terms of expenditure per researcher, and for selected research institutions in
Table 5.
19.       The overall figure per scientist includes salary and allowances
(scientist, technical and administrative support staff, and labor); capital
development; and operational funding for research (materials, transportation,
utilities, rent of buildings, vehicle and machinery maintenance,
communications, replacement of small-scale and consumable equipment, share of
maintenance of buildings, roads and farms, etc.). There is no distinction
made between station overheads, and individual research activity expenses or
variable costs.
20.       The overall national average expenditure per scientist of PRs
229,000 (US$17,000) p.a. in 1983/84 was heavily influenced by relatively high
capital and development project funding through federal institutions. From
the non-development budget (i.e. regular or recurrent budget) alone, the
expenditure rate was only PRs 111,000 (US$8,200) per scientist p.a. Both
figures were lifted substantially by the relatively high level of vacancies
against sanctioned positions: if all positions had been filled, the total and
non-development rates would have fallen to PRs 173,000 (US$12,800) and
PRs 84,000 (US$6,200) respectively. To attempt to interpret these figures,
three comparisons can be made: internally in cross-comparison among
institutions; externally with other countries; and intrinsically, in relation
to costs of minimal effective research activities.
21.       Internal.  There is considerable variation amongst institutions.
Some are well below the average. The reasonably (but not excessively) well
equipped and supported research centers at Dokri, and the Nuclear Institute



- 58 -
ANEXnE 2
Page 7
for Food and Agriculture (NIFA), Tarnab have more than twice the rate of
non-development expenditure per scientist than any of the provincial
Agricultural Research Institutes (ARIs). This measis a very considerable
difference in operational funds after scientists' salaries are deducted.
22.       External.  An unpublished analysis of 1980 data by Oram and Bindlish
is the most appropriate comparison currently available, and comparative
information for 67 countries is given in Table 2. The details may not be
precise due to some differences in pattern of returns, but it is clear that in
terms of average expenditure per scientist, in 1980, Pakistan, at US$9,000
p.a., was in the bottom five out of 67 countries. Moreover, the overall
average level at US$50,600 per scientist was over five times the level in
Pakistan, and in only 14 countries was the level less than US$20,000.  Salary
scales differ considerably from country to country and have a large effect,
but many of the costs of research operations are international - chemicals,
fertilizers, equipment, transport, training, etc.  The conclusion cannot be
avoided that in 1980 Pakistan was funding agricultural research scientists at
a much lower level than that which most developing countries considered
appropriate.
23.       More recent data show an improvement since 1980, reflecting the
improved investment in research in Pakistan in recent years. The latest
figures from the ISNAR/IFARD review for nearby Asian Countries are given in
Table 6. In comparison with Table 2, they suggest India may have slipped back
while Pakistan has improved. However, both are still very low compared to
Indonesia and most other African and Latin American countries (Table 2),
especially since half of the U$17,000 of expenditure per scientist in Pakistan
in 1984 is due to capital and project development funding.
24.       Intrinsic.  It is also possible to make an estimate of the basic
requirement for funding an agricultural research scientist from some idea of
research input costs and operational needs. The conclusion is that US$8,000
per research scientist would be a modest level of operational funding in 1984.
Actual average levels are about US$3,000.
25.       Ratio of Salaries to Operational Punds.  A commonly used mechanism
for estimating the level of operational funds for research, is the ratio of
salaries to operational funds. In the USA it was calculated some years ago,
that a ratio of about 70X on salaries to about 30X on operational expenditure
was optimal - for USA conditions. In translating this ratio elsewhere, it is
important to note that while salary levels may drop dramatically, many of the
costs of operational materials do not: unit costs of equipment, petrol,
vehicles, chemicals, in fact, rise. Allowing that some operational costs are
indeed lower (labor etc.), a reasonable target ratio of salaries to
operational funds in Pakistan might have been 40:60, in 1984.
26.       A more specific analysis has been done for the non-development
budgets for some of the research institutes of PARC for the period 1985 to
1988. Details are given in Table 7 (expressed in 1987 US dollars for purposes
of comparison with information from other countries). For the PARC research
institutes, the budgeted level of funding for salaries (of about US$7,000
p.a.) would cover roughly a research scientist, one technical support staff



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
and one administrative or general support staff. The level of funding for
carrying out research operations is targeted at about US$3-4,000 per
researcher, (although budget allocation tended to be dropping below US$3,000
per researcher in 1987/88). This staffing pattern, April 1987 salary scales
and level of operational support leads to a ratio of salaries to operational
funding of about 60:40. At current salary scales November 1987 (after the
recent increase the salary complement is nearer US$10,000) the ratio is nearer
75:25.
27.       Ogerational Funding for Agricultural Research in some other
Developing Countries. A general review (by Rene Devred, ISNAR (unpublished))
includes the following specific cases:
(a) Peru, 1931: WB project supporting agricultural research allocated
operational funding per researcher at US$9,500 p.a. (1981 dollars).
(b) Laos, 1987: recent planning is using US$11,000 p.a. per researcher
for operational funds.
(c)  Cameroon, 1985-87: operational funding ranges from US$12,000 to
US$20,000 p.a. per researcher.
(d) Tunisia, 1985: US$8,860 p.a. per scientist, plus US$8,000 p.a. for
operational costs.
28.       Research Manpower Supply.  Recruitment of staff at graduate level
from the Universities is not a serious problem. Some 50X of the research
staff have had post graduate training to master's level (2,181 out of 3,431 in
June 1984). However, a large number (951 in 1984) in research positions have
only a bachelor's degree with no formal training in research methodology. The
capacity in-country for specialist research development to doctorate level is
very limited, and overseas training, opportunities are limited. The number of
research and teaching staff trained to PhD level by 1984 was only 299, half of
whom were in the Universities. A substantial increase in this number has
however been made possible through ARP I and MART projects.
29.       Research Planning and Programming.  Determining a national or
provincial agricultural research plan is a three stage sequential process:
(a) determining broad research priorities and allocating resources to major
commodities, factors of production, and/or areas, etc. ("commodities");
(b) within a "commodity" priority allocation, at institution level, deciding
on sub-allocations to high priority technical research thrusts to reduce major
constraints to production, and developing a long range plan involving planning
of manpower development and of large physical resources, and finally; (c) at
research station level, deciding which are the most urgent and relevant
experiments and studies to be done in the near future with available manpower
and financial resources to make progress in the plan. The three stages
require different groups of different people, using different criteria to
reach conclusions, hopefully with a common thread of values running
throughout. A discussion of the process is noted in the Project File B.1,
Annex 2, Appendix 2.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9
30.       Broad Priority Setting for Commodities.  The major exercise,
organized by PARC, in producing a National Agricultural Research Plan, with
extensive interaction amongst institutions, has been successful in integrating
provincial and national broad priorities. However, the priorities for
long-term research thrusts are not quantified by allocations in the NARP: it
is not apparent whether a research program can have 2 or 20 researchers
assigned to it; and therefore, for instance, what kind of specialist training
or recruitment can be planned. Nor is there any chance of quantification
possible at this long-term planning stage without some prior quantification of
priorities (and inferred allocation) amongst "commodities" at a higher level
of decision than research institutions.
31.       In the absence of a unified federal and provincial service, there
can be no completely hierarchical, authoritative allocations, and "agreed
guidelines" might be a more appropriate target, to give some quantitative
basis for long-range planning. The most appropriate body for reaching such
quantified guidelines on priorities for "commodity" research is the Board of
Governors of PARC. It has a broad and responsible membership of research
users with high level political, financial and development interests, together
with technical and educational insights on possibilities and constraints for
research. The Board would also be the most appropriate body to present the
national case for a policy for an appropriate rate of investment in research
for the agricultural sector.
32.       The Board, given this mandate, would need to be serviced with
appropriate information from PARC to help it reach decisions. A substantial
amount of information is already available from the work of preparing NARP.
However, an additional, regular, source of information frcm analysis of the
ongoing national needs and opportunities in agriculture should be available to
the Board through a permanent servicing committee. Such information could
usefully be presented formally and objectively on the basis of a 'weighted
criteria" method for guiding decisions on research priorities for commodities.
33.       National p-:iorities will guide the PARC Board of Governors in
reaching priorities for research, but the provinces will have their own
priorities to guide their own provincial allocations for research within
national guidelines. They will therefore need equivalent bodies for reaching
such broad priority decisions. If a merging of University and provincial
research components into an autonomous research service took place, then a
Research Council similar to that proposed in NWFP would be appropriate.
Otherwise a reorganization of provincial research with sufficient autonomy
similar to PARC would be required. The precise form of mechanism is secondary
to the importance of the function being carried out.
34.       Long-Term Planning.  The NARP, in its analysis of objectives and
programs, has given a strong lead for long-term planning in research
institutions and PARC has instituted strategic Technical Committees to cover
major research areas. Most organizations have appropriate groups of Heads of
Departments meeting to advise the Director-General on technical research
opportunities and constraints for long-term planning. However, the absence of
quantified priority guidelines from a policy Board makes realistic planning
difficult: it is especially difficult when trying to arrive at far-reaching



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10
decisions on what manpower resources should be allocated for training in
specialized fields to meet research needs in the longer term. Rates of
increase of research staff must be related closely to the likely rates of
funding for research, if operational funds per scientist are to reach levels
for efficient performance.
35.       The key resource for long-term research planning is trained
manpower. It is important therefore that there should be complete inventories
of research manpower at institution, provincial and national levels.
Previously this was a difficult task, but with computers, it is a very much
easier process and a computerized register of research manpower is a powerful
management tool for long-term planning of research. This responsibility has
recently been allocated within PARC to the Planning Division.
36.       Short-Term Programming.  Procedures for deciding on short-term
programs and proposals for experiments and studies were found to be very
diverse in the research institutions. An important criterion at this level of
decision is the intellectual satisfaction of the researcher. Procedures range
from tacit immediate acceptance of a researcher's proposals, to discussion in
disciplinary groups, to discussion in commodity-based interdisciplinary
groups. Only a few institutions acknowledged that information from AERUs on
the conditions of the farmers' enterprises influenced their choice of
treatments or experiments. A few scientists protested their independence to
choose experiments that they thought most interesting and were related to the
major crops. Such a range of procedures inevitably leads to inconsistency of
standards in research proposals and projects or sub-projects.
37.       It is therefore recommended that in future to standardize criterion
all proposals for experiments and studies should be discussed in detail at
interdisciplinary program committees at a relatively low level of management,
addressing issues of relevance and quality. Management should require a
minimum number of disciplines to be represented in each committee, with
someone representing, as a proxy, the interests of the farmer, and another,
the interests of the extension service. The socio-economists cannot, at
present, be very well represented as their numbers are small indeed.
38.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A concommitant element of good
management after program determination is the arrangement for monitoring and
evaluation of the program when it is implemented. There has always been a
considerable amount of informal monitoring and evaluation of agricultural
research at various levels in Pakistan, but formal monitoring has tended to be
limited to the requirements of external donors who have supported research
projects. For instance, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has maintained
quarterly accounts of physical and financial progress in components of ARP I,
and systematic reports of technical research progress have also been made.
The NAC preliminary recommendations call for more systematic evaluation of
research performance as an intrinsic part of research management. The
Pakistan Agricultural Research council (PARC) is now resolved to introduce
more formal monitoring and evaluation procedures to provide a better
management information service that will facilitate better implementation of
ongoing projects, and will help policy makers, planners and research managers
to plan, design and implement sound and productive projects to utilize scarce



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Page 11
resources more efficiently. Presently, PARC lacks a proper system of
monitoring and evaluation, and lack of skilled manpower in this specialized
field has resulted in underdevelopment of this area at PARC, and at the
national level in general and also in the provinces. Thus there is a clear
need to establish Mo-itoring and Evaluation capabilities at both the national
and provincial levels.
39.       Research Environment.  Efficient and effective agricultural research
requires creative and operating environment different from that of
development, administrative, and regulatory Departments. Research does best
under a collegiate style of management rather than a hierarchical style. The
intrinsic uncertainty in research requires more flexibility in financial
control (over relatively small amounts, and fully within national accounting
rules) than is usually encountered in a development ministry bureaucracy.
Because much of operational expenditure is within the research institutes
themselves, the ratio of operational funds for research to salaries is usua]ly
much higher than for advisory, developmental or administrative activities.
Furthermore, criteria for performance in research and its general system of
values are very different from those in administrative, hierarchical
organizations. On all these grounds, there is a case for having a distinct
management and financial system for agricultural research.
40.       In a typical industrial enterprise, the management style of the
innovative R&D Division is quite different from the management style of the
production and sales divisions. The latter are closely planned and controlled
and have a hierarchical style of management. The planning in an R&D division
is much more flexible, and the management style for the research programs is
essentially collegiate, involving a "first amongst equals" approach that
reflects the reality that in their own specialist fields, low level
researchers often have more detailed knowledge than their director. Many
countries have recognized this essential difference ar.d have set up autonomous
research organizations with their own budget, but often still within the
ministry responsible for agriculture (e.g. UK, India, Kenya, Ghana, Indonesia,
Argentina, Zimbabwe, etc.). Others have merged large elements of the national
research system within Universities because of the common collegiate style of
management, value systems, and similar requirements in qualifications (e.g.
USA, Nigeria, Philippines, India). They usually also have an appropriate
scheme of service for staff, with reward related to research performance
rather than, or as well as, level of hierarchical responsibility for funds and
supervision of personnel. In some cases, different methods have been used
within a country (e.g. USA, India). Pakistan has currently gone part of the
way in establishing automous research regimes in PARC and its institutes, and
in Nuclear and other Federal research institutes; while in NWFP the provincial
agricultural research has beern taken into the Agricultural University
governance system.
41.       However, a large part of agricultural research in the other
provinces still resides in the hierarchical line control in the Agriculture,
Livestock, Forestry, and Fisheries Departments, with all of their budgetary,
organizational and - omotional procedures, that might be appropriate for
development activities, but which reduce research efficiency. It has been
pointed out earlier than rates of funding for research operation are very low.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12
However, at least the Federal research institutes have striven to maintain a
ratio of salaries to operation funds of 60:40. In provincial research
institution the Departments, the ratio is often nearer 80:20 which may be
appropriate for administrative or extension jobs but, as discussed earlier, it
is not adequate for efficient research. A different concept of funding levels
for research operations is necessary which can best be established in a
semi-autonomous institution with its own budget and financial control.
42.       The case for changing the status of the proviacial research
institutions into more independent organizations with their own budget.
administrative, and recruitment procedures and schemes of service seems very
strong, considering experience in other countries and within Pakistan. The
case for the development departments maintaining a very firm influence on the
research program is also strong as it is essential for the program to be
focused on develc,ment objectives. However, this does not imply standardized
bureaucratic control over other research operations. An appropriate structure
or mechanism is essential to improve the research environment of the
researchers in the provincial researrn institutions.
C. Government Policy on Agricultural Research
Oreanization and Management
43.       The National Commission of Agriculture (NCA) in its Report of March
1988, in Chapter 16 on Agricultural Research, Extension and Education clearly
recognizes and enunciates the constraints on organization and management of
agricultural research in Pakistan as described above. They note that most
provincial and federal agricultural research institutes are subject to rigid
government administrative and financial controls. They indicate that these
rigidities result in delay and lack of flexibility which greatly reduce their
effectiveness. They also recognize weaknesses in the organizational structure
of research institutions and that most lack planning, resource allocation,
monitoring and evaluation capabilities. The Commission presents four
recommendations for improving agricultural research efficiency as follows:
(1) "Agricultural Research Institutions should be given greater autonomy
in staff recruitment and promotion as well as financial management
to provide flexibility required for their effective operation and
enable them to respond to emergent needs. A pattern of
administration similar to the one followed by Universities or
autonomous bodies like PARC and Agriculture Prices Commission should
be adopted. There should be sufficient delegation of powers down
the lina for efficient operation";
(2)  "the organized structure of the Institutions should be reviewed in
order to make them more compact by eliminating unnecessary dichotomy
of sections or disciplines";
(3)  "with each institute there should be an effective mechanism for
planning, resource allocation and monitoring and evaluation of
research"; and



- 64 -
ANNEX2
Page 13
(4) as part of the overall research system, provision should be made for
external program and management reviews of all major institutions,
every five years, with the participation of national and
international scientists of repute. The review should be conducted
in relation to the targets and goals set for research output".
44.       It is therefore evident from the information presented in paras
7-42, that the ARP-II need to emphasize the strengthening of the provincial
agricultural research systems in organization and management. Discussions
with government officials at the federal and provincial levels have nearly
unanimously indicated top priority for support to provincial agricultural
research systems.
D. The ARP-II Project - Organization and Management
45.       Organization.  Concomitant with Government of Pakistan policy
enunciated in the 1988 NCA Report, the project would foster reorganization and
strengthening of agricultural research in the provinces. Reorganization would
be assigned to provide greater autonomy in staff recruitment, promotion and
financial management in order to create a stimulating environment for
producing technological improvements for the benefit of the provinces farmers
and the agricultural sector.
46.       The ultimate goal should be the merger of provincial research with
its agricultural University as accomplished in NWFP. Until then, the other
three provinces will reorganize its agricultural research entities to improve
by varying degrees:
(1) autonomy in staff recruiting;
(2) promotion of professional staff based on objective criteria of merit
and research achievement;
(3) financiai management along administrative lines followed by
Universities and other autonomous bodies in Pakistan;
(4) collegiate style of management; and
(5) provision for planning, programming, resource allocation, monitoring
and evaluation of research.
47.       Punjab and Baluchistan would change existing Public Service
regulations to (a) improve the recruiting of research staff through making the
system more responsive in terms of time to recruit and appoint new staff, and
the suitability of staff recruited, with the criteria for recruiting research
staff giving more weightage to academic and technical knowledge and research
achievement; (b) increase the opportunities for promotion within a researchers
area of expertise by increasing the number of higher research positions within
the different research areas, and introducing floating posts awarded on merit;
(c) and give more weightage to merit and research achievement in promotion of
staff. Objective criteria would be introduced to measure merit and research



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 14
achievement. Outstanding merit could be recognized by promotion to a higher
position or by more than usual annual salary increments.
48.       To allow an integrated approach to research planning and resource
allocation, the two provinces would establish new Research Boards chaired by
the provinces Planning and Development Department. The Boards would have
limited membership including, for example, the Secretaries of Agriculture,
Livestock, Forestry and Finance, Vice-Chancellor of the Agricultural
University, Director Generals of Research and Extension, and the Chief of
PARC's Planning Division. The Boards would be responsible for:
(a) identifying provincial research priorities and broad thrusts (within
national guidelines), and establishing guidelines for allocating research
funds to these priorities; (b) collating, producing, and annually updating
provincial research master plans; and (c) monitoring and internally evaluating
provincial research. Sind province has agreed to the establishment of a
semi-autonomous research organization, to be called the Sind Agriculture
Research Organization, merging agriculture, livestock, fisheries and possibly
forestry research, and to rapidly obtain the required provincial enactments.
Suggested provisions for such a Provincial Research Organization (PRO) in
conformity with other Pakistan semi-autonomous bodies such as PARC, is shown
i        in Appendix 1.
:        49.       Planning. Programming. Monitoring and Eval-iation.  These functions
would be strengthened at both the national and the provincial level.
Elaboration of these functions may be noted in Project File B.l, Annex 2
and 3. At the national level PARC's Planning Directorate will be expanded to
include the functions of planning, implementation including the project
implementation unit (PIU) for the ARP-II, monitoring, evaluation and
inventory. The Planning Unit would assist in preparation of: (1) National
Master Agricultural Research Plan; (2) Annual Development Program for
Re.search; (3) annual Portfolio of research proposals requiring foreign
exchange; (4) PC-ls of major development projects for research; (5) assisting
Tech.nical Divisions in developing project proposals; and (6) processing of
projects through local and foreign agencies. The Planning Unit would also
offer assistance to provincial research institutions or organizations
requesting such help.
50.       The Implementation Unit of PARC's Planning Dirente1rate would:
(1) monitor all its research projects receiving funds from external donors;
(2) process monthly, quarterly and annual progress reports; (3) expedite rund
release, staff appointments, equipment, procurement and staff training; and
(4) liaise with international agencies for specific assistance. The
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would: (1) monitor research progress in PARC
projects; (2) establish data processing and appropriate procedures required to
monitor progress; (3) evaluate projects and institute commodity/subject
reviews; (4) assist in establishinig M&E units at other research institutions
as requested; and (5) assist in evaluation missions of other research
institutions.
51.       The Inventory Unit would be a new one whose function would be to
develop and maintain a data base on all agricultural research personnel in the
country (current field/commodity; research institutions and their facilities;



- 66 -
ANNEXr 2
Page 15
and total resource allocations. These would be essential elements of
information for long-range planning and coordination of national agricultural
research by PARC. Thus the design and development of: (1) national inventory
of agricultural research; (2) register of research personnel; (3) register of
agricultural research institutions; and (4) register of resource use in
agricultural research will be the key activities of the Inventory Unit.
52.       To carry out the above expanded functions, the project would provide
funds for incremental staff to the Planning Division of PARC to increase its
professional staff by an additional nine officers in grades 17 to 19 plus
support staff, procure PC computers, office furniture and transport. Training
abroad for one PhD and two MSc and 6 mm of technical assistance will also be
provided. Details may be noted in the Pro4ect Implementation Volume.
53.       At the provincial level the research organization would be
strengthened by establishing a secretariat attached to its Director or
Director-General of Research to carry out planning, programming, monitoring
and evaluation functions. The project would provide funds for incremental
staff for officers in grades 17 through 19 with support staff to be hired to
set up these activities. It would also serve as the provincial project
Implementation Unit during the six years of ARP-II. Funds will be provided
for training to the Masters degree level in planning, programming, monitoring
and evaluation functions and for computer, furniture, transport and technical
assistance.
54.       Research Master Plan.  It is essential that each Province establish
an overall agricultural research master plan (PRMP) based on the provincial
government's delineation of its agricultural, livestock, fisheries and
forestry priorities and consistent with national goals and priorities. Such
PRMPs would determine programs, manpower requirements, training needs,
facilities, equipment, operation and maintenance, and capital and recurrent
budgets on a five year basis plus an additional indicative five years. Such
planning would be an ongoing process in each PRO's secretariat and would be
refined and updated on annual basis. Terms of Reference for the preparation
of the PRMPs are shown in Appendix 2. Once such a PRMP is produced, it serves
as a useful source of information for determining funding by federal and
provincial governments and external maltilateral and bilateral donors.
55.       The first PRMP produced by each of the four provinces would be
completed by the end of the second year of ARP-II and would be then updated
annually by the established PRO in each province. It is recognized that
preparation of the first PRMPs will require considerable time and effort as
well as setting up functional provincial planning, programming, monitoring and
evaluation units. Accordingly, ARP-II would provide technical assistance of
national and internationally recruited experts to assist provincial staff in
preparation of research programs and projects, manpower and training
requirements, staff incentives improvement, research facilities and equipment
needs, establishing effective linkages with extension and internal and
external research organizations, improved research and management information
systems, and capital and operating budgetary requirements. Technical
assistance, including both internationally and locally recruited experts, for



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 16
each province has been provided under ARP-II for the abovementioned purposes.
Terms of Reference for the technical assistance is shown in Appendix 3.
56.       Standardization.  Since new methologies will be introduced at the
national and provincial levels in programming, planning, monitoring and
evaluation and th.e preparation of master research plans, there will be a need
to assure standardization of techniques used. Accordingly PARC will need to
coordinate such activities by periodic meetings of concerned staff and
consultants to ensure a degree of uniformity in approach. Such meetings
should be at least once every three months during the first two years of
ARP-II.
57.       Incremental Operating Funds.  Incremental operating funds are being
provided under ARP-II for establishing and strengthening management service
units described in para 49-55, and for previously determined priority research
in horticultur:e, livestock, soils and social science. It is recognized that
there are other areas of priority research at the provincial level which have
yet to be identified and which would be identified as a result of preparing
the Provincial Master Research Plan (PRMP). Accordingly, ARP-II will provide
incremental operating funds for Rs 115.1 million for Punjab Province, Rs 43.2
million for Sind Province, Rs 24.3 million for NWFP, and Rs 9.1 million for
Baluchistan Province. However, these funds will be released only for research
identified and specified in PRMPs as approved by IDA.
58.       The amount of capital and incremental operating funds available to
the PROs are insufficient to cover all essential research requirements in
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. However, it is assumed that
the preparation of the first PRMPs by the end of the second year of ^RP-II
will identify the extent of additional needs to further strengthen r incial
research. It cculd then be the basis for an ARP-III by the third o. ,.ourth
year of implementation of ARP-II.



- 68 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
List of Institutions Dealing with Research
in Agriculture and Allied Subjects
FEDERAL
1. Arid Zone Research Institute, Quetta
2.  Commonwealth Institute of Biological Control, Rawalpindi
3.  Cotton Research Institute, Multan (PCCC)
4. Cotton Research Institute, Sakrand (PCCC)
5. Crop Diseases Research Institute, Islamabad (PARC)
6. Directorate of Marine Fisheries, Karachi
7. Drainage and Reclamation Institute, Hyderabad
8. Farm Machinery Institute (PARC), Islamabad
9. Federal Pesticides Research Laboratories, Karachi
10. Institute of Cotton Research and Technology, Karachi
11. Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Control Research Council, Islamabad
12. Mona Reclamation Experimental Project (WAPDA), Bhalwal, District Sargodha
13. National Agricultural Research Center, Islamabad (PARC)
14. Nuclear Institute for Agriculture and Biology, Faisalabad
15. Nuclear Institute for Food and Agriculture, Peshawar
16. Atomic Energy Agriculture Research Center, Tandojam
17. Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Lahore
18. Pakistan Forest Institute, Peshawar
19. Pakistan Institute of Cotton Research and Technology, Karachi
20. Pakistan Tobacco Board, Peshawar
21. Radio Isotope Laboratory, Karachi
22. Soil Survey of Pakistan, Lahore
23. Vertebrate Pest Control Center, Karachi
24. Zoological Survey of Pakistan, Nishter Road, Karachi
PUNJAB
1. Angora Goat Research Farm, Rakh Khairwala, Leiah
2. Agricultural Mechanization Research Institute, Multan
3. Ayub Agricultural Research Institute, Faisalabad
4. Barani Agricultural Research Institute, Jhelum
5. Center of Excellence, Water Resources (University of Engineering and
Technology), Lahore
6. Cotton Research Institute, Rahimyar Khan
7. Cotton Research Station, Sahiwal
8. Directorate of Livestock and Dairy Development, Lahore
9. Directorate of Wool/Hair and Mutton Production, Multaii
10. Fisheries Department, Government of Punjab, Lahore
11. Fisheries Pesearch Institute, Munawan, Lahore
12. Fodder Research Institute, Sargodha



- 69 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 2
13. Horticultural Research Station, Sahiwal
14. Irrigation Research Institute, Lahore
15. Land Reclamation Department, Punjab, Lahore
16.  Livestock Experimental Station, Fazilpur
17.  Livestock Experimental Station, Hasilpur, lahawalpur
18.  Livestock Experimental Station, Khanewal
19.  Livestock Experimental Station, Khairemurat, Attock
20.  Livestock Experimental Station, Khushab
21.  Livestock Experimental Station, Qadirabad
22.  Livestock Experimental Station, Muzaffargarh
23.  Livestock Production Institute, Bahawalnagar
24.  Livestock Production Research Institute, Bahadurnagar
25.  Maize and Millet Research Institute, Yousafwala, Sahiwal
26. Mango Research Station, Shujaabad, Dist. Multan
27. Oilseed Research Institute (AARI), Faisalabad
28. Plant Protection Institute (AARI), Faisalabad
29. Poultry Research Institute, Rawalpindi
30. Rice Research Institute, Kala Shah Kaku, Sheikhupura
31. Soil Fertility Survey and Soil Testing Institute, Lahore
32. Soil Fertilizer and Soil Testing Institute (AARI), Faisalabad
33. Sugarcane Research Institute, Faisalabad
34. Veterinary Research Institute, Lahore
35. Water Quality and Soil Monitoring Directorate, Lahore
36. Wheat Research Institute (AARI), Faisalabad
S IND
1. Agricultural Research Institute, Tandojam
2. Agricultural Research Station, Dadu
3. Cotton Research Station, Ghotki
4. Directorate of Fisheries, Sind, Karachi
5. Directorate of Hydrology and Research, Sind, Hyderabad
6. Directorate of Poultry Production and Research, Karachi
7. Institute of Marine Biology (University of Karachi), Karachi
8. Livestock Development Research Farm for Kundi Buffaloes, Rohri
9. Livestock Experimental Station, Tharparker
10. Livestock Research Station, Korangi, Karachi
11. Maize and Millet Research Station, Dadu
12. Poultry Research Institute, Karachi
13. Red Sindhi Cattle Breeding Farm, Tando Muhammad Khan
14. Rice Research Institute, Dokri, Sind
15. Silvicultural Research Division, Hyderabad
16. Sind Horticulture Research Institute, Mirpurkhas
17. Soil Mechanics and Hydraulic Lab., Karachi
18. Sugarcane Research Station, Naudero
19. Sugarcane Research Station, Thatta
N.W.F.P.
1. Agricultural Research Institute (North), Mingora
2. Agricultural Research Institute (South), Dera Ismail Khan
3. Agricultural Research Institute, Tarnab, Peshawar



- 70 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 3
4. Agricultural Research Station, Naurang, Bannu
5. Cereal Crops Reseach Institute, Pirsabak, Nowshera
6. Directorate of Animal Husbandry (NWFP), Peshawar
7.  Fisheries Department, NWFP, Peshawar
8. Livestock Experimental Station (Jaba Sheep Farm), Jaba, Mansehra
9. Sugarcrops Research Institute, Mardan
10. Veterinary Research Institute, Peshawar
11. Wheat Summer Nursery, Kaghan
BALUCHISTAN
1. Agricultural Research Institute, Sariab, Quetta
2. Beef Research Station, Sibi
3. FAO Fruits Research Project, Quetta (ARI)
4. Multipurpose Sheep Research Station, Yateabad
5. Regional Livestock Diagnostic Laboratory, Quetta
6. Vaccine Production Center, Quetta
7. Wool Research Laboratory, Mastung
8. World Bank Vegetables Seed Production Center, Quetta
UNIVERSITIES/COLLEGES
1. Baluchistan University, Quetta
2. Barani Agricultural College, Rawalpindi
3. Bahauddin Zakrya University, Multan
4.  Gomal University, D.I. Khan
5. Islamic University, Bahawalpur
6. Karachi University, Karachi
7. NWFP Agricultural University, Peshawar
8. Quaid-e-Azam University, Islamabad
9. Sind Agricultural University, Tandojam
10. University of Agriculture, Faisalabad
11. University of Peshawar, Peshawar
12. University of Sind, Jamshoro
13. University of the Punjab, Lahore



PAKISTAN
AGRIC4LTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Some Details of 1980 Expenditure on Aariculture Research for 67 Develoning Countries
GNP per        Agricultural Research          Average Annual          No. of       Average Cost
Country            capita             Expenditure 1980            Growth Rate of       Scientists    per Scientist
(US$)L.     Thousand    Percentage of         Agricultural GDP                         (US$)La
US$     agricultural GOP        1970-1980 (X)
Expenditure over 1% of aaricultural GDP
Panama               1,730         3,200            5.33                  1.9                  64            50,000
Zimbabwe               630        10,560            2.42                 -0.5                 201            52.537
Guyana                  570        2,428            1.85                   1.0                 35            69,371
Argentina            2,390       166,340            1.64                  2.6               1,064           156,335
Mexico               2,090       172,402            1.36                  2.3               1,950            88,411
Barbados             1,620            767           1.35                  0.0                  23            33,348
Venezuela            3,630        39,172            1.32                  3.8                 360           108,811
Mali                    190        7.354            1.24                  4.4                  68           108,147
Senegal                450         9,797            1.21                  3.7                 105            93,304                          -4
Kenya                  420        24,052            1.19                  5.4                 400            60,130
Brazil               2,050       245,000            1.15                  4.9               2,957            82,854                          1
Cyprus               1,520         2,411            1.12                  1.1                  55            43,836
Total                            683,483                                                    7.282            93.860
Expenditure between 0.5 and 1% of aaricultural GOP
Fiji                 1,150         2,349            0.88                  N.A.                 22           106,773
Malaysia              1,620       46,334            0.82                  5.1                 822            56,367
Chile                2,150         10,353           0.81                  2.3                 281            36,843
Burundi                200         3,610            0.81                  1.8                  41            88.049
Zambia                  560         5,205           0.80                   1.8                109            47.752
Ivory Coast          1,150        24,370            0.78                  3.4                 212           176.594
Togo                   410          1,892           0.76                  0.8                  49            38,612
Malawi                  230        4,562            0.75                  4.1                 276            16,529
Nigeria               1,010      134,964            0.74                  0.8               1.084           124,505
Colombia              1,180       38,572            0.64                  4.9                 333           115,832
Morocco                900         19,981           0.62                  0.8                 686            29,127
Lesotho                420           465            0.60                  2.9                  14            33,214                       Id
Papua New Guinea       780         5,052            0.59                  N.A.                110            45,927                       > X
Benin                   310        2,403            0.59                  N.A.                 19           126,474                        a F' M
Uruguay              2,810         4,174            0.59                  0.2                 222            18,802                        -    > 
Sudan                  410        14,636            0.57                  2.6                 164            89,244                          t, r%
Chad                    120         1,602           0.56                 -0.3                  42            38,143
Tunisia              1,310         6.764            0.55                  4.9                 285            23,733
El Salvador            660         4,974            0.50                  2.8                 116            42.879
Total                            332.262                                                    4,887            67.990



GNP per        Agricultural Research          Average Annual          No. of       Average Cost
Country            capita             Exoenditure 1980            Growth Rate of       Scientists    per Scientist
(US$)Lj     Thousand    Percentage of         Agricultural GOP                         (US$)LZ
US$     agricultural GOP        1970-1980 (%)
Expenditure between 0.25 and 0.49X of aaricultural GOP
Bangladesh              130       26.616            0.48                   2.2              1.642            16,210
Egypt                  580        23,717            0.45                  2.7               2,724             8,707
Jordan               1,420            850           0.44                  N.A.                 35            24.286
Libya                8,640         2,793            0.44                 11.1                 123            22.707
Pakistan               300        25.277            0.41                  2.3               2.834             8.919
Sri Lanka               270        4,342            0.41                   2.8                422            10,289
Guatemala             1,080        4,700            0.39                   4.6                158            29,747
Madagascar              350        4,801            0.39                   0.1                 68            71.779
Tanzania               280         7,219            0.35                  4.9                 256            28,199
Ecuador              1,270         6,436            0.35                   2.4                276            23,319
Bolivia                 570        2,808            0.34                   3.1                114            24,632
India                   240      154,781            0.33                   1.9              7,103            21.791
Peru                   930         8.912            0.33                  N.A.                269            33,310
Turkey                1.470       34,426            0.28                   3.4                937            36,741
Upper Volta 11          274         1,105           0.28                   1.2                123            20,463
Paraguay             1,300         3,100            0.28                  6.9                  63            49,206
Nicaragua               740         1,999           0.27                   3.1                 63            31.730
Thailand                670       23,276            0.26                   4.7              1,525            15,263
Indonesia              430        44,485            0.26                   3.8              1,473            30,200
Total                            381.743                                                   20,208            18,890
Expenditure under 0.25X of aaricultural GOP
Costa Rica            1,730         2,082           0.24                   2.5                 75            27,760
Syria                 1,340        5,293            0.24                  8.2                 172            30,773
Korea (Rep)          1,520        29,031            0.23                   3.2                960            30,241
Jamaica               1,040           772           0.23                   0.7                 40            19,300
Mauritana               440           284           0.22                   1.1                  8            35,500
Sierra Leone            280           698           0.21                   2.2                 35            19,943
Nepal                   141        2,797            0.20                   0.5                226            12,376
Cameroon               670          3,788           0.20                   3.8                106            35,736
Dominican Rep.        1,160         2,515           0.20                   3.1                 99            25.404
Philippines            690         16.254           0.20                  4.9               1,050            15,480
Zaire                   220        5,098            0.20                   1.2                 97            52,557
Rwanda                  200           945           0.18                  N.A.                 24            39,375
Ethiopia                140        3,400            0.18                  0.7.                155            21,935
Ghana                   420        10,095           0.17                  -o.2                352            28,679
Honduras                560           978           0.16                   1.5                 60            16,300                        ' 
Liberia                530            394           0.11                  4.7                  20            19,700                        PP
Uganda                  300        7,452            0.08                  0.9                 175            42,583  
Total                             91,876                                                    3,654            25,144
Source: Oram and Bindlish, IFPRI Research Report in publication.
/I GNP per capita, agricultura GOP derived from national or World Bank data and growth rates of agricultural GDP
(World Development Report, 1982).
LI Costs per scientist includes salary and all research expencliture.
/3 Excludes costs of expatriate scientists.



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RISEARCH II PROJECT
Scientific Staff. Grade NPS16 and above. in Aricultural Research Institutions
in Federal and Provincial Service on 30 June 1984
Budaet (1983-831                                        Staff NPS 16 and above
------------ (Rs. million) -------------            Sant    In Position with Oualificatiom   Total  Vacanc1es
Development    Non-Development        Total         Loned       Ph.D. O.    ".SC1     BlS
M.Phil    ".V
1. Federal                        26S,135            129.992         395.127        1,480        105          793       278       1.176        304
2. Punjab                          53,386            100,508         153,894         1,250        25          521       320         866        384
3. Sind                             13,237            36,498          49,735          451          12         231        81         324        127
4. NWFP                             17,290            29,813          47,103           338          3          121      149         273         65
5. Baluchistan                       9.297            10,231          19,528           177          3           38       62         103         74
6. Agricultural Universities        47.786            73,281          ILJ2  ?          859        TS1         477        61         68         170
Total                          406,131            380,323         786,454        4,555        299        2,181       951       3,431      1,124
(million US$ equivalent)   (US$30.084)         (US$28.172)    (US$S58.256)
(US$ = Rs. 13.5)
Sourcx:  Agricultural Research Manpower Survey, PARC, Islamabad 1985.
vmx



-74 -                              AANNEX 2
Table 4
PAKISTAN
AGRICUITURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Overall Expenditure per Scientist in Agricultural Research
in 1983/84 by Major Groups of Research Institutions
(total extenditure/number of scien"sts)
Total Agricultural Research      Non-Development Expenditure
Expenditure per Scientist               per Scientist
(Development + Non-Development)             (in Rs.'000)
(in Rs. '000)
Major Groups                         Sanctioned                         Sanctioned
of Research        Actual Number    Number of        Actual Number      Number of
Institutions      of Scientists    Scientists       of Scientists       Scientists
Federal                336.0            267.0            110.5             87.8
Punjab                 177.7            123.1            116.0             80.4
Sind                   153.5            110.3            112.6             80.9
NWFP                   172.5            139.4            109.2             88.2
Baluchistan            189.6            110.3             99.3             57.8
Agr. Univs.            175.7            141.0            106.4             85.3
Average                229.2            172.6            110.8             83.5
(USA$ equivalent)  ($17,000)         ($12,800)         ($8,200)          ($6,200)
(US$1=Rs 13.5)
Source: Agricultural Research Manpower Survey, PARC (1985).
Notes: The Development expenditure includes capital and project funds which
support some scientists in projects. These scientists have been
included in arriving at the non-development expenditure for
scientists, thereby depressing somewhat the figure for expenditure on
non-project scientists. However, the number of scientists supported
directly by projects is relatively small compared to the total number
of scientists.
Part of the Development (project element) expenditures in Federal
rese&trch institutions supports directly research work in the Provinces.



-75 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 5
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Overall Expenditure per Scientists in Agricultural Research
in 1983/84 by Selected Research Institution
(total expenditure/number of scientists)
Total Research Expenditure
per Scientist             Non-Development Expenditure
(Development + Non-Development)           per Scientist
(in Rs. '000)                    (in Rs.'OOO)
Sanctioned                       Sanctioned
Research           Actual Number    Number of       Actual Number      Number of
Institution         of Scientists    Scientists    of Scientists        Scientists
FEDERAL
PARC                     495.0            353.0             86.6             61.6
Pak. Central
Cotton Committee      .212.0            212.0            153.0            153.0
Mona Reclamation
Experiment Project                                      187.6            173.3
Soil Survey of
Pakistan                                                113.6            101.8
Nuclear Inst. for Food
& Agric., Tarnab       217.6           217.6            217.6            217.6
Atomic Energy Agric.
Res. Cen., Tandojam   168.6             165.1            168.6           165.1
Nuclear Inst. for
Agric. & Biol.,
Faisalabad             136.8           136.8            107.1            107.1
PROVINCES
Ayub ARI                 131.0             88.0             96.3             64.4
ARI Tandojam              75.3            52.9              71.9            50.5
Rice Res. Inst. Dokri   336.6            211.0            219.3            137.5
ART Tarnab               143.4           114.3            102.0             81.3
ARI Sariab               126.0             77.1            90.7             55.5
Center of Excellence
in Marine Biology      96.3             96.3             79.6             79.6
AGR. UNIVERSITIES
Faisalabad               175.8           146.4            154.7            128.8
Sind                     210.5           186.6             79.5              70.5
NWFP                     111.3             72.2
Source:  Agriculture Resource Manpower Survey, PARC, 1985.
Notes:  The precise comparative meaning of the figures for expenditure on
research for scientists at the Universitites is not clear.



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
Table 6
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Overall Expenditure per Scientist in Agricultural Research
for Some Selected Asian Countries
Current USQ         Constant 1980 US$
Indonesia     (1984)                      48,000                 37,800
Sri Lanka     (1983)                       14,900                12,200
India (IACAR) (1985)                       16,500                12,700
Nepal         (1980)                        8,000                 8,000
Pakistan      (1984)                       17,000                13,400
Source:  ISNAR/IFARD Data base for National Agricultural Research Systems:
Latest Figures (not yet published).



- 77 -                                ANNEX 2
Table 7
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Overall Non-development Expenditure per Researcher
in Some Institutes of PARC
1985/86            1986/87           1987/88
Actual Staff       Actual Staff        Budget
NARC                                11,400             11,000            9,900
AZRI                                  -                10,500            9,100
PRMI                                11,300             12,900           10,600
Non-development Expenditures per Researcher on Salaries
and on Operational Activities for AZRI, PRMI
and Some Institutes and Divisions in NARC
Salaries, etc. per researcher
AZRI                                  -                 6,090            6,220
PRMI                                 6,300              8,600            7,300
Animal Science Inst.                  -                 7,090            7,440
Nat. Resources Sector                 -                 3,050            3,250
Crop Dis. Res. Inst.                 6,900              4,890            3,770
(8,800)/1
Operational expenditure
per researcher
AZRI                                  -                 3,760            2,520
PRMI                                 3,360              4,140            2,920
ASI                                   -                 3,800            3,000
NRS                                   -                 1,130            1,120
CDRI                                 3,160              1,590            2,360
(2,e60)/l
/1 On budgeted number of staff.



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTUPAL RESEARCH I1 PROJECT
PARC - Plannina. Monitorina. Evaluation and Prolect Imolementation
(Rs '000)
Unit                                                                Total Base
Unit    Cost      89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95            Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES & EOUIPMENT
1. Vehicles
Pickups                                 2       400        800                                                           800
2. Enuiament
PC computer                             1        175        175                                                           175
Office furniture                                         1,000                                                         1.000
B. TRAINING & TIA
1. Trainin
Ph.D Overseas                           1     450/y                  450       450       450      450                  1,800
MSc. Overseas                           2     450/y                  900       900       900       900                 3,600
Short Courses                          12 mm 145/mm        290       290       290       290       290      290        1.740
Local Training                         36 mm  10/1m        360                                                           360
2. Technical Assistance                   10 mm 180/mm         600      600       600                                      1,800
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCREMENTAL STAFF
1. Division Office
Senior Chief BPS-21 from 20             1        100        100      100       100       100       100      100          600                            OD
Asst. Techr.1cal Officer BPS-IS         1         50.5       50.S     50.S      S0.S     50.       50.5      5S.5        303
Stenographer                            1
2. Planning
Planning Officer BPS-19                 1        155        155      155       155       155       155      155          930
Stenographer BPS-15                     1         38.5       38.5     38.5      38.5      38.5      38.S      38.5       231
3. Imolementation
Planning Officer 8PS-19                 1        1SS        155      155       1SS       155       155       155         930
Planning Officer BPS-18                 2        105       210       210       210       210       210      210        1,260
Planning Officer BPS-17                 1         92.7      92.7      92.7      92.7      92.7      92.7     92.7        556
Stenographer BPS-1S                     1         38.5       38.5     38.5      38.5      38.5      38.5      38.5        231
Stenotypist BPS-12                      3         30.5      91.5      91.5      91.5      91.5      91.5     91.5         549
Assistant BPS-il                        2         28.3       56.6     56.6      56.6      56.6      Sj.6      56.6        340
L.D.C.    BPS-S                         1         20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3      20.3     20.3         122
Attendant BPS-1                         1         17         17       17        17        17        17        17          102
4. Monitoring. Evaluation
Senior Research Officer BPS-18          1        105        105      105       105       105       105       105         630
tiE OFficer BPS-17                      1         92.7      92.7      92.7      92.7      92.7      92.7     92.7         556
Technical Assistant BPS-15              4         38.5      154      154       154       154       154      154          924
Stenotypist BPS-12                      2         30.5      61        61        61        61        61       61          366
S. Inventor
Program Officer BPS-18                  1        105        lOS      105       105       105       105       105         630
S. Stat. Officer BPS-18                 1        105        105      105       105       105       105       105         630
Computer Officer BPS-15                 1         38.5       38.5     38.5      38.5      38.5      38.5      38.5        231                         go
Stenotypist BPS-12                      2         30.5      61        61        61        61        61       61          366                          a, i
Assistant BPS-11                        2         28.3      56.6      56.6      56.6      56.6      56.6     56.6        340                          ¢  X
Attendant BPS-1                         1         17         17       17        17        17        17        17         102
0XN3
S. INCREMENTAL OM                                                140       28n       420      420       420       420        2.100AZ.LQ
TOTAL BASE COST                                          5,186    4,341    4.t82    3.882    3,882    2,531           24,304



-79 -                                ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
Provincial Agricultural Research Organization
1.        A Provincial Agricultural Research Organization (PRO) would be
established (consistent with the laws and regulations of the province and the
Government of Pakistan). Once the ordinance is published, all agricultural
livestock, fisheries, and forestry research entities, staff and facilities
presently within the provit.-ial government would be transferred to the
jurisdiction of the PRO.
Functions
2.        The function of the PRO would be to:
(1) undertake, assist and promote research and its effective utilization
for the benefit of the province;
(2) strengthen the research activities as required to solve problems
facing the agricultural, livestock, fisheries and forestry sectors
to fulfill provincial goals consistent with national priorities;
(3) upgrade its research, technical and administrative staff through
training in Pakistan and abroad;
(4) promote linkages with extension and other indigenious and
international research organizations for the dissemination of
research findin,s;
(5) allocate funds received for the proper operation of its research
activities; and
(6) institute regulations approved by the provincial government
affecting appointments, terms and condition of service of its
employees to attract and retain highly qualified scientific
personnel, and to create an environment (collegiate style of
management) conducive to conducting research for solving the
provinces agricultural, livestock, fisheries and forestry problems.
Management
3.        The overall direction and control of the PRO will be by a Board
appointed by the Chief Minister of the Province. Its Chairman would be the
p Provincial Additional Chief Secretary or equivalent.  The Board would consist
of not more than 15 members and in addition to the Chairman, would include the
Director General of Research, the Vice Chancellor of the Agricultural
University, full-time PRO staff representing crops, livestock, fisheries,
forestry, and finance, and members from PARC, and provincial departments of
Planning and Development, Finance, Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and
Forestry.



- 80 -                              ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 2
Appointments would be for three years. The Board would meet at least twice a
year presided over by the Chairman or, in his absence, by a member of the
Board designated by him. The first Board meetii.g of the year (January) would
consider policy issues relating to scientific and technical matters whereas
the second meeting (July) would consider budget and administrative matters.
4.        An executive committee would be established to serve as the
principal administrative body of PRO responsible for executing policies and
discharging all functions of PRO.  It would be headed by a chief executive,
and would include the five full-time PRO staff appointed to the Board.  The
executive committee would establish a secretariat to exercise control over
financial, administrative, planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation of
PRO operations.  The executive committee would meet once a month and at other
times as required.  The Board may delegate to the Executive Committee such of
its functions and powers it may deem necessary.
5.        The executive committee would also establish technical committees to
review research proposals and on-going research in designated commodities or
disciplines and recommend the means for conducting such to the Executive
Committee.
6.        The chief executive of the PRO would be a senior scientist in BPS 20
or more, and his appointment would be made by the Board through open
competition from all eligible senior research scientists of the province.
Criteria for selection would include demonstrated scientific and
administrative capabilities, a minimum grade of BPS 20 with at least three
years of service in that grade, a minimum of ten years of service as a
research scientist, a PH D degree from a university of good standing, and
other provincial government regulations required of such a higher level
position. The chief executive of the PRO would serve for a fixed term of five
years.
Finance
7.        A Fund will be established to which all sums received by the PRO
shall be credited and from which all expenditures of the PRO will be debited.
The Funds of PRO would consist of:
(1) grants from the Federal and Provincial governments;
(2) grants, donations, endowment, contributions, aid and assistance
given by other organizations;
(3) foreign aid and loans obtained or raised with the approval of the
government; and
(4) receipts from other sources.
PRO funds should be non lapsable. PRO may open accounts in any scheduled bank
in Pakistan. The accounts would be audited in accordance with government
procedures.



-81 -                               ANNEX 2
Appendix 1
Page 3
Reports
8.        The PRO shall furnish to the Provincial government by the end of
each financial year a report on the activities of PRO and a summary of
accounts for that year. An updated Research Master Plan for PRO for the next
ten years including estimated budgets for the first five years will also be
submitted annually. Also, every five years, national and international
scientists of repute would conduct an external review, in relation to
previously set targets and goals, of the agricultural research programs and
their management.



-82 -                              ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL REsEARCH PROJECT II
PROVINCIAL RESEARCH MASTER PLAN
Proposed Terms of Reference
A. Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the provincial research master plan (PRMP)
would be to:
(i) establish the provincial and agro-ecological priorities to be used
in developing agricultural, livestock and fisheries and forestry
research programs for the next ten years based on sound economic
analyses and agreed provincial and national sector goals;
(ii) define the means for strengthening research organization,
management, planning, budgeting, financial control and monitoring
and evaluation;
(iii) estimat.e the manpower anu training requirements for the next ten
years to effectively conduct the provincial and zonal agricultural
research programs and projects;
(iv) assess means for improving research staff incentives, promotion and
remuneration, to attract and retain highly qualified and capable
research scientific personnel;
(v) in the light of (i), assess the functions of all agricultural,
livestock, fisheries and forestry research facilities in the
province and provide specific recommendations for their retention,
improvement, or discontinuation, in order to minimize duplication
and promote consolidation;
(vi) detezmine means for promoting more effective linkages with the
extension services, universities, Federal level research
institutions such as PARC, APC and so on, other local institutions,
private sector and with international agricultural research centers
and other institutions;
(vii) determine the means for improving the research and management
information systems for all activities through computer hardware and
software, radio, audiovisual, publications and journals;
(viii) determine funds needed for capital investments and recurrent
expenditures for a finite five years and an indicative further
five-year period to achieve targeted goals;



- 83 -                           ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 2
(ix) collate all the above information in the preparation of a Research
Master Plan to serve as a blueprint for further institutional reform
and development; and
(x) issue the Masterplan no later than the end of the second year of the
Agricultural Research II Project, to serve as the basis for support
by government and external donors.
B.  Scope of Review for Research Master Plan Preparation
2.        Define Provincial Agricultural, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
Research Programs and Projects. All research should have a defined purpose in
light of established Provincial and agro-ecological priorities for Pakistani
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. Therefore, the study should:
(i! review all existing research projects and programs, and advise on
their need in light of provincial priorities to be established at
the outset of this Masterplan preparation and recommend on
additional research needs as deemed necessary;
(ii) assess the research projects and programs to eliminate duplication
and promote consolidation of effort; and
(iii) recommend additions in scope, where necessary to strengthen the
research effort (that is, economic assessments, farm management,
farming systems research, and so on).
3.        Define research organization and management requirements:
(i) assess existing organizational structures and recommend, as
required, further needs for strengthening, to more effectively
conduct the research priority programs;
(ii) assess and make recommendations for improving research management;
and
(iii) review existing planning, budgeting, financial control and
monitoring and evaluation procedures, and make recommendations for
strengthening these procedures.
4.        Estimate manpower and training requirements.  Some research staff
require additional training in their particular disciplines and research
methodology. Therefore there is a need to assess manpower requirements and
training to effectively conduct the agreed research programs and projects over
the next ten years. Similarly, assessment is necessary on the manpower and
training needs to adequately carry out the management, administration,
planning, information, budgeting, financial and monitoring and evaluation
functions.  The review should therefore:
(i) assess the qualifications and experience of all researchers,
management, administrative and support services as to training and
experience;



- 84 -                             ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 3
(ii) estimate staff requirements by discipline and/or functions,
training, location and agro-ecological region for a ten-year period;
and
(iii) recommend additional training needs in Pakistan and abroad,
inclusive of graduate degree training, for ten years and their
estimated costs.
5.        Assess staff incentives improvement.  There is a need to review
means of improving staff incentives to attract and retain professionals of
high caliber. Accordingly, the review would:
(i) review all existing staff salaries, incentives and promotion
procedures;
(ii) recommend realistic means for improving staff incentives to retain
qualified personnel; and
(iii) estimate the incremental costs to recurrent expenditures resulting
from enacting recommended staff incentives improvements.
6.        Assess functions of all research facilities conducting agricultural,
livestock, fisheries and forestry research in the Province. All research
institutes, stations, farms and laboratories need to be individually visited
and assessed for:
(i) justification for its operation as a research facility and its
appropriateness for conducting national and zonal priority research
programs;
(ii) adequacy of existing facilities for offices, laboratories,
greenhouses, workshops and housing;
(iii) adequacy and recommendations on existing laboratory and farm
equipment and vehicles, and for the proper maintenance of all
facilities, research plots, trials and access roads;
(iv) recommendations on consolidation of research facilities, where
possible, for improved efficiency of operations; and
(v) recommendations on restructuring of existing networks among
institutes, stations and farms, to provide a smooth blending of
national research programs, research programs with a provincial
focus, and farmer-oriented applied research
7.        t4ore effective linkages to extension, indigenous institutions and
external research. Linkages between research and extension in the province
need to be strengthened. Similarly, contacts with indigenous institutions
which can assist researchers, especially through training (that is,
universities) need to be enhanced. Contacts with external research
institutions and especially the International Research Centers have been
unsystematic and need to be improved. The review would assess and recommend:



- 85 -                              ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 4
(i) means for more effective linkages with extension, especially through
farming systems research, on-farm trials and periodic meetings to
exchange information;
(ii) methodology for on-going training of extension subject matter
specialists at various research facilities
(iii) methodology for periodic reviews of research progress and farmers
problems;
(iv) methodology for establishing farmers' field days at research
facilities, on-farm trials and on-farm demnnstrations;
(v) methodology for effective research input to mass media releases,
audiovisual aids and documentation to be used by the extension
services;
(vi) means for more effective contacts with universities through
contracts for more basic research geared to specific problems facing
farmers, advanced degree training of research staff, and
collaborative efforts by conducting thesis research programs at
research institutes; and
(vii) establishing improved contacts with external national and
international research organizations, scientific exchange, attending
scientific meetings and presentation of significant scientific
contributions to international societies and in publications.
8.        Improving research and management information systems.  The research
and management information systems are weak, uncoordinated and require
strengthening. Therefore the review would:
(i) review all library and documentation facilities of all research
facilities and recommend measures and costs over a ten-year period,
for strengthening same;
(ii) review all systems for management information, such as planning,
budgeting, accounting, inventories of capital and recurrent items,
and assess feasibility (costs, benefits) of
computerization/mechanization and recommended computer hardware,
software, radio linkages of all research facilities, audiovisual,
and printing facilities; and
(iii) review research station requirements to serve similar needs as well
as for specific research programs.
9.        Budgetary requirements.  Based on the findings and recommendations
with their costs determined in paras. 2 through 8 above! recommendations
should be made on the capital and recurrent expenditures to achieve stated
goals of the Province's agricultural, livestock, fisheries and forestry
research programs for a finite five years and an indicative period of a
further five-year period. Recommendations would include:



- 86 -                             ANNEX 2
Appendix 2
Page 5
(i) capital and recurrent expenditures for each research program and
project;
(ii) capital and recurrent expenditures for each research facility and
headquarters;
(iii) capital expenditures for civil works, laboratory and farm equipment
and vehicles;
(iv) recurrent expenditures for existing and incremental staff salaries
(professional, technical, administrative and labor), materials
(chemicals, fertilizers, pesticides, etc.), office, laboratory and
farm supplies, operation and maintenance of buildings, greenhouses,
workshops, research farms, livestock, equipment, and vehicles;
(v) training, including advanced degree training and attendance of
international scientific meetings and visits to recognized
international research centers and institutions; and
(vi) installation of computer, communications, documentation and
information facilities, to optimize research, administrative,
accounting, monitoring, evaluation and financial management.
C. Research Master Plan Arrangements
10.       The Province would appoint a Head of a Research Working Group and
Subgroups outlined in paras. 2 through 8 above within a secretariat of the
proposed PRO, and with major inputs of research directors and professional
staff. The in-depth review and preparation of the Master Plan would be
conducted with technical assistance provided through nationally and
internationally-recruited consultants. These consultants could be hired
through a recognized international organization such as ISNAR or a private
firm with international experience in conducting such in-depth reviews. Terms
of reference would be def Ined before arrival in the Province and with full
approval of government.
11.       Such a review would be initiated soon after ARP II becomes
effective. It is estimated that, except for the individual designated to lead
the consultants and with prime responsibility for assisting in collating and
preparing the Master Plan, most other consultants would be involved for about
three months each. The final Master Plan approved by government should be
ready ior review by the World Bank no later than the end of the second year of
the project.



- 87 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
To Strengthen Planning. Programming. Monitoring and Evaluation
Methodologies and Preparation of Master Research Plans
at National and Pruvincial Levels
A. Introduction of Methodologies for Priority Assessment
in Agricultural Research
1.        A formalized methodology for setting national and provincial
priorities for agricultural research in major commodities and production
factors will be introduced at PARC and the four provincial research
organizations to provide information to guide decision making on such
priorities.
2.        The consultant would help in the process by:
(a)  presenting options for a methodology to be followed;
(b)  initiating social and technical scientists in the detail of the
selected methodology;
(c)  introducing appropriate economic analytical techniques for
determining some of the factors involved in the methodology for
assessing research priorities, and
(d)  assisting a planning team to present to the Research Boards a first
indicative allocation of agricultural research resources amongst
commodity and production factors, as an initial frame of reference
for assessing the size of national and provincial research thrusts.
3.        At the national level, the consultant would be primarily assigned to
PARC (Social Sciences Division) for a period of two months, but would have
close contact also with the Planning Directorate. At the provincial level,
consultants would be appointed for four months in each of the provinces (three
months in Baluchistan) attached to the Secretariat of the newly organized PRO
or Research Board but with close contact with. the provincial AERU.
4.        The consultants would be an agricultural economist/economist with
wide experience of agricultural policy analysis in developing countries, and
experience in determining national and regional research priorities.
B.  Introduction of Proeram-Budgetini s
5.        A formalized program-budgeting methodology will be introduced at
each PRO as a management tool for defining clearly the resources required for



- 88 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 2
6.        The consultants would help in the establishment of a program
budgeting system by:
(a) establishing appropriate procedures for collecting relevant
information on research operational activities;
(b)  producing manuals for procedures in program-budgeting and arranging
training courses for management and research staff in their use;
(c)  testing the procedures with suitable formats for details of
experiments, surveys, and studies;
(d)  assisting in the development of a micro-computer capability to
facilitate the operation of the system; and
(e) assisting in the preparation of the first Provincial Master Research
Plan.
7.        The Consultants would be assigned to PARC (Planning Directorate) and
to the Secretariats of each PRO for four months (three months for Baluchistan)
in each case (in one or two periods).
8.        The consultant would be agricultural scientists with research and
management experience in developing countries, preferably with experience of
accounting and spread sheet techniques.
C. Development of Monitoring and Evaluation Methodologies
9.        A Monitoring and Evaluation Cell has been established at PARC and
will be expanded to a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. Evaluation procedures
for periodic reviews of research institutions have been developed: a further
range of monitoring and evaluation procedures are necessary. In the provinces
monitoring and evaluation units will be established in each PRO.
10.       The consultants would help in the development of new monitoring and
evaluation procedures, and in monitoring performance of evaluative activities
by each Unit, by:
(a) establishing appropriate procedures for collecting relevant
information on research progress;
(b)  working with the research groups to develop and test suitable
indications of research progress at different management levels;
(c)  reviewing completed evaluation of institutions and assisting in
arranging further evaluations;
(d)  assisting in training courses in monitoring and evaluation at PARC
and in Provincial research institutions.



- 89 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 3
Page 3
11.       One consultant would be assigned to PARC (Planning Directorate) for
a total period of six months over three years, in six week periods. A
consultant in each of the four provinces would be assigned for a period of
eight months each (four months in Baluchistan) spread over the first three
years of ARP II.
12.       The consultants would have wide experience of monitoring and
evaluation procedures and approaches, and close familiarity with research,
preferably in agriculture in developing countries. Experience as a manager in
agricultural research would be an advantage.



- 90 -
ANNEXL 2
Appendix 4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Research Institutions
Federal Research Institutions
1.    Pakistan Agricultural Research Council.  PARC is the major federal
agricultural research organization. Its functions broadly include promoting
and coordinating agricultural research in line with Pakistan's economic and
social development policies, initiating and conducting basic research, and
developing new research in priority areas currently neglected. PARC evolved
from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, first, as the Food and
Agricultural Council, and in 1977 as the Pakistan Agricultural Research
Council. In 1981 PARC received greater independence and responsibilities.
PARC is continuing to evolve in terms of its capabilities and mandate. PARC
is an autonomous body within MINFA, and works closely with the provincial
Agricultural Departments (PADs), provincial Agricultural Research Institutes
(ARIs), and Agricultural Universities. It is directed by a Board of
Governors, which is headed by the Minister of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives, and selected from federal and provinci:l research organizations
and farmers. An Executive Board, consisting of a chairman and five full-time
members representing crops, natural resources, animal sciences, social
services, and finance controls PARC's day-to-day operations.
2.    PARC Institutes.  PARC operates eight institutes, and employs 568
scientists, of whom 97 have PhD degrees (May, 1989). NARC, situated on 560 ha
just outside Islamabad, is PARC's newest (established 1984) and largest
institute, and main operational arm. Its staff undertake a wide range of crop
and livestock research, with emphasis on plant introduction and breeding,
plant protection, agricultural machinery development, economics, and livestock
feeding and crossbreeding. To date NARC's achievements are limited, mainly
because of start-up difficulties, insufficient research prioritizing and
planning, an inadequate management structure, and failure to appoint a
permanent Director-General during the last two years. The USAID-assisted
Management of Agricultural Research and Technology Project (MART) is providing
NARC technical assistance to help prepare a long-term research plan and
improve research administration and managemetLL. As well, NARC still requires
some additional facilities including a new crop sciences building, and
research facilities in Pakistan's northern upland areas.
3.    National Coordinated Research Programs.  Under its mandate to promote,
aid and coordinate agricultural research, PARC currently funds some 30
National Coordinated Research Programs (NCRPs), covering crop production, land
and water resources, forestry and environment, and animal health and
production. They bring together researchers from federal and provincial
organizations, including universities, to plan and undertake coordinated
research. Each NCRP involves at least three participating organizations, and
one researcher from a cooperating unit, who is designated as coordinetor, to



- 91 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
Page 2
advise, encourage, facilitate and support the work.  Several NCRPs have
oubstantially contributad to increasing production and/or efficiency in their
areas, especially the wheat program.  These NURPs havb also iuteracted well
with the international research instetutes (particularly CIMMYT and IRRI under
the wheat and rice programs). However, most NCRPs have insufficient
operational funds, and several do not meet the basic criteria for coordinated
programs, that is, they are extremely small and narrowly focussed, and/or do
not cover complementary, coordinated work but are really a series of
independent research projects, and/or do not address Pakistan's priority
research needs. Nevertheless, PARC is currently reviewing these programs, and
will either redesign or discard them.
4.    Other Federal Agricultural Research Institutions.  Other important
institutions undertaking agricultural research at the federal lezel include:
the Pakistan Central Cotton Committee (PCCC), which is responsible for
research and development in cotton growing, manufacturing and marketing; AEC
with three institutes studying the application of nuclear techniques to
agriculture and biological, research; Pakistan Forestry Institute (PFI), which
is responsible for forestry research throughout Pakistan; Water and Power
Authority (WAPDA) which does research on waterlogging and salinity, and the
Ministry of Science and Technology which undertakes research on irrigated
agriculture through the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources
(PCRWR).
Provincial Research Institutes
5.    General.  All the provinces have their own agricultural research
services covering crops, livestock, forestry, and in some instances,
fisheries. These services are generally administered within separate
provincial line departments, which usually conduct research in isolation from
each other. In North West Frontier province (NWFP) the Agricultural
University is responsible for crop and livestock research. All provinces
place major emphasis on crop research, and each has an apex agricultural (that
is, crop) research institute (ARI) with a supporting network of substations
and experimental farms.  Some have commodity-oriented institutes.  Punjab,
Sind and NWFP have agr'cultural universities, however, the r.search programs
at Punjab and Sind are mainly limited to MSc and PhD thesis preparation.
While several research institutes employ large numbers of staff, they have few
experienced researchers with PhD qualifications, or trained research leaders.
6.    Puniab.  Of the four provinces, Punjab has by far the largest and best
trained agricultural research staff. The Ayub Agricultural Research Institute
(AARI) is Punjab's main crop research institute. AARI is headed by a
Director-General (DG) who reports to the Secretary of Agriculture.  Besides
its main campus at Faisalabad, AARI has 18 substations.  It employs 820
scientists of whom 25 have PhDs (October, 1988). AARI's main programs are



- 92 -
ANNEX2
Appendix 4
Page 3
wheat, rice and vegetable breeding, and in collaboration with CIMMYT,'/ IRRI,2'
and PARC, has successfully introduced high yielding varieties (HYV) of wheat
and rice to provincial farmers. Nevertheless, the provincial citrus industry
is presently facing a serious problem of citrus decline in many orchards, and
work is urgently required to properly identify and treat this outbreak.
7. A separate Livestock Department is responsible for livestock research.
Its main research center is the Livestock Production Research Institute at
Bahadur Fagar, while its other institutions include the Animal Nutrition
Center, Lahore; Veterinary Research Institute, Lahort; and Poultry Research
Institute, Rawalpindi. A DG Livestock Research heads these institutions, and
reports to the Secretary, Department of Livestock.
8. Sind. The Sind Agriculture Department is responsible for both crop and
livestock research. It has three agencies undertaking crop research, that is,
ARI at Tandojam, which has eight substations and five research farms; the
Horticultural Research Institute at Mirpukhas; and the Rice Research Institute
at Dokri. Institutions undertaking livestoc'. research include the Poultry
Research and VaccinA Unit, Karachi; Central Veterinary Laboratory, Tandojam;
and six livestock experimental farms throughout thie province.
9. Rice research at Dokri has been Sind's main, and most successful, crop
research program. ,The Institute was considerably improved in 1977, and
maintains a linkage with IRRI. Other research programs have generally
undertaken routine, repetitive work with little attention paid to farmers'
problems. The Department currently has many unfilled sanctioned research
positions, and this is severely constraining crop research, particularly in
horticulture. Livastock research has been limited. The Department has also
conducted some fisheries investigations.
10. Baluchistan. Baluchistan Agriculture Department has a single crop
research institute (ARI) which has concentrated on horticulture, with some
work on irrigated wheat breeding. The Institute is weak, with only 43 of its
85 scientific positions filled. Some 18 months ago, about 40 of its
scientists working on horticulture were split from the Institute to form a
separate Deciduous Fruits Development Center (DFDC)(FAO-assisted). A DG of
Research heads ARI and reports to the Secretary of Agriculture, while DFDC
staff report to DG of Agriculture. A separate Livestock Department is
responsible for livestock research, but has not yet undertaken any. It does,
however, produce vaccine at its Veterinary Research Institute. The Arid Zone
Research Institute (AZRI), a PARC institute located near Quetta, is
undertaking much needed livestock and rainfed cropping research, and has some
good progzams.
11. NWFP. Recently, with assistance from the USAID-financed Transformation
and Integration of Provincial Agricultural Network Project (TIPAN), the
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, Mexico.
International Rice Research Institute, Philippines.



- 93 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 4
Page 4
Government of NiFP (GONWFP) transferred resFonsibility for crop and livestock
research from the Department of Agriculture to the Agricultural University,
Peshawar (AUP). This is an evolving situation and will take several years yet
to complete. AUP's main crop research group is ARI at Tarnab, which has five
substations. ARI employs 220 scientists, of whom 9 have PhDs (June 30, 1984).
Its major achievements have been in breeding temperate fruit varieties, while
it has also worked on oilseeds, maize, and fodders. The Veterinary Research
Institute at Peshawar is AUP's main livestock research group.  So far,
however, they have been more involved in livestock husbandry and vaccine
production than in research.
Private Sector Agricultural Research
12. The private sector invests little in agricultural research, although some
large cotton farms and specialized agroindustriaL businesses (for example,
Rafthan Maize Products) test, adapt, and apply research results and help to
disseminate improved techniques to cooperating and/or neighboring farmers.
Private sugar mills in Sind have established a small research and advisory
organization to investigate and advise upon agronomic practices.



- 94 -
AMNEX 2
Appendix 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT II
Provincial Agricultural Research Board
1.        A Provincial Agricultural Research Board (PRB) would be established
(consistent with the laws and regulations of the province and the Government
of Pakistan). Its main objective would be to foster an integrated approach to
research planning in agriculture, livestock, irrigation, fisheries, and
forestry to provide for more effective allocation of resources for generating
improved technology to solve the provinces' agricultural sector problems.
Functions
2.        The functions of the PRB would be to:
(1) provide overall planning, programming, resource allocation,
monitoring and evaluation of research;
(2) approve all research programs for funding by the provinces'
Department of Finance and from externally financed projects;
(3) identify provincial research priorities and broad thrusts (within
national guidelines);
(4) establish guidelines for allocating research funds to identified
research priorities;
(5) provide overall coordination and annual issuance of provincial
research master plans (PRKP);
(6)  conduct overall monitoring and external evaluation of research
programs' impact on the provinces' agricultural sector;
(7) conduct monitoring and overall coordination of the provinces'
externally financed agricultural research projects;
(8) institute regulations approved by the provincial government
affecting appointments terms and conditions of service of
professional agricultural research personnel to attract and retain



- 95 -
Appendix 5
Page 2
highly qualified scientific personnel and to create an environment
(collegiate style of management) conducive to conducting research
for solving the provinces' agricultural, livestock, irrigation,
fishery and forestry problems; and
(9) enter into contracts or agreements for the supply of technical
services, assistance or other services to the agricultural research
system of Punjab.
Management
3.        The overall direction and control of the PRB will be by a chairman
and 13 members. Its Chairman would be the province's Planning and Development
Depa'rtment's Chairman. The other PRB members would be limited to the
Secretaries of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, Forestry, Irrigation,
Finance, Vice Chancellor of the Agricultural University, Director General for
Agricultural Research, Director General for Livestock Research, Director
General for Extension, Chief of PARC's Planning Directorate, senior researcher
in agriculture and senior researcher in livestock. Appointments would be for
three years. The PRB would meet at least twice a year presided over by the
Chairman or, in his absence, by a member of the Board designated. The first
Board meeting of the year (January) would consider policy issues relating to
scientific and technical matters whereas the second meeting (July) would
consider budget and administrative matters.
4.        An executive committee would be established to serve as the
principal administrative body of PRB responsible for discharging all functions
of PRB as described in paragraph 2 and any additional functions designated by
the Provincial Government. It would be headed by a chief executive and would
include five full time PRB staff appointed to the Board. The Executive
Committee would establish a secretariat to oversee all financial,
administrative, planning, programming, monitoring and evaluation functions of
PRB. The Executive Committee would meet once a month and a other times as
required.
5.        The Executive Committee wouid establish technical Committees to
review research proposals and ongoing research in designated commodities and
disciplines and recommend them to PRB's Board for approval with its
concomitant allocation of resources. It would manage and disburse funds
allocated to the PRB from externally financed projects in accordance with
project agreements and assume overall control of implementation of such
projects. It would also collate and issue annually updated PRMPs and conduct
impact evaluations of research programs on the agricultural sector of the
province.



- 96 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 5
Page 3
6.        The chief executive of the Executive Committee of PRB would be a
senior scientist in BPS20 or higher, and his appointment would be made by the
Board through open competition from all eligible senior research scientists of
the province. Criteria for selection would include demonstrated scientific
and administrative capabilities, a minimum grade of BPS20 with at least three
years of service in that grade, a minimum of ten years of service as a
research scientist, a PhD degree from a University of good standing, and other
provincial governmental regulations required of such a higher level position.
The Chief Executive of the PRB would serve for a fixed term of five years.
7.        An alternative to establishing an executive committee would be
establishing a series of full time chdrtered committees to carry out clearly
defined functions such as new technology investigation, planning and finance,
monitoring and evaluation, recruitment and human resource development, and
professional education. These functions could be divided into three distinct
classes, that is: (i) productive; (ii) regulatory; and (iii) cocrdinative.
The PRB would still have a chief executive or Secretary-General, plus a full
time secretariat, to handle the day-to-day Board operations. The
establishment of full time chartered committees could reduce inter-
departmental and inter-personal rivalries, which are often associated with
Boards which have members from several different government departments. This
option could be more fully explored during the preparation of the provincial
research master plans.
Finance
8.       A Fund will be established to which all sums received by the PRB
shall be credited and from which all expenditures of the PRB will be debited.
The funds of the PRB would come through the provincial department of finance
and would consist of:
(1) funds from the Provincial and Federal Governments for operations of
the Board, Executive Committee and Secretariat members and staff.
Also for funding technical committees, and technical assistance;
(2)  funds from externally financed projects for disbursement and for
overall implementation as per project agreements;
(3) funds, donations, endowment, contribvtions, aid and assistance given
by other organizations; and
(4) receipts from other sources.
PRB funds should be non-lapsable. PRB may open accounts in any scheduled bank
in Pakistan. The accounts would be audited in accordance with government
procedures.



- 97 -
ANNEX 2
Appendix 5
Page 4
Reports
9.        The PRB shall furnish to the Provincial Government by the end of
each financial year a report on the activities of PRB and a summary of
accounts for that year. An updated Research Master Plan collating the
research plans from each Provincial Secretariat (Agriculture, Livestock,
Irrigation, Fisheries, Forestry) for the next te: years including estimated
budgets foir the first five years will also be submitted annually. Also, every
five years, national and international scientists of repute would conduct an
external review, in relation to previously set targets and goals of the
agricultural research programs and their management.



- 98 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Horticu!tural Research Programs
1.        This Annex is part of a longer report in the Project Implementation
Volume which details the horticultural research programs, including giving
cost estimates for each individual agency undertaking horticultural research
under the project.
2.        The project will strengthen horticultural research at the provincial
and federal levels to meet the internal demand for high-quality fruits,
vegetables and ornamentals, and for export markets. It would provide support
for key research programs through training abroad, field and laboratory
equipment, transport, some minor civil works and incremental operating funds
for the six years of the project.
3.        Horticultural research, especially in the provinces, must be
oriented to working on problems facing its fruit and vegetable growers to
maximize quality and productivity. Production of nursery stock of fruit
seedlings and vegetable seeds for sale to farmers, although an important
service, should not be a function of the research stations and should be
phased out and transferred to private nurseries and the extension services by
the end of the second year of the project. Research stations would be the
source of lasic nursery stock and seeds which would be given to the private
nurseries and extension services for propagation of certified materials.
General
4.        The overall goal of horticuitural research is increased and more
efficient production and supply of high-quality fruits, vegetables ard cut
flowers to satisfy local demand and export markets. Achieving this aim will
require good cooperation and collaboration between researchers, not only
within horticulture but also between disciplines, to develop production
packages for priority crops that will give good results under a range of
conditions. Horticultural research capabilities in Pakistan are adequate for
low-quality horticultural production for present local needs, but must be
improved to satisfy th, demands of export markets and an expanding population.
Increases in research facilities, equipment and operational funds, togAt-bhr
with staff redeployment and training are necessary for increased production
and higher quality standards in horticulture.
5.        Research managem-nt must be improved at all levels so that programs
will be more effective and the best use is made of available resources.
Careful attention must be given to establishing priorities which will be
refined and updated annually in the national and provincial master research
plans, so that research results will be of the greatest value to horticultural
industries. Good management vill have a mechanism for problem identification



- 99 -
ANNEX 3-
Page 2
and planning of appropriate research and development strategies. Interaction
with agricultural leaders, growers, extension personnel and other researchers,
along with personal observations and literature review will help in this
regard. Proper research management will include active and effective research
coordination programs, both nationwide and within provinces, to avoid
excessive overlap, to compare results and to exchange information. Joint
projects could be established between institutions within provinces and
nationwide to address problems of national importance.
6.        The shortage of adequately trained and experienced personnel for
research projects is a restraint in most areas. Optimum use of present
personnel is essential, and additional training will be required for greater
effectiveness in future programs. Overseas training would be primarily for
post-groditatA training to the Ph-D level over a 4-year period with provision
for returning to Pakistan in the second and third year in order to do Ph.D
thesis research on a Pakistan horticultural research problem. Short-term
training would also include special training or visits at appropriate leading
research centers. This will involve substantial planning and arrangement.
Returning trainees would benefit by collaboration with experienced researchers
to help them in establishing their programs. On-the-job training by
short-term technical advisors would also be beneficial.
7.        It is vitally important for researchers to keep up with current
development in their own and related disciplines. This can be accomplished in
various ways. Libraries, documentation centers, personal books, journals,
trade magazines, and newsletters provide the necessary literature. Short
courses, seminars, conferences, meetings and personal contacts can be just as
valuable. Linkages with leading research institutes where the same or similar
crops are studied is also extremely useful to research programs.
8.        Cultivar and rootstock improvement has received the greatest
attention in research programs.  These efforts should continue because of the
importance of superior cultivars, especially for export. However, a more
efficient system of screening, seleccion and development must be used since
the program is being carried out at the expense of other projects of equal or
greater importance. Breeding should not occupy a major part in cultivar
improvement programs since this is an expensive undertaking and numerous new
cultivars can be obtained from breeding programs elsewhere. The National
Agricultural Research Center (NARC) should undertake a national role in
cultivar and rootstock introduction and distribution with the advise and
coliaboration of the worid s leading experts. Researcel it) propagation should
be directed toward developing more rapid and efficient production of healthy,
high-quality, true-to-type fruit trees. Research institutes should also be
responsible for maintaining healthy, true-to-type parent trees to be used for
multiplication and sale by private nurseries.
9.        Research in horticulture and ornamental plants has largely been
neglected in spite of the increasing opportunities for export markets. This
research should be increased in all provinces but concentrated more heavily
where potential is greatest. Post-harvest crop losses and reductions in



- 100 -
hOEX-3
4age 3
quality from improper handling, storage and shipping are problems ir. all
provinces. Research in post-harvest physiology and technology should be
stressed to address these problems. NARC should take national leadership in
this work. Marketing problems are related but should be carried out in
conjunction with research workers in the AERUs.
10.       Research programs of different institutions will vary according to
their responsibilities and capabilities. NARC should concentrate mostly on
basic research requiring highly trained scientists and sophisticated equipment
to obtain basic information and to develop higher technology. Some related
applied research would also be done. Provincial research institutions would
concentrate more on applied research on problems affecting production in their
respective areas. Some basic and adaptive research could be done, depending
on need and their capabilities. The universities should undertake both basic
and applied research according to their capabilities and in line with their
responsibilities as educational institutions. A brief resume of research
topic priorities and requirements is provided for NARC and each province in
the Project Implementation Volume, Annex I, Table 17, pages 1-17. It is based
on submissions from the provinces and NARC and from mission observations.
11.       Technical assistance by successful research-rs in various aspects of
horticultural science will be required to ensure the success of the various
programs described here. A horticulturist with a strong background in fruit
production, especially tropical and sub-tropical, but with a good knowledge of
other horticultural crops will be the key person. Also needed for short terms
will be a breeder/geneticist, a crop/ost-harvest physiologist, and a plant
tissue analysis/niutrition specialist. The various technical advisors would be
responsible to PARC and be housed at NARC. They would be part of the
nationally coordinated research effort in horticulture and, as such, would
have nationwide responsibilities with their time divided between NARC and the
provinces according to need. PARC would receive support for and administer
the program to ensure an effective, coordinated effort. Details on technical
advisors are presented in Appendix 1. In addition, between 12-18 man-months
of short-term technical assistance would be provided to each province to
assist in bringing outstanding horticulturists to advise and train on specific
research problems.
12.       PARC and NARC.  The Pakis!an Agricultural Research Cosincil (PARC)
will establish its role as national coordinator for horticultural research.
NARC will be the main source for introduction and distribution of cultivars,
rootstocks and seeds to the provinces. It would be strengthened by
establishing facilities for biotechnology and post-harvest horticulture to
conduct basic research in maintaining fruits, vegetables and ornamentals in
good condition between producer and the ultimate consumer. This would involve
biochemical, physiological and tissue culture studies on ripening, senescence,
pest control, storage and processing techniques to produce high-quality
products for market. NARC would appoint a Horticultural Research Director
(Principal Research Officer) who would concentrate on pre-harvest technology
and an Assistant Director who would concentrate on post-harvest technology.
Funds would include training abroad of six Ph.Ds, 36 mm of short courses and



- 101 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
25 mm of technical assistance (Appendix 1). It would include field equipment
transport and laboratory equipment to establish post-harvest physiology,
biotechnology (including tissue culture laboratorias, processing, storage and
greenhouse facilities and incremental operating funds.
13.       Horticultural Research at NARC should be reorganized for greater
effectiveness and efficiency (Chart 1). A Horticultural Research Director
(Principal Research Officer) would have overall responsibility for research
activities. An assistant director would be involved in planning of activities
in post-harvest technology in addition to his own research activities.
Research activities would be divided among three sections: (a) horticulture,
(b) biotechnology, and (c) post-harvest physiology. Each section would
involve investigations in fruit, vegetables and floriculture. Appropriate
projects would be undertaken to address problems of national importance.
There would be a section leader within each section who would report to the
Director or Assistant Director as well as carry on some research activity.
There will be a need to redeploy some existing staff.
14.       PARC would have the responsibility of coordinating horticultural
research in Pakistan and must become much more active in this regard. The
coordinator would t.ave key contact peopls within the provinces who are working
on related projects. Coordination would include planning, review and
organization of discussion groups, meetings and conferences. It would also
Involve data collection, monitoring all horticultural research programs and
dissemination of results and information. Joint projects should be developed
on provincial and national levels and regular conferences should be held to
discuss programs and results in similar research afid rotated among the
provinces and PARC. Coordination of horticultural research in Pakistan will
involve considerable travel, correspondence and printing of informational
materials.
15.       The Horticulture Section would be involved in cultivar improvement
by both traditional and non-traditional methods, in developing new propagation
and nursery practices that would result in more rapid and efficient production
of higher quality nursery plants. They would also establish and maintain a
nucleus of pathogen-free stocks of superior new cultivars, or see to their
distribution to the appropriate agroecological zones in the provinces. The
Biotechnology Section would determine the role of endogenous hormones in
controlling vegetative growtt, flowering, fruit set and fruit drop and
discover practical methods of obtaining desirable crop load and higher quality
by application of plant grow-ch regulators.  Tisstte nulttire and
micropropagation could be used for propagation of plants which are difficult
to propagate by other means and for obtaining disease-free plant material from
heat therapy or other means. Criteria for determining the nutritional needs
of major crops through plant tissue analysis could also be developed. The
Post-harvest Physiology Section will undertake basic and some applied research
to address the problems of post-harvest fruit quality and loss. This will
involve studies to determine the effects of cultural and climatic factors and
handling, storage and shipping methods on the physiology and quality of the
fruits and vegetables. Methods of ensuring higher quality produce for foreign



- 102 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
and eomestic markets will be developed. Coordination within and between these
sections and with the provinces is essential for maximum success.
16.       Funjab.  The project would provide for strengthening of fruit
cultivar improvement and vegetable multiple cropping research at the Ayub
Agricultural Research Institute at Faisalabad and for developing the citrus
research station at Sahiwal, using a multidisciplinary approach for
determining the cause and control of citrus decline, which is significantly
reducing citrus production. Funds of about one million rupees would also be
provided to the Agriculture University's Department of Horticulture, based on
proposals acceptable to the Bank for studies on malformation control of mango
fruit and control of flowering, fruiting, dwarf rootstocks, interstocks and
nutrition of citrus. For horticultural research at the institutes, fur.ds
would be provided for training abroad of 5 Ph.Ds, 33 mm short courses and for
18 mm of technical assistance. Field and laboratory equipment, transport and
incremental operating expenses would be provided over the project's life.
17.       Particular attention should be devoted to supporting citrus research
in Punjab because of its importance and because there are some major problems
which can affect its future.  Citrus decline is the most serious problem
because it is affecting a large number of trees and its cause and contributing
factors are unknown. This research will require a concerted effort, not only
by horticulturists, but also by scientists in other disciplines. A cultivar
improvement program that will find a suitable seedless replacement for Kinnow
and extend the cropping season for citrus should also be supported. An
expansion of post-harvest physiology also is needed to deal with problems in
fruit loss and quality which will be supported with U.K. funds. This should
be part of the Nationallyr Coordinated Program. Research into vegetable
multiple cropping systems for increasing per acre yields and grower incomes
should also be supported.
18.       Sind.  Funds will be provided for strengthening horticultural
research at the vegetable research substation six km from Mirpurkhas; for
mango and citrus at the new research station at Sakrand; for banana, papaya
and chiku at a new station to be purc%ased by the Sind Government; for guava
at Naudero; and jujube at Tandojam.  Laboratory and field equipment will be
provided for pre-harvest and post-harvest research on the above-mentioned
r-ommodities. Training abroad would include 5 Ph.Ds and 30 mm of short courses
as well as 12 mm of short term technical assistance. Incremental operating
expenses would also be made available during the project's life. About one
million rupees would be provided to the Agricultural Univerity's Horticulture
Department at Tandojam based on p:oposals acceptable to the Bank for research
on control of malformation of mango, and control of flowering, fruiting, dwarf
rootstocks, interstocks and nutrition of mango.
19.       The vegetable research substation, 6 km from Mirpurkhas, would be
provided with a tubewell to lower the water table from its present level of
0.75 to 1 m from the surface and the pumped brackish water would be disposed
of in an acceptable manner, which should improve the vegetable research on the
available 8 ha. No funding is presently being provided for the main



- 10: -
Page 6
horticultural research station at Mirpurkhas because of the high water table,
waterlogging and salinity which is seriously affecting the mango trees and
stopping any viable research programs. However, an outreach program in
farmers' fields for Mirpurkhas research staff could be considered when
preparing the provincial research master plan and financing the costs of such
a program from the incremental operating funds being provided to Sind province
under the project.
20.       The Mango and Citrus Research Station appears acceptable with water
table depths averaging 6 m. A tubewell will be provided co supply additional
water to the research station since the existing tubewell is not considered
sufficient for the total area. However, salt encrustation of the soil around
the tubewell area and the ridges of the irrigation channels and the total
soluble salts (TSS) of 700 to 1,400 ppm indicates that the water is not very
satis~factory. Accordingly, funds have been provided for constructing a
connector channel to the surface canal system to mix this sweet water with or
substitute it for tubewell water, which should be periodically tested with the
provided electric conductivety meter. The 8 ha presently available is
insufficient for mango and citrus research. Agreement has been reached that
the adjacent 8 ha presenLly with the Agricultural Training Institute would be
transferred during 1989 to the Sakrand Mango and Citrus Research Station.
21.       Bananas are the second most important fruit crop (after mango) in
Sind Province accounting for about 84% of total production in Pakistan. The
proposed research station at Sujawal is unacceptable for such banana research.
Firstly, it is in an area remote from the main banar.a producing areas of Sind
Province and research's primary purpose is to assist existing banana giowers
with improved technology. Secondly, the water is quite saline according to
the Soil Chemist Report which shows from 3,500 ppm to 6,100 ppm. Accordingly,
it has been agreed that the goverrnment of Sind will purchase a minimum of 10
ha and preferably 16 to 20 ha in the banana growing region. Funds will be
provided for building an office block and these funds will be made available
upon the purchase of suitable land, acceptable to IDA, for banana, papaya and
chiku r:esearch.
22.       Major support should go towards strengthening programs of the Sind
Horticultural Research Institute with its various tropical fruit research
stations. The main aim of horticultural research in Sind is to improve yields
and quality of priority crops, particularly those that have the best potential
for export markets. T-he particular studies needed will depend on the species.
23.       Since high water tables and salinity are common in some parts of
Sind, it would be beneficial to conduct cooperative experiments with the soils
sectiont at ARI Tandojam on low volume irrigation systems and water control.
Benefits could include:
(i) greater water efficiency and greater land area irrigated;
(ii) lowering the water table and improving tree growth;



- 104 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
(iii) reductions in salinity problems; and
(iv) reduction in nitrogen losses.
24.       NWFP.  Horticultural research in the province will be strengthened
by support to fruit research at Mingora station, vegetable research at the
Tarnab Agricultural Research Institute and floriculture research at the
University's Department of Horticulture. Research on mature fruit trees would
be concentrated at Mingora and additional land obtained of at least 20 acres
to augment the existing 26 acres. Tarnab should focus on introduction of new
fruit scions and rootstocks and improved propagation techniques as well as
expanding its vegetable research. At Mingora, research would involve
evaluation of improved fruit cultivars, cultivation practices, propagation
techniques, development of low chilling varieties for peaches and other fruits
and improved quality and shelf life. Vegetable research at Tarnab would
develop high yielding cultivars including hybrids, early forcing using plastic
tunnels and improved seed production techniques. Development of new and
improved ornamentals through introduction, hybridization, evaluation and rapid
mass production techniques would be tested using tissue culture, greenhouse
and propagating equipment and other facilities at the University Department of
Horticulture. Training abroad in the research areas mentioned would include 6
Ph.Ds and 30 mm of short courses. Technical assistance of 12 mm would be
available as well as equipment, transport and incremental operating funds for
six years.
25.       The Agricultural Research Institute at Tarnab is better suited to
vegetables than fruit, and research on priority vegetable crops should be
expanded there with appropriate equipment and transport for off-station
trials. Tree crop research should be phased out with the possible exception of
screening new low-chill deciduous fruit cultivars on the best drained land; a
study on growing f-tit trees in soil with a high water table by using better
water management or flood tolerant rootstocks; and research to develop more
rapid and efficient propagation of nursery trees. Mingora is climatically
much better located for most deciduous fruit crop research. Research on
apples, pears, plums, walnuts, apricots and possibly some other deciduous
fruits should be expanded there, particularly with cultivars which mature
before the rainy season starts in July. This will require an increase in
off-station experiments with cooperative growers since there is little land
available at the research station at present.
26.       Baluchistan.  Vegetable and ornamental horticultural research w3uld
be supported at the Agricultural Research Institute, Sariab. It would include
studies on introduction of vegetable and ornamental materials and developing
improved technology for high quality production which is adaptive to the
agroecological conditions which exist in the province. The present project
would provide for training abroad of 4 Ph.Ds, 24 mm of short courses and 12 mm
of short-term technical assistance. Field, laboratory and transport equipment
and incremental operating costs for six years will also be provided.



- 105 -
ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Horticultural Research Center - NARC
Short-term rechnical Assistance - Terms of Reference
1.      Consultant on Horticultural Research
Oualifications and Experience. ;he consultant should .old a research degree
in horticulture and have a strong backgr,.lmd in fruit crops, particularly
sub-tropical and tropical fruits, and good knowledge of vegetable production.
He should have at least ten years experience in applied horticultural research
and at least two years experience working with fruit crops in developing
countries.
Station. The consultant will be responsible to the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council, Islamabad.
Period of Work. The consultant will work in-country for 18 months over the
six year-project period, preferably spending six months in-country during the
first year and with flexibility in the use of the remaining time to coincide
with critical developmental stages of priority crops. At least six weeks
would be spent in-country in any one year during the project period.
Duties. The consultant will assist in the planning and implementation of
research in horticultural crops at both national and provincial research
institutions and in the interpretation and presentation of research results.
He will serve as resource person for information and programs in horticultural
crops, making available to Pakistani scientists the latest technology in
horticultural science and all relevant documentation.
He will aid in the development of more effective coordinated horticultural
research programs for Pakistan and assist in seminars, conferences,
information exchange and publication.
He will aid in estab.ishing a more effective linkage between research and
extension and in providing for a more effective transfer of appropriate
production technology.
He will review horticultural research programs and provide advice for making
them more effective.
He will help identify problems, determine research priorities and assist in
designing experiments which will provide effective answers.
He will advise in the selection of appropriate equipment and materials and
provide training in their use.



- 106 -
Appendix 1
Page 2
He will provide advice and aid in the introduction of appropriate plant
materials, help establish a more efficient system of cultivar evaluation and
aid in establishing an effective clonal protection program.
He will assist in liaison with related disciplines and programs with the
purpose of establishing a more integrated approach to solving serious problems
and to developing better crop managemint systems.
He will aid in establishing stronger contacts with leading horticultural
institutions in the world for the purposes of obtaining rele% t new
information, arranging mutual visits, training and collaborativb research.
2.  Consultant on Ph_siologv of Horticultural Crops
Oualifications and ExRerience. The consultant should hold a research degree
in plant physiology or horticulture with at least 10 years of laboratory
experience in crop and post-harvest physiology of horticultural crops.
Station. The consultant will be responsible to the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council, Islamabad.
Period of Work. The consultant will work in-country for four months over a
period of two years.
Duties.  The consultant will assist in the planning, establishment and
operation of crop and post-harvest physiology laboratories at NARC and aid in
developing better capabilities in the provinces. He will also assist in
designing experimental programs.
He will, with the collaboration of the Horticulture Section, assist in
evaluating environmental and cultural practices that influence post-harvest
quality.
He will aid in studies to determine the biochemistry and physiology of
chemical regulators for growth and development of horticultural crops.
He will assist in studies on the mov,,ication of growth and development
processes in horticultural crops through application of chemicals.
He will aid in studies of biochemical and physiological processes during
maturation and post-harvest storage that influence quality.
He will assist in evaluating the effects of post-harvest prestorage treatments
and storage conditions on biochemical and physiological processes that
influence storage life.
He will train Pakistani scientists in instrumentation and proper techniques
used in crop and post-harvest physiology studies.



- 107 -                           ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
3. Consultant on Plant Tissue Analysis/Plant Nutrition
Oualifications and Exp.Jienc. The consultant shouild have a research degree
and at least five years experience in plant tissue analysis as it applies to
the nutrition of horticultural crops.
Station. The consultant will be responsible to the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council.
Period of Work. The consultant will work in-country for three months over a
two-year period. It would also be useful for a Pakistani scientist to train
in the consultant's own laboratory.
Duties. The consultant will assist in the planning and establishment of a
plant tissue analys!s laborato.y for horticultural crops at NARC and aid other
laboratories in developing effective programs.
He will train Pakistani scientis?s in plant tissue analysis and aid them in
developing criteria for determining nutritional deficiencies and fertilization
programs, based on the analysis of leaves or other plant parts.



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Organizational Chart for NARC Horticultural Research
Horticultural Research Director
Principal Horticultural Research Officer
- Assistant Director
0l
Horticultural Section                      Biotechnology Section                  Postharvest Physiology
(4 Research Officers)                      (5 Research Officers)                   and Quality Section
(4 Research Officers)
(Cultivar Improvement,                     (Crop Physiology,
New Cultural Practices,                      Plant Tissue Analysis,               (Handling, Storage,
New Nursery Practices)                      Tissue Culture)                        Shipping, Quality,
Analysis)
Related DisciDlines                      Social Science Unit
Plant Pathology                     Horticultural Development
Entomology/IPM                        and Market Evaluation
Soil Science                            Research Projects



- 109 -
AMNEX 4
Page 1
PAKISTAJN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Livestock Research Programs
A. Proiect ComRonents
General
1.          This annex is part of a longer report in the Project
Implementation Volume which details the livestock research programs. The
report covers, among other things, present status of livestock research in
Pakistan and research priorities, and includes detailed cost tables for each
individual component the project would finance.
Nationally Coordinated Programs
2.          Dairy cattle Drogram.  The project will support research to
increase milk production from dairy cattle conditional upon a review of past
activities and the formulation of a research plan for the future. The budget
has been framed on the basis that many of the present participating
institutions would continue to be involved in the program and the items of
equipment are of a general nature and not dependent on specific details of the
program. Support for this program will be conditional upon a review of the
program.
3.          Buffalo program.  The project will support research to increase
the productivity of buffaloes. Support will be conditional upon the program
containing elements of reproductive physiology, selection, nutrition of
breeders, fattening excess male calves and cull cows and animal health. Cost
estimates include transport for an out-reach program and equipment.
PARC/NARC
4.          The project will support the development of the AZRI sub-station
at Umarkot, plus the provision of key items of equipment, transport and
operating expenses.
5.          The project will assist AZRI Headquarters in the purchase of
equipment, staff training and research operating funds. These components are
complementary to the ICARDA-AZRI project.
6.          The Range and Watershed Section at NARC will be given support in
the form of field equipment, transport and operating expenses for the
development of a ranching model for Pothwar tract, Islamabad district.
7.          The project will provide technical assistance for the
forage/pasture, rangeland feed resources research program under the auspices
of PARC.
8.          The project all also provide funds for a review of research on
indigenous breeds of livestock - particularly sheep, goats and cattle.



- 110 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Puni ab
9.          The project will provide equipment for the Faculty of Veterinary
Science, Agricultural University, Faisalabad, to improve post-graduate
training. The Faculty of Animal Husbandry will be similarly assisted.
10.         The project will provide key items to equip a virus laboratory at
the College of Veterinary Sciences, Lahore, and also some new items of
equipment for the Nutrition Department at the same Institution.
11.         The Feeding and Management Division at the Livestock Production
Research Institute will be assisted by the provision of transport and
operating funds.
12.         The project provides for the training of four PH.D. students and 4
M.Sc. students overseas. Details of the areas of training and the
Institutions involved are provided in Table 1. There is also provision for
attendance at short courses, overseas post-doctoral tr.ining, and local
training. Six man-months of technical assistance is also provided.
Sind
13.         Laboratory equipment will be purchased for the Department of
Animal Nutrition, Faculty of Animal Husbandry, Agricultural University,
Tandojam, and equipment associated with livestock feeding studies will be
purchased for the Livestock Experimental Station attached to the same Faculty.
14.         The project will purchase equipment for the Animal Reproduction
Department which will improve the standard of post-graduate training.
15.         The project will :issist the Livestock and Fisheries Department to
establish r_search facilities at the livestock farms at Tando Muhammed Khan
and Rohri by providing key items to equip a nutrition laboratory, and
operating funds to enable the laboratory to function adequately.
16.         Details of support for training programs are given in Table 1.  A
total of 12 Ph.D. and 3 M.Sc. positions is included in the project in addition
to provisions for post-doctoral training, short courses, and local training.
Technical assistance of 6 man-months is also included in the project.
Baluchistan
17.         The project will support the development of a nutrition laboratory
in the Livestock Department to enable proximate analyses of feed to be carried
out.
18.         The allocation for training includes three Ph.D. students, 6 M.Sc.
students, 6 man-months for short-term studies and 108 man-months for local
training. Details on priority areas of training for Ph.D. and M.Sc. degrees
are given in Table 1. Six man-months of technical assistance are also
included in the project for Baluchistan.
North West Frontier Province



- 111 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 3
19.         The project will purchase key items for a nutrition laboratory to
upgrade post-graduate research facilities in the Faculty of Animal Husbandry,
Agricultural University, Peshawar.
20.         The project will also provide transport, equipment and operating
funds to upgrade the research capability of the Directorate, Livestock
Research and Development in NWFP at the Livestock Research Farm, Surezai.
21.         An allocation for training six Ph.D. students and 3 M.Sc. students
has been made in the project. Details are given in Table 1. The project will
also support 12 man-months of short-term training and 108 man-months of local
training. Technical assistance of 6 man-months will also be provided.
B. Component ImRlementation
22.         The implementation of the livestock component of the project will
be assisted by the PPIUs to be established in the Provinces and by a PIU
within PARC at the national level.
23.         The purchase of vehicles and equipment is, in general, phased for
the first year or two of the project. In most cases funding has been provided
for the more robust and suitable 4WD vehicles (approximately PRs450,000 each)
rather than the cheaper, unsuftable models costing approximately PRsl70,000.
This has been done with the clear intention of providing the most suitable
vehicles for the purposes for which they will be used.
C. Staff Training Needs
24.         This is a major cost in this component,  It was only at the time
of the pre-appraisal mission that information became available on the number
of staff in educational and research  organizations and their qualifications.
Information also became available at that time on the numbers of students who
had completed their training under PARC sponsorship and those currently
undertaking training.  It was pointed out during project preparation that:-
(i) three times more students have been/are being trained at Ph.D.
level compared with M.Sc. level.
(ii) three times more students are sent for animal production courses
rather than animal health, and that
(iii) three out of every four students are domiciled in the Punjab.
25.         The proposals under ARP II do not fit this pattern for the
following reasons:-
(i) for some Provinces and for some areas of training requested, M.Sc.
tr_.ning is more appropriate, resulting in a higher proportion of
M.Sc. trainees compared with Ph.D. trainees under ARP II,
(ii) more trainees were requested for animal production courses than
for animal health courses, and
(iii) there was a conscious decision to offer more trainees positions to
Sind, Baluchistan and NWFP than Punjab, in the hope that, with



- 112 -
AMENX 4
Page 4
additional in-country training, these traineeships would be filled
and in time these Provinces would have a more appropriate number
of scientists with overseas post-graduate training.
26.       In relation to overseas post-graduate training, Ph.D. candidates
would undertake their experimental work in Pakistan, and the student's
supervisor would be encouraged to travel to the Institution in Pakistan where
the student would work, in order to familiarize himself with all aspects
associated with that part of the Ph.D. program. For the purposes of the
experimental work, there should be a co-supervisor based in the Pakistan
Institution where the work would be carried out. Funds for travel and
expenses of both supervisor and student are included in training costs. Costs
for Ph.D. programs overseas are based on four years of study. It is
considered that this is a more realistic figure than three years, based on
past experience.
27.       Funds have been provided for staff to undertake short-term studies
and post-doctoral training overseas, without specifying the details. It is
expected that the normal length of these programs would be between three and
six months. Funds provided for local training are intended for use at both
Pakistan Institutions and for the attendance at Workshops and similar
activities organized by consultants under the Technical Assistance provided
for in the livestock component.
D. Technical Assistance
28.       The project will provide funds for technical assistance in a number
of areas as follows:-
(i) Dairy Cattle Breeding: Data Analysis and Breeding Programs;
(ii) Pasture, Forage and Rangeland Feed Resources Research;
(iii) animal Breeding: Development of Indigenous Breeds;
(iv) Ruminant Nutrition;
(v) Animal Health.
The Terms of Reference for Consultants are provided in Appendix 1.
29.       The allocations for technical assistance in dairy cattle (cross)
breeding, development of indigenous breeds, and pasture, forage and rangeland
research have been assigned to PARC as this assistance would be for national
research programs, and the intention is that, both NARC and the Provinces
would be the beneficiaries of this assistance. On the other hand, the intent
is that for other technical assistance nominated for livestock research, the
Provinces determine what proportion of their total allocation they use for
ruminant nutrition and what proportion for animal health.



PAKISTAn
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH _l PROJECT
Livestock Training Program
Province                                                Ph.D                                ".SC.                     Shbn^-    i-et-      Local
C4ursee   toctor sl Training
(m/r)     (n/r)     (/rn)
1.  PUNJAH   Total                                              4                                   4                          12        12        96
(t)  LPRI                              l. Animal breeding : embryo transfer    1. Animal breeding statistics
1. Animal breeding/nutrition            l. Livestock econom it   m marketing
1. Ruminant nutrition                    1. Livestock managemnt  bousing/
nutrition dairy animals
(11)  Vet. Researcb Institute                                                    t. Epidemiology and animal health        -          -
economice
(1i1)  College of Veterinary Science    1. Virology                                             _                           _
(iv)  Livestock 6 Dalry Development                                                                                       6          6
Deprtment
(v)  AU. Faiselabad                                       -                                   -                          6          6
2. SIND  Total                                                 12                                   3                          18        is       ISO
(1)  Livestock & Fisheries Dept.       l. Ruminant nutrition                    l. Epidemiology atd animal health        12         6
1. Buffalo reproduction                  . Animal  breeding i statistics
1. Range manageent                      l. Livestock econoisot   marketing
1. Poultry mtrition
1. Virology
1. Livestock _anagoemnt
(11)  AU. Tandojam                     Support for 6 Ph.D. candidates                          -                           6        12                                *
details yet to be supplied
3.  SALUCHISTAN : Total                                         3                                   6                           6         -       108
(1)  Llvestock Departent               l. Ruelnaat nutrition                   1. Rminant nutrition                      6          -
1. Animal breeding                       I. Animal breeding   statistics
1. Ra_ge mngement                        1. Epidemiology and animal health
I. Virology
1. Livestock economist : marketing
l. Livestock magement
4.  NORTIH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE   Total                       6                                   3                          12         -       108
(1)  Directorate. Livestock            l. Poultry nutrtiton                     1. Livestock economist   marketing       12         -
Research  nd Developmnt in        1. Cattle nutrition                      1. Houaing/nutrition dairy cattle
NWFP and Faculty of Animal        2. Grazing management
Husbandry. AU. Peshawar           l. Animal breeding
1. Sheep/goat nutrition
S        .MERA R                                R Tatnl         2                                   4                          12g        - n   e  
(F ) AZRI T. Rlnge ecoloy                                                       l Rane ecoloy 
1. Range management                     2. Range management
l. Range nutrition
I/ Overseas.
2/ For Notional Dairy Cattle Cross-breeding Project.



- 114 -
ANNEX 4
AFpendix 1
Page 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.  Consultant on Pastures. Forages and Rangeland Feed Resources
Qualifications and Experience.  The consultant should have, a research degree
and preferably be a staff member of an International research institute or a
University department or equivalent, and working at the animal production -
feed resource interface. The consultant should have experience working in
developing countries with different climatic environments and where rangelands
are communally grazed.
Duties. The consultant will be responsible to PARC, Islamabad. The
consultant will work in-country for 5 months over the 6-year project period.
The consultant will undertake a review of research, from an animal production
perspective, on feed resources in the pasture, forage and rangeland
categories. The review should contain appropriate recommendations in relation
to this research.
The consultant will assist in the planning and implementation of research on
pasture, forage and rangeland feed resources.
The consultant will organize workshops for Pakistani scientists involved in
research on pasture forage and rangeland feed resources.
The consultant will liase with Pakistani scientists working in other areas of
feed resources and be consulted on aspects of integrating research on feed
resources.
B. Consultant on Animal Breeding: Development of Indigenous Breeds
gualifications and ExRerience. The consultant should have a research degree
and preferably be a staff member of an International research organization, a
University or equivalent. He should have experience in animal breeding in
developing countries, in relation to development of indigenous breeds.
Duties. The consultant will be responsible to PARC. The consultant is
required to review research on indigenous breeds of sheep, cattle and goats
and make appropriate recommendations about the research effort in this area.
One man-month has been funded for this review.
C. Consultant on Dairy Cattle Cross-breeding Research
Qualifications and Experience. The consultant should have a research degree
and preferably be a staff member of an International research organization or
University department or equivalent. He should have experience in developing
countries in tropical areas with practical knowledge of the problems of
introducing Bos taurus dairy breeds into climatically hostile environments and
cross-breeding with Bos indicus breeds. He should be conversant with computer
programs designed to collect, collate and interpret data on animal breeding.



- 115 -
ANNEX 4L
Appendix 1
Page 2
DuiesI&. The consliltant will be responsible to PARC, Islamabad. The
consultant will work in-country for 6 months over the life of the project with
flexibility in the use of time.
The consultant will undertake a review of past research of dairy cattle
cross-breeding programs in Pakistan and make recommendations on future
directions for research.
He will assist in the planning and implementation of research on dairy cattle
cross-breeding.
The consultant will convene workshops for Pakistani scientists working in this
area.
D.  Consultant on Ruminant Nutrition
Oualifications on Egerience.  The consultant should have a research degree
and preferably be a staff member of an International research institute or
University or equivalent. He should have experience in ruminant nutrition in
developing countries with practical knowledge of thi feeding problems faced by
smallholder li-vestock farmers.
Duties.
The consultant will be responsible to the Province, and will work in-country
for three months.
The consultant will convene workshops on priority areas of ruminant rlutritioe
research.
He will liase with other technical assistance staff provided under the project
to ensure co-ordination of efforts directed at the improved nutrition of
ruminants.
E. Consultant on Animal HeAlth
Oualifications and Exoerience. The consultant should have a research degree,
and preferably be a staff member of an International institute or University
or equivalent. He should have experience in the research of diseases of
importance to Pakistan l.ivestock.
Du-ties. The consultant will be responsible to the Province, and will work
in-country for three months.
The consultant will assist in the planning and implementation of research into
diseases of importance to Pakistan livestock.
The consultant will become familiar with the national epidemiology and
economics program and take account of any research implications arising from
this project.
The consultant will convene workshops for Pakistani scientists related to
research on the major disease of livestock in Pakistan.



116 -
ANNEX S
Page 1
pAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Soil Science Research
Introduction
1.        Soil Science has been identified as a priority area in Pakistan's 1988
National Commission of Agriculture. This is rightly so, since crop output is
a mainstay of the national economy and crop output is ultimately dependent on
the optimal supply of water, nutrients and solar energy -- and the study of all
three of these is included within the soil science discipline.
2.        The Soil Science component of the APR-II prcject is designed to
strengthen existing provincial research -- which is mainly concerned with crop
nutrient supply (Soil Fertility and soil Chemistry) and also to add a new
capability to do research on soil and crop environment physics (soil physics).
3.        Soil physics is concerned with such factors as the structure of the
soil, the movement of water (and salts) into, through and out of the soil and
with the need for and supply of water to the crop. Thus, it has implications
in tillage and seedbed production, in irrigation scheduling and crop water-use
efficiency, in the reclamation of saline soils, in the methods and design of
drainage systems and in techniques for water harvesting and storage in rainfed
areas.
4.        The detailed proposals for these two thrusts -- Soil Fertility and
Soil PhysLcs -- are elaborated in the sections below.
Soil Physics
5.        The project will set up a soil physics 'unit' as part of the Soil
Science section of the main research center of each Province. Because of the
major concentration of intensive irrigated agriculture in the Punjab, it is
proposed to set up soil physics units at both Lahore and Fai. alabad. There will
also be a similar unit at NARC, Islamabad, and a nat5onal coordinator established
in PARC from where the national program of soil physics research will be
coordinated.
6.        Each of these six units will be staffed by two senior scientists
(1 grade 18 and 1 grade 17), supported by four junior staff (2 grade 14,
1 administrative, grade 12 and 1 driver, grade 5). Provision has been made for
these posts to be filled by additional staff, but it may be possible to fill some
posts by transfer from areas of lower priority.
7.        Provision has been made for the senior scientist to be sent for
training, to PhD level. It has been assumed that this will take place in years
2-4, the first year being needed for selection and preparatory training.
Provision has also been made to enable the person to carry out his research
project on a topic of importance to Pakistan and to actually do the practical
work in Pakistan. Funds are also available for his Supervisor to make short



- 117 -
Page 2
visits to Pakistan; such visits should also be used to guide and train the other
soil physics staff in the section. Since the discipline of soil physics is new
to existing Pakistan scientists, the research topic and the appropriate overseas
University will be chosen during the first year by the Expert appointed to
provide Technical Assistance (see para 2.14).
8.        Additional training will also be provided to each unit as 6 man-months
of training available for short courses. This is so that the other scientist
within each unit can acquire appropriate technique skills, for example in
instrument operation.   It may also be appropriate for the head of the Soil
Science section to have some exposure to soil physics research, possibly at the
same University as his soil physicist is attending, to help him with his research
direction in this new field.
9.        Funds for the purchase of equipment for soil physics research have been
made available to each unit.   Since the precise equipment needed will vary
somewhat deperding on the likely research topics to be investigated, the funds
have generally been scheduled for year 2, to allow time for the visiting Expert
to advise on both the most appropriate research programs and the equipment
needed. Although the full amount of money has been scheduled at that time, it
would be very reasonable if not all of it were spent initially, but some retained
for additional equipment identified as necessary as the research progresses.
10.       Equipment likely to be widely needed includes a neutron problem for
field studies of water profiles and pressure plate apparatus for laboratory
studies of soil water holding properties. Meteorological equipment (preferably
with output in machine-readable form) will also be essential as will computer
facilities to handle the enormous amounts of data that such research generates.
A double-cab pick-up has been allocated as essential for transporting the
electron problem to the field and for handling the soil samples.
11.       Operational expenses, for both field and laboratory work have been
scheduled from year 3 onwards as it will take some time before the units are
staffed, equipped and ready to embark on a research program.   Funds have,
however, been provided earlier to the coordinator (grade 19) to enable him and
the Expert to initiate the national program.
12.       Funds for equipment and operating expenses have also been allocated
to the Agricultural Universities at Faisalabad and Tandojam to help them to
provide teaching and research in Soil Physics.
13.       Details of the funds allocated to each unit are shown in Appendix 1,
and detailed cost estimates are shown in the Project Implementation Volume,
Annex 3.
14.       A total of 24 mm of technical assistance nas been allocated to enable
the coordinated program to be initiated smoothly and promptly.   The Expert
appointed would assist the coordinator to:
- assess the immediate priority areas for soil physics research in each
Province;
- select suitable staff for PhD training;



- 118 -
Page 3
* select suitable universities for the research topics chosen;
- decide on the equipment needed;
- initiate the training of support staff;
- prepare an indicative plan for the first ten years program of research
in soil physics.
Detailed terms of reference for this Technical Assistance is given in Appendix 2.
Soil Chemistr~/Soil Fertility
15.       There has been an ongoing program of work on soil fertility for the
last three decades.  This program has established the widespread requirement for
additional nitrogen and phosphate, shown the need for zinc on rice and has
established general fertilizer recommendations for the major crops.  However,
much of the activity is based on single replicate trials with only a limited
range of nutrient rates and so is aimed more at popularizing fertilizer use than
at research on precise fertilizer requirements.
16.       There is also a strong bias towards laboratory work.  Such work is
appropriate to widespread survey activities -- but this has largely been
completed.  Laboratory analysis is also relevant to assessing the quality of
irrigation water and to estimating the need for gypsum application to prevent
salinization or for reclamation. Soil analysis also has some value in adjusting
the fertilizer recommendations for phosphate and pouash, but its value should
not be over-estimated. Soil analysis is not a tool for giving precise fertilizer
recommendations; for the major nutrient nitrogen it is of very little value.
Hence PARC's request to set up a soil analysis control laboratory at MARC was
not supported in the Project Preparation Report11 and this refusal is endorsed
by this mission.
17.       The preparation report did suggest that there should be a nationally
coordinated program to assess the results of the data collected so far and to
calibrate the soil analytical methods ir. use. This is not necessary for several
reasons.
- The National Fertilizer Development Center (NFDC) has already assembled
and coordinated much of the data, without being able to derive much
value from the compilation.
- Unless the scientist collating the data is aware of the program in the
field, there is no way of eliminating spurious effects which, if
included, invalidate the sound data.
- The interpretation of the experimental results requires the
simultaneous collection of supporting data, such as past cropping and
fertilizer use, weather conditions before and during crop growth, water
if   Agricultural Research II Project, 165/87 CP-PAK 41, 18 December 1987, Annex
5.



- 119 ^
Page 4
use and possible leaching, and s. on. The supporting data required
will vary with the nut:ient being studied. It is certain that much
of this supporting data, essential for interpretati in, is not available
for past experiments.
18.       Instead, there should be a nationally coordinated program to produce
more site-specific fertilizer recommendations. This should be a new research
program of field work that is based on measuring response curves and determining
economic optimal and the program should be designed to understand the reasons
for the differences in response that are found.
19.       This   will   require   a   clearer   separation   of   the   current
extension-orientated activities (e.g., advisory analysis and fertilizer
demonstration trials) from the research activity proper. The research activity
should be a joint effort by Chemistry and Fertility staff (where these are
currently separated) and the research team should also include the soil physicist
where appropriate. It will also require the scientists to closely monitor the
field work so that they are fully aware of all that is happening.   This is
essenitial to obtain high quality results and to aid the scientists in their task
of spotting possible reasons for observed differences.
20.       Coordination should be carried out jointly by the National Fertilizer
Development Center (NFDC) (if willing) and PARC. NFDC have much to offer such
a program, they have easy access through FAO to international activity in this
field, they have considerable expertise in fertilizer use research themselves
and also considerable expertise in computer-based data storage, handling and
interpretation. They can also supply expertise in computer modelling -- which
will be an essential part of correctly interpreting and using the research data.
21.       The first priority for research, and the major part of the program,
should be on nitrogen. This is the nutrient which costs the country and its
farmers the most amount of money and where the greatest financial gains are to
be had from optimizing its use.  Since nitrogen is so mobile a nutrient and
undergoes so many transformations in soil, it is necessary to base the research
program on the nitrogen cycle with the twin objectives of estimating the amount
of nitrogen that becomes available to the crop from soil sources and how best
to add the additional fertilizer nitrogen that is needed for optimum crop growth.
22.       It is generally the experience round the world that soil nitrogen
supply cannot be estimated by soil analysis but requires estimates based on such
factors as residues from previous cropping, losses by leaching, denitrification,
and so on. Similarly, the value of the added fertilizer frequently depends on
minimizing the various loss mechanisms - - particularly on minimizing ammonia loss
from urea.  Thus, there will have to be a detailed program of basic work on
nitrogen transformations in soil alongside the field work on response to
nitrogen, so that all the necessary supporting data from the field work is
collected. It is also likely that an approach based on modelling the nitrogen
cycle and quantifying the components in specific locations will be the most
fruitful.
23.       Next in financial impo-tance is work on phosphate.  Since fertilizer
residues accumulate in soil, palt of the work needs to be very long-term in
nature (that is, research station based) and part needs to be in farmers' fields



- 120 -                         ANNX
Page 5
but rotation-based. This makes the determination of economic optimal somewhat
difficult, but the long-term effects do need to be taken into account. It is
likely that soil analysis may be found useful in making site-specific
recommendations.
24.       There is considerable work currently on potash.   Under the arid,
irrigated conditions in Pakistan, potash is likely to remain the least deficient
of the three major nutrients but some basic work on the quantity and release rate
of non-exchangeable pocash is warranted as is the determination of economic
optimal in those crop and soil conditions which have already been identified as
potash responsive. Work also needs to continue (until such time as a decision
can be taken) to evaluate the use of potassium chloride as potash source since
this is much cheaper than currently used sulphate.
25.       Work carried out so far should have already identified those crop and
soil conditions where secondary nutrients are currently important. For example,
zinc problems in rice and iron in fruit production. At current levels of crop
yield it is unlikely that responses to secondary nutrients in general will be
very economic and therefore a widespread program of fertilizer trials on such
nutrients is unlikely to be rewarding.
26.       An alternative approach is to carry out some multi-discipline research
which has the aim of identifying the constraints to achieving potential yield.
Potential yield can be determined, for a given crop, from solar energy input
during its growth period, photosynthetic efficiency, and harvest index. If this
potential is not being approached under research conditions, then it is a very
instructive research project to try to attain such yields.  The constraints are
as likely to be aspects of the cultivation system (irrigation schedule, plant
density, disease control) as they are to be nutritional, but an increased
nutrient supply, including supplementary secondary nutrients, should be included
as possible factors. It is, however, vital that the research should be wider
than simply nutrition.
27.       The ARP II project will provide funds to support the provincial
research centers continue with a soil chemistry/soil fertility research program.
Most provinces have already suggested that new Soil Science Institutes should
be formed. The mission feels strongly that new Institutes are counter-productive
in creating unnecessary barriers to team-work in research and would prefer to
see soil scientists working together in research groups or sections. Although
some staff expsnsion is necessary, in some provinces, to provide viable research
groups, this should be done gradually and should spread into the next project
-- ARP III. Consequently, only limited expansion of soil science staff has been
supported in this project.
28.       The first essential in this project is to formulate programs of work
that are research (rather than extension) orientated and which address the
national and provincial priority areas within soil science.
29.       The mid-term review should examine these plans for their relevance,
using them as a monitor of progress of the project.
30.       The funds will provide training (to PhD level) where there is a lack
of trained staff, equipment for laboratory and field work related to a research



- 121 -
Page 6
program (but not for advisory analysis) and operating funds to support the
research program. A sum has also been allocated to each province to supply
approprice scientific journals (for both soil chemistry and soil physics) to
enable the scientists to keep up to date with their subject.  The details of
allocations to specific Centers are shown in Appendix 3.
31.       In addition to its joint coordinating role, the research at NARC should
provide more basic supporting information to supplement the provincial work.
For example, any work on clay mineralogy, in support of provincial work on
non-exchangeable potassium, should be done at NARC where appropriate facilities
exist. Similarly, any N15 studies in the nitrogen program or P32 studies in the
phosphate program should be either commissioned by or carried out at NARC, to
avoid proliferation of such facilities. Funds to equip and operate such programs
are provided in the project.
Soil Biochemistry (ARI, Faisalabad)
32.       The  Soil  Biochemistry  research program  at  the Ayub  Institute,
Faisalabad includes work on the use of sewage effluent in agriculture. This is
relevant to the aims of the project in that it seeks to use waste water without
causing damage to the soil. Funds have therefore been provided for equipment
and operating costs to support this research.
Soil Microbiology (ARI, Faisalabad)
33.       The project proposal contained a small component to provide equipment
for measuring biological nitrogen fixation. This equipment has already been
obtained from other sources and therefore this component has been deleted.
Soil Survey (Lahore)
34.       Information from the existing soil survey can be of value to the soil
fertility research program in identifying major soil types, characterizing
research sites, providing background soil properties, etc. Such information is
tedious to extract from the current printed reports but could be more readily
available if the information were on computer. The original proposal was to
supply both computer hardware and software for this computerization to occur.
However, the Soil Survey Institute has already obtained equipment and has made
a start on transferring the data to computer.  What is needed now is the means
to communicate this data to potential users and therefore the project will supply
funds for appropriate digitizing and plotting equipment and software, also
Technical Assistance or, alternatively, short-course training in its use.
Irrigation Research
35.       The Mission feels that the efficient use by farmers of Pakistan's most
scarce resource -- water -- is so vital that research support should be given
in addition to that being provided by the establishment of a research program
on soil physics. Consequently, although no specific component in this area was
prepared and included in this project, the mission has included some funds (Rs.
10.0 million) in project costs for such a component.



- 122 -
ABUE 5
Page 7
36.       Work on water use efficiency at farm level is being conducted by the
Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources at their Drainage and Reclamation
Institute of Pakistan (DRIP). The mission have therefore requested PARC have
the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources, in association with the
Bank's Resident Mission, prepare a suitable component that can be included in
this project.
Monitoring
37.       The Soil Physics planned sequence of development is set out in paras 5
to 14. Critical stages are:
(a)  the appointment of an Expert for TA early in year 1;
(b)  sending appointed staff for overseas training in year 2; and
(c)  the preparation of detailed research plans by end year 2.
38.       Since Soil Chemistry/Soil Fertility research is part of an on-going
program, the monitoring of the part funded by this project is quite difficult
and will require close supervision. Initially, success can best be judged by
the quality and relevance of the annual research prograns and the extent to which
these recognize the separate (but complementary) functions of research and
extension.
39.       Success would also be indicated if the various branches of soil science
(chemistry, physics, fertility, biochemistry, microbiology) were all combining
in their attack on research problems such as quantifying the nitrogen cycle and
even more so if real multi-disciplinary teams had been created for project work.
40.       .n the longer term, the success of the training activity can only be
judged subjectively by an improvement in the quality of research management,
leadership and planning -- which hopefully will then lead to research results
of increased value to the agriculture of Pakistan.



- 123 -
ANNEX S
Appendix 1
Page 1
SOIL PHYSICS FUNDS BY INSTITUTE 1/
Federal - NArG
1.        Provision has been made for a coordinator (grade 19), supporting staff,
equipment (years 1 & 2), and a vehicle. The operating funds have been increased
for years 1 and 2 to allow ample funds for the Expert as well as coordinating
expenses and research expenses.   The PhD training is available for the
coordinator or for the support staff, as needed.
Puniab - Lahore (Soil Fertility)
2.        Funds for a standard 'Unit' have been provided.  It has been assumed
that the senior scientist will be appointed in year 1 and sent for training in
years 2 to 5.  Since he should be doing his research in Pakistan in years 3
and 4, funds for equipment and the vehicle have been made available in year 2
so that they are available on time. Operating funds and support staff have been
scheduled from year 3 onwards.
4.        Funds for short-course training have been made available in years 2
and 4. This is to allow introductory training of the section head, if necessary,
before support staff arrive.   Training of support staff,  for example in
instrument techniques, is also provided for. It is intended that this allocation
for training should be used very flexibly, as needs are identified and not
necessarily used only in the years specified.
Punjab - Faisalabad (Soil Chemistry)
5.        Funds for a standard 'Unit' have been provided.   The underlying
assumptions are as in paras 5 and 6.
Sind - Tandojam
6.        A standard unit, excapt that provision has been made for capital
expenditure on laboratory refurbishing, construction of greenhouse, etc., to
provide accommodation for the soil physics activity.
Baluchistan - Sariab
7.        Funds for a standard 'Unit' have been provided.   The underlying
assumptions are as in paras 5 and 6.
NWFP - Tarnab
8.        Funds for a standard 'Unit' have been provided.   The underlying
assumptions are as in paras 5 and 6.
V   The Project Implementation Volume includes detailed cost tables.



- 124 -                        ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
University of Puniab at Faisalabad
9.        Provision has been made for equipment and operating expenses for Soil
Physics teaching and research at the University.
University of Sind at Tandolam
10.       Provision has been made for equipment, post-Doctorate training and
operating expenses for Soil Physics teaching and research at the University.



- 125 -
ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SOIL PHYSICS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Oualifications of Expert
1.        The primary requirement is for the expert to have the ability to assess
the gaps in current knowledge and research activities in Pakistan and so frame
a research program in soil physics that will correctly address the deficiencies
identified.
2.        He should have post-Doctorate experience in soil physics research and
preferably have experience in planning and managing the research of a team of
scientists.
Tasks of Expert
3.        With the coordinator, visit Institutes and Universities in Pakistan
to assess the current state of relevant research and to identify the gaps in
knowledge that need to be filled by a national team of soil physicists. This
is particularly necessary since areas such as water use efficiency on farm and
irrigation scheduling tend to fall in the gap between Irrigation Institutes and
Agricultural Institutes.
4.        Decide on priority topics for initial research for each of the six
research units.
From information provided by the Soil Survey, the major soil problems appear to
be:
Area affected
('000 ha)
Workability of soil/structural problems/seedbed problems              4.5
Salinity/sodicity problems                                            3.0
Excessive percolation (irrigation scheduling problems)                1 5
Impeded drainage                                                      0.5
Rainfed area - water infiltration and storage                         3.7
This list will need to be revised and the topics to be studied allocated
appropriately to each province.
5.        Assist in the recruiting of senior staff for each unit, allocate to
them their research topics and help arrange suitable University placings for
these studies.
6.        Assist in choosing and ordering the appropriate equipment for the
priority tasks of each unit.
7.        Prepare a master plan of the research program for the units, in detail
for five years and indicatively for the following five years.



- 126 -
Appendix 3
Page 1
FUNDS FOR SOIL CHEMISTRY/SOIL FERTILITY BY INSTITUTE'
Punjab - Soil Fertility (Lahore and Faisalabad)
I
1.        Funds have been provided for two vehicles, laboratory equipment and
operating expenses to support a field-based program of research that is designed
to measure nutrient responses and investigate the reasons for the differences
found.
Punjab - Soil Chemistry (A.R.I. Faisalabad)
2.        A similar provision of funds has been made for this soil chemistry
group.  In addition, provision has also been made for two staff to be trained
to PhD level.
Puniab - Soil Biochemistry (Ayub Institute)
3.        Support for the program on use of waste water for irrigation has been
provided in terms of equipment and operating expenses.
Sind - Soil Chemistry (Tandojam)
4.        Since the research group in Tandojam is currently too small for a fully
effective research program on soil fertility, provision has bc.en made for some
additional staff and training to PhD level, ir. addition to provision for
vehicles, equipment and operating costs.
5.        The funds allocated in this ARP II project are less than those
requested by Tandojam (see PC 1), for a full Soil Science Institute).  This
reduction is because there is a practical limit to the speed with which such a
research group can be sensibly expanded, staffed, equipped and managed (creating
a research group is preferable to creating an Institute). However, it is likely
that by the end of this project, further strengthening will be required (in
ARP III) when this current expansion has been consolidated and a proper research
program formulated and embarked upon.
Sind - Soil Chemistry (Dokri)
6.        As at Tandojam, and for the same reason, funds for additional staff
and for training have been provided for the Rice Research Institute at Dokri
(which is in a different agro-ecological zone to Tandojam).
Baluchistan - Soil Chemistry (Sariab)
7.        Again, since current staff numbers are too low for an effective
research group, funds have been provided for additional staff and for training,
in addition to the provision for a vehicle, equipment and operating funds.
M   The Project Implementation Volume contains detailed cost tables.



- 127 -
ANNEX S
Appendix 3
Page 2
NWFP - Soil Chemistry (Tarnab)
8.        In addition to the provision for a vehicle, equipment and operating
costs, funds have been provided for training and for some refurbishment of the
laboratories.
9.        As in Sind, a more major injection of funds is likely to be needed in
ARP III, when trained staff have returned and a full research program is
underway.
Federal - NARC (Soil Chemistry)
10.       Funds have been provided for training (short courses), equipment and
operating expenses.
Federal - PRCWR
11.       The sum of 10 million Rupees has been set aside for a possible
component on water use efficiency research. Details are in paras 35-36 of the
annex.



- 128 -                               AMEX 6
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Integrated Pest Management Component
Introduction
1.       It is estimated that over one third of the potential yield of crops
in Pakistan is lost to insect pests and disease attack every year. Crop
protection, therefore constitutes an integral part of crop production
planning. Effective crop protection reduces annual yield fluctuations and
increases farmers' confidence in agricultural performance. Past research,
particularly by international pesticide companies, has developed methods
which allow farmers to achieve economicaily viable yields of many crops, even
when pest attack is severe. Much of this research has, however, been directed
to the development of synthetic chemical pesticides. There is, however,
growing concern worldwide that a total reliance on chemical pesticides for
pest control leads to the development of non-sustainable systems. Whereas
previously farmers had used a variety of means - resistant varieties
destroying crop residues, etc. to minimize pest build up, the 'modern'
approach de-emphasizes cultural control in favor of using pesticides to
eliminate pests as soon as they appear. However, insect pests and diseases
are becoming increasingly and more rapidly resistant to modern pesticides;
insect predators are being destroyed, and the natural balance between pest and
predator is being upset. The 'modern' approach is therefore seen as being
damaging to the environment and not sustainable.
2.       Pesticides valued at around US$100 million (Rs 1.8 billion) are
imported annually into Pakistan. About 80% of these chemicals are applied to
the cotton crop in an average of about 5 sprays; that is about Rs 288 million
for the cost of pesticides in a single spray to cotton alone. About 280
pesticide products including carbamates, organophosphates, pyrethroids and
even organochlorines are used in Pakistan, and despite Federal registration
and Government legislation there is uncontrolled application and undoubtedly
environmental contamination.
3.       In an effort to begin the process of decreasing reliance on chemical
pesticides, the Government, through the Report of the National Commission on
Agriculture, has directed research to focus on Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) as a priority topic and has specifically recommended expanding or
up-grading facilities for IPM studies at the Ayub Research Institute, Punjab,
and at the ARI Tarnab, NWFP, and has recommended the formation of a ne-w
multidisciplinary departments of IPM at Tandojam, Sind, and Quetta,
Baluchistan.  The World Bank strongly supports this positive action by GOP.
4.       The essential feature of IPM is that it employs a combination of pest
management tactics to bring about pest control. These tactics include: the
use of resistant varieties; biological control; changing cultural practices to
avoid or limit pest build up; the use of trap crops; employing pheromones to
reduce pest breeding; pest scouting to determine economic threshold levels for



-129 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 2
effective spraying; and of course, the use of selective pesticides once
threshold levels are reached. All of these techniques are used in varying
combinations in many countries. However, the efficient use of IPM strategies
requires detailed knowledge of crop growing conditions and of the life
histories of diseases, pests and predators. IPM depends essentially on an
undetstanding of the local agricultural ecosystem (the basic biology and the
interactions among crops, pests and natural enemies). Successful and
sustainable IPM requires sophisticated and imaginative research to disentangle
and explain the many facets of crop and pest relationships. Such research is
rare in Pakistan at present and scientists must be trained in IPM
methodologies and re-oriented in their thinking in order to bring about the
changes in pest control strategies envisaged in the National Commission Report.
Project IPM Proposals
5.       It is impertant to note that the recommendations in the National
Commission Report were developed after proposals for ARPII were submitted.
Thus specific proposals for IPM were not included in the preparation documents
and the details presented below weie produced during pre-appraisal. They must
therefore be seen as indicative only. Provision has been made in the project
for detailed IPM research planning at national and provincial levels during
the first year of the project, using Pakistan scientists supported by
short-term international IPM experts. Provision for funding the start of this
planned program has been made for the remaining five project years. At the
same time scientists from Provincial and Federal research institutes would be
trained Lt sustain IPM work beyond the project period.
National and Provincial Coordination
6.       The proposed IPM component would aim to bring about a coordinated
program of planned research and training at national and provincial levels.
It would be important to plan strategies for IPM for each Province and to
commence funding these strategies in clearly identified, separately funded and
monitorable provincial programs. However, the limited scientific manpower and
financial resources in Pakistan do not allow for any duplication of effort.
Furthermore, results achieved at one laboratory or field trial must be shared
as rapidly as possible with all scientists working on IPM. There are great
numbers of IPM research topics to be tackled and scientific programs should
aim at synergism not protectionism. Coordination of planning, skill gap
identification and subsequert t:aining programs also requires strong linkages
and cooperation oetween federal and provincial scientists.
7.       Coordination of effort will be the key to successful IPM research and
the proposed IPM component therefore contains provision for a National IMP
Network Coordinator and a small but technically skilled coordination staff in
entomology and pathology - the most important disciplines needed in IPM at the
present time. This unit would need to be centrally based and PARC
headquarters would be the logical site. This coordination staff would be
facilitators, planners and advisers to the network. They would have no
executive authority over the network but would provide the leadership and
administrative function for organizing workshops and seminars, coordinating
the inputs of technical assistants, maintaining a directory of all in-country
studies relevant to IPM, distributing information on IPM to provincial and
national scientists and administering the IPM training programs allocated



- 130 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 3
specifically for the benefit of che Provinces. In addition, .he IPM Network
Zoordinator would administer a research fund for providing operational
expenses allocated specifically for IPM studies at provincial and federal
institutes. These operating funds would be released to specific Provinces
once appropriate IPM plans had been produced.
8.       Each Province would produce proposals in PCI format in accordance
with the priorities set out in the IPM Plan. The IPM Plan would subsequently
become an integral part of the overall Provincial Research Plan called for by
the Project.  Release of funds for the PCI proposals would require
confirmation in writing to IDA by the Network Coordinator that (a) the
proposals conformed to the 1PM Plans and that the proposed research did not
duplicate other IPM studies in Pakistan.
9.       The Network Coordinator would seek to interact directly with all
institutions in Pakistan undertaking work related to IPM.  Such institutions
would include but would not be limited to the following:
Agricultural Research Institute:  Quetta
Agricultural Research Institute: Tandojam
Agricultural Research Institute:  Tarnab
Agricultural Universities: Faisalabad, Tandojam and Peshawar
Atomic Energy Centers: Tandojam, Faisalabad and Peshawar
Ayub Agricultural Research Institute: Faisalabad
Cotton Research Institute: Multan
Department of Agriculture, Azad Jammu and Kashmir
PARC - CIBC Station: Rawalpindi
Pakistan Central Cotton Committee: Karachi
Plant Protection Institute: Faisalabad
Rice Research Institute: Dokri
10.      In addition it would be important for the IPM Network Coordinator to
maintain close links with private sector pesticide companies operating in
Pakistan, one at least of whom conducts pesticide research on an independent
research farm.
11.      The Network Co.'tdinator would prepare a computer-based inventory of
all IPM work being undertaken in Pakistan. As first-step in preparing the
inventory and in developing provincial IPM plans and proposals, annual IPM
Workshops would be organized which would bring together senior scientists and
management from all agencies involved in IPM, including those agencies listed
above. While the first workshop might, for convenience, be held at PARC/NARC
facilities in Islamabad, subsequent Workshops/seminars would be rotated
amongst Provincial institutes.
12.      Technical assistance will be required to help provincial scientists
and the network secretariat to prepare and consolidate IPM plans and costed
action programs which respond to the needs stated in the National Commission
Report and which prioritize IPM work according to agricultural needs and to
the resources available. Planning, monitoring and evaluating annual work
programs will involve close liaison between agencies and workshops organized
by the Network Coordinator. Funds for technical assistance transport and
travel and for workshops and seminars have been provided under the project.



- 131 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Social Science Research
1.        This Annex is condensed from a report in the Project Implementation
Volume concerning social science research proposed in the project. Besides
overviewing the existing structure of agricultural social science research ir.
Pakistan (centered mainly on agricultural economics research), and a social
science research agenda, the report details the cost estimates of proposed
social science research programs under the project.
Overview of Existing St_uctures
2.        Agriculture is so important in the Pakistan economy that virtually
all agencies dealing with economic analysis must have some capacity for
agricultural social science research. This includes the Federal and
Provincial Ministries of Finance, Planning and Development, Agriculture and
Food, Water and Irrigation, Rural Development, the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA), the National Agriculture Commission, the Agricultural
Prices Commission, the universities with social science departments including
Quaid-e-Azam University and the International Institute of Islamic Economics;
and several research institutes, but notably Pakistan Institute of Development
Economics (PIDE), Applied Economics Research Center of the University of
Karachi (AERC), Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC), and Punjab
Ece.nomic Research Institute (PERI).
3.        Some of the above institutions are linked through common
participation in governing boards and program committees - particularly the
broadly representative Technical Committee on Social Science in PARC - but
most are not. Indeed, most operate independently and rather jealously
possessive of their "own" data and analyses, and remain largely ignorant of
others' data, research agenda and research reports.
4.        The Social Science Division of PARC is linked through its Technical
Committees to (a) the Provincial Economic Research Institutes; (b) the
agricultural university faculties; (c) the Departments of Agriculture, and
Planning and Development; and (d) Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MINFA), PIDE and Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM).
However, the influence of these groups on furthering agricultural economic
analysis on the main agricultural research system is probably small as the
National Agricultural Research Plan (PARC, 1986) does not mention a single
social science research institute in the 90 institutes listed as dealing with
agricultural research and allied subjects.
5.        Current Social Science Research Agenda in PARC.  Social science
research in PARC is relatively recent. Some of the needosd research is being
done by the Agricultural Economics Research Units (AERUs), but the scope of



- 132 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
these investigations has been limited, mainly due to their restriction to
selected technologies or farming activities. There is yet in PARC little
research available on the "whole farm" business or on household or
agribusiness firm decision-making.
6.        The social science headquarters staff in PARC responsible to the
Member (Social Science), that is, the Director of Research, two Deputy
Directors and three scientific officers - are initiating some data collection
to support overall reseatch planning. This includes information on five major
crops, the major livestock, farm population, and fertilizer use. A farm
management survey has been carried out in the Barani areas of the Punjab and
separate studies are under way on the role of women in livestock and crop
production. This is a somewhat heterogenous mix of data collection, and the
research is mostly of a descriptive type. However, the activities started
offer good opportunities for expanding experience. Some additional well
trained economists in the headquarters Social Science Division (and, of
course, elsewhere) are of crucial importance and a number of these will become
available from the group of trainees sent to U.S. Universitites for PhD
training under the Agricultural Research I Project (ARP-I). In addition,
short-term technical assistance would be required to estab1ish and operate an
economically-based system for determining major research priorities at Council
level. A start has bteen made on this in early 1988 through a research project
conducted in collaboration between PARC Social Sciences Division and Dr Robert
Evenson of Yale University.
Agricultural Economic Research Units (AERUs)
7.        Achievements and Challenges.  The creation of several AERUs is an
important achievement of PARC. It is disturbing, however, to learn that, as
of November 1988, the Units at Faisalabad and Tandojam have been without
operational funds since January 1988 with consequent reduction in research and
publication activity. The existing AERUs are small units, especially
cuuisidering the magnitude of the research agenda that they face, but they are
generally staffed with energetic researchers, and work quite efficiently. The
AERUs focus on micro-level technological research that the other research
institutions mentioned before are presently poorly equ,pped to handle.
8.        The productivity of the AERUs varies considerably depending on the
interplay of several factors. Positive elements have included:
(a) Their considerable autonomy in research implementation and their
usually easy access to travel and computer assistance. Th-s has
allowed zhem to "get on with the job". The incorporation of AERUs
initially within the provincial Agricultural Research Institutes
(ARIs) would probably have made this virtually impossible.
(b)  The influence of CIMNYT (the International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Centre) economists, clearly in evidence at the Tarnab
and Ayub Units, and somewhat also at NARC, has greatly assisted in
making their work especially productive. The CIMMYT economists have



- 133 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
played the important role of mentors, and have stimulated much good
work at the AERUs. The absence of these outside resources for
several months in 1987-88, along with recent funding problems, was
sorely missed and was reflected in low morale of staff early in
1988.
(c)  The research staff members have been additionally spurred to
enthusiasm by a reward system of (i) acknowledged authorship of
well-produced publications; (ii) favored access to personal
computers and vehicles; (iii) the provision of convenient housing;
and (iv) the expectation, and in some cases already the realization,
of advanced degree training in the United States.
9.        There have also been negative aspects:
(a)  The focus on interactions between crops and en cropping technology
has restricted attention to other important farm interactions,
especially to those involving livestock and forage production, soil
conservation, and to non-technological issues such as commodity and
factor markets. Some of these issues are, however, now being
addressed. Research in cooperation with CIMMYT, building on earlier
work including crop-livestock-fodder issues in NWFP and Berani
areas, will address some of the wider issues (PARC/CIMMYT 1987).
The AERUs are still fledgling, and it is thus appropriate presently
to dodge the development of costly and diff'cult research involving
livestock. At present, NARC has only one livestock economist and it
must also be recalled that the provincial ARIs have no mandate for
livestock research, which generally falls into the responsibilities
of departments other than the Department of Agriculture.
(b)  Dependence on outside assistance can be justified in the short run,
but care must be (and seemingly is being) taken to ensure that it
will not be required in the long run.  This will depend on the
disposition and turnover of AERU staff, particularly after returning
from advanced training.
(c)  The once-special treatment of AERU staff did doubtlessly rouse
jealousies among researchers in other research establishments.  This
has been manifested in several ways but most significant might be an
increasing isolation of AERUs. AERUs have been designed to assist
natural science researchers with the economic assessment of their
work, but their acceptance will depend on a continuing demonstration
of achievements and on regular feedback of results to the
collaborating research workers.  At least ac the level of the
Director General and Director of Research of the ARIs, acceptance
seeminrly has been achieved as they make many calls on the services
of the AERUs. On balance, to date, AERUs have been a worthwhile
institutional experiment and have achieved useful and valuable
results. They warrant continued support.



- 134 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
10.       AERU Establishment.  The AERUs are still small and hardly
established. The ones at Tarnab and Faisalabad have made a good start.
However, key staff are undergoing post-graduate training, and the productivity
of these two institutions has suffered. Also, the AERU at Tandojam is young
and it is in urgent need of leadership and stimulation, preferably through
appointment of experienced staff but perhaps also combined with some external
technical assistance, some of which is being provided by CIMMYT on rice-wheat
cropping systems.
11.       The AERU at NARC has shown a variable performance.  Staffing
difficulties have been encountered and considerable resources were absorbed by
the numerous non-research-related tasks and activities which have made up
about 50X of potential research time. Clarification is required as to the
attention which this Unit is supposed to give to national issues that are part
of 1,-ARC's activities, and to the solution of more local problems pertaining to
Barani agriculture. A 30/50 split may be appropriate, on the understanding
that capability for establishing the economic justification of the national
research portfolio is to be established in PARC itself.
12.       The facilities provided to the AERU at NARC create problems.  The
available space was not sufficient to accommodate all the major externally
funded projects. It has been proposed that the Data Processing and Biometry
Unit and the Technology Transfer Unit be incorporated into AERU under the
control of NARC, and housed with AERU in a new office building. Steps need to
be taken to avoid in future a similar crowding-out process. Consideration
should also be given to accommodating the other agricultural economists of
NARC in part of the accommodation of any new building, or in the vacated old
cafeteria once a new one Is built in any other re-allocated space. NARC has
economist staff working on livestock (1), mechanization (1), pulses (1), the
Barani project (1), potatoes (2), and on crop "maximization" (1). The
productivity of these researchers would probably be enhanced if they were put
together, while preserving their line iesponsibilities to the various other
institutes and projects. The success of any such major physical re-assembly
of social scientists will depend on the appointment of a strong research
leader as director of the AERU. The construction of a new Crop Sciences
Building at NARC may make it possible to physically reassemble all social
scientists.
13.       The situation of the AERU at Quetta is clarifying.  Staffing the
unit with Baluchi economists, as is required by the provincial government, has
been difficult, but two appointments were made early in 1988. During the
initial period, the professional experience available at the Arid Zone
Research Institute (AZRI) and the International Centre for Agricultural
Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) should be used on a gratis basis to help to
bridge gaps at the Quetta AERU.
14.       The merged research services of the University and the province
which has occurred in North-West Frontier Province (NWFP) presents a
particular challenge to the development of an AERU. Meantime r:emaining under
the control of PARC, the merged social science research unit offers the



- 135 -
ANEX 7
Page 5
possibility, and as of early 1988 seemingly the reality, of close working
relations with the University's Department of Agricultural Economics and its
Institute of Development Studies. Considering their lack of cooperation in
recent years, these two institutions probably will gain more through this
proposed development than the AERU itself.
15.       The housing completed under ARP-I during 1988 at Sariab, Tarnab,
Faisalabad and Tandojam, will be assigned partly for better office
accommodation for the AERUs. This will be satisfactory as long as staff
numbers remain low, that is, until 1989-90 when some of the trainees return.
This additional accommodation will, however, not remove the isolation noted
before; it may even exacerbate it. A test of the units will be their final
acceptance by the ARI Directors as integral parts of their Institutes,
evidenced by their regular contribution to the Institutes' work, by the end of
ARP II but, bureaucratic independence and inertia being what they are, the
test will be difficult to pass.
16.       Strengthening of AERUs in ARP II.  Social scientists should bring
the economic reality of farming, especially small-scale farming, into the
framework of agricultural research. The Mid-Term Review of ARP I (World Bank
1986a) reports that a start has been made in this direction in Pakistan.
However, the report also points out that a much larger investment than
hitherto is required to establish and integrate social sciences within the
research system. This will become increasingly evident as farming systems
research is taken up by PARC and the provincial institutes.
17.       AERUs are expected to play a role in research planning, design of
experiments, analysis of experimental results and the identification of
farmers' problems amenable to research. Specifically, their functions will
be:
(a) to perceive problems in farmers' fields and with farmers, and help
translate them into research initiatives for the institutes in the
context of problem-solving research conducted within delineated
agroecological zones;
(b) to determine the socio-economic viability of technologies planned
and released by the research stations, identify farm-level
constraints to their adoption and, in the process, specify
requirements for technology redesign, and highlight areas for policy
intervention;
(c) to evaluate the private and social benefits and costs of new
production methods and assess the socio-economic consequences of
their adoption in relation to national objectives;
(d) to assist in introducing a systems (multidisciplinary) approach, in
place of commodity-, discipline-, or technique-specific approaches,
to the identification of research problems and to the interpretation



- 136 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
of research results, as already demonstrated in the PARC/CIMMYT
collaboration;
(e) to act as a consulting unit in designing experiments and analyzing
experimental data. This development, proposed by PARC, enlarges the
usual concept of social science but, under the present PARC/NARC/ARI
institutional divisions, biometrics is still a neglected field.
There are, in fact, some links that have developed through the
AERUs' involvement in on-farm research and their concern for
appropriate interpretation of experimental data. These two
functional activities are also likely to be the major users of
computers. The best reason for continuing the existing arrangement
is that it might serve to make the contribution of genuine social
science acceptable to biological research workers who presumably
require little sensitization to the usefulness of biometric
services. Social science "riding on the coat-tails' of applied
statistics is rather novel but, in the Pakistan context, it may be a
good means of getting it established.
18.       For effectively executing the above tasks, AERUs need continuing
support and strengthening in terms of human resources, equipment and
operational resources. The strengthening proposals are based on the following
arguments:
(a) The human resources of AERUs are too small to have a significant and
reliable impact on biological research programs, and the existing
small number of social scientists have difficulty in interacting
with the much larger number of biological scientists. The staffing
level of social scientists, therefore, should be raised to let them
become more visible, viable, effective and productive. It will be
difficult to increase staff numbers in the AERUs in the short run.
The units must concentrate on major commodities and
province-specific issues and cannot attend to the planning and
assessment needs of a wide range of biological research on a routine
basis. This is especially a problem in the Punjab where the AERU
staff relate in principle to rather more than 500 biological and
natural scientists working at more than a dozen research stations.
As additional people become available for appointment to AERUs,
consideration should be given to outposting most of them to some of
the smaller provincial institutes such as the Maize Research
Institute. This should not interfere with the professional
productivity of economists, provided that strong links are
maintained with the "headquarters" of the AERU at Ayub ARI. It is,
of course, vital for the individual social scientists to develop
considerable technical competence regarding the agricultural
enterprises that are at the focus of their research programs.
(b) The technical skills and the level of training of the AERU social
scientists are at present not adequate for the role and functions
they are expected to play. There is a need for advanced training in



- 137 -
ANNEX Z
Page 7
areas such as biometry, agribusiness, resource economics, production
economics, agricultural marketing, and systems analysis. Such
specialized training will enable a broadening of research activities
according to the needs of the province concerned. Post-doctoral
fellowships are also needed for furthering initiative and program
leadership skills. In considering these institutional enhancements
there is a need for careful consideration of (i) the limited
absorptive capacity of the existing institutions, and (ii) a
realistic scheduling of enlarging the AERU capacities. A fifth AERU
has been proposed by the Azad Government of the State of Jammu and
Kashmir (AJK). This could combine well with other acti-ities in the
Integrated Hill Farming Development Program (IHFDP) (Cr. 1461-PAK)
and seems a worthy additional element in the AERU system.
Accordingly, ARP-II would fund a small AERU research unit in AJK.
It will probably take most of the ARP II project period to achieve
essential expansions, and PARC (Social Sciences) needs to prepare
the detailed work plans of the proposed AERU development program
well before project implementation.
(c) Existing equipment resources of AERU are hardly sufficient to meet
present research requirements.  In future, AEFJs will, and
understand that they will, also have to serve as training centres in
computer applications, biometry and research methods and thus will
generate demands for considerable additional data-processing
equipment.
(d) The AERU and NARC has a shortage of office space. To remedy this
problem and to give better visibility to social sciences of NARC, a
rearrangement of existing space should be organized to house
agricultural extension, biometry and, most importantly, the AERU.
The three disciplines are proposed to be headed by a Director
(BPS-19)(an existing position), who must have a good understanding
of, and responsibility for the functioning and development of the
three programs above.
19.       Planning Procedures.  PARC should continue to require the AERUs to
put forward an annual work plan together with an arnual report. Presently,
this is prepared first in consultation with scientists in and heads of
provincial research and is then discussed and refined in the annual program
meeting in which all AERUs participate.  PARC does serve as a final clearing
house concerning the general direction of the proposed work, but it is
important to develop the skills of critical self-appraisal and planning within
each of the AERUs. This process might in due course be aided by instituting,
for each AERU, a Program Advisory Committee that would meet at least annually
with the AERU Director and staff to discuss achievements and plans. Such
Committees might consist of:  (a) the PARC Member (Social Science); (b)
Director General, or Director of Research of the relevant ARI; (c) perhaps a
nominee of the closest university Department of Agricultural Economics; and
(d) a co-opted member from another interested organization (for example, an
economics research institute, MINFA, the provincial extension service). Such



- 138 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8
an arrangement would assist in building needed institutional bridges. In
recent years much of this coordination and planning role has been played by
the CIMMYT Regional Economist, but this cannot be regarded as a permanent
setup.
Social Science Research at PARC Headguarters
20.       General Roles.  The tasks of social scientists within PARC
headquarters would include:
(a) to foster the development of social science within the agricultural
research system of Pakistan through such means as (i) assessing
future manpower and skill needs of relevant institutions,
(ii) assisting with manpower training to provide effective research
staff, and (iii) supporting the promotion of professional
capabilities through meetings, activities and scientific
publications in social sciences relevant to the agriculture of
Pakistan.
(b) to support and supervise the work of AERUs;
(c) to plan, manage and assist in executing contract research involving
social sciences, and review the research results obtained and thus
assist in the dissemination of results within and outside PARC,
although scarcity of human resources has of recent times severely
circumscribed these roles;
(d) to carry out a limited and, relative to existing research
institutions, a complementary program of economic and sociological
research on neglected topics of importance for agricultural
development.
21.       The latter two tasks in para 20 (e) and (d) are open-ended and great
skill and care will be needed to choose topics of critical importance.  The
main thrust of the studies will be to provide information on the development
opportunities offered by the persistent under-investment in agricultural
research (Oehmke 1986). Some of the studies will be of past achievements
(such as those of Pray, 1983 and Nagy, 1986), and some will be on future
prospects. The general purposes will be to present evidence to convince GOP
of the value of research investment for development and to guide assignment of
priorities and allocation of resources into major areas of research effort.
Pakistan should take advantage of the growing body of quantitative approaches
to priority setting in agricultural research, and some technical assistance in
this area will be valuable:
(a) The "science" of the economics of research resource allocation is
still in its early days, so too much should not be expected of it
too early. The perennial problems of (i) the uncertain time to
execute "successful" research, (ii) the uncertain results that can
be yielded through research, and (iii) the uncertain pattern of



- 139 -
ANNEX 7
Page 9
adoption and exploitation of supposedly successful results, all
imply that the implementation of any "rational' planning system will
be plagued by frustration. That PARC economists are not presently
working on research resource allocation with outstanding achievement
is understandable. Better work can, however, be done but it will
require considerable resources and time. Not only are effective
expert people from Pakistan required but there is also a need for
resource people from outside if substantive progress is to be made
and some such assistance is planned to be forthcoming from USAID and
can be supplemented by a modest amount under ARP II.
(b) The analysis must take account of many factors, most of which are
difficult to quantify. The size of the industry is the easiest
aspect to pin down, but even this is subject to considerable
uncertainty in Pakistan. The critical parameter is an index of
research achievement, often encapsulated in the proportional
reduction attributable to research in costs of production. A decent
analysis also incorporates the probability distributions attaching
to the several uncertain quantities and this element of quantified
uncertainty presents severe methodological challenge. These latter
two considerations essentially constitute the estimation of a
"stochastic research production function" - an empirical task that
has not yet been dealt with very adequately in any national or
international institution. PARC, as well as its counterpart
institutions elsewhere, must develop competence in these areas but
it will take time and may require eventually considerable technical
assistance from bodies such as the International Service for
National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and the Australian Centre for
International Agricultural Research (ACIAR), which are already
developing analogous planning activities for other countries in
collaboration with national responsible authorities.
Social Science Research at the Agricultural Universities
22.       Background.  To qualify as a university, an institution of higher
learning must not only transmit knowledge to staff and students, but it also
needs to add to knowledge through research. Using this criterion, at least
insofar as the social sciences are concerned, the agricultural universities of
Pakistan hardly qualify for the title, as little genuine research is now
undertaken. Vis-a-vis several rather well developed disciplines in biological
sciences, agricultural economics remains undeveloped or underdeveloped (Aslam
and Amir 1985). It has been extremely difficult to attract and retain well
trained staff. There are only a few senior people, and most of these
undertook doctoral studies overseas in the 1950s.  They are in high demand in
the private as well as the public sector of Pakistan, and also in national or
international institutions overseas.
23.       Apart from issues related to salary and other benefits, the major
disincentive for a young PhD to join a university staff is the lack of
facilities and data to pursue a research career. Also, teaching loads are



- 140 -
ANNEX 7
Page 10
heavy and leave generally little time for research. The small research fund
available from the university administration hardly covers the demands for
supporting M.Sc. dissertation work in the academic departments. It is also
claimed that the promotion system does not provide an incentive for university
teachers to pursue research.
24.       The social science departments at universities have responded with
what is seen in them as due caution to the opportunities presented by PARC
contract research. Some people indicated an aversion to being "responsible"
to a fund-controlling federal authority. Interpretation of relative
"seniority" also seems to interfere with the relationship between
institutions. Other staff pointed to the difficulties caused by slow,
inadequate, and late release of research monies in contract research. Other
pertinent criticisms made of contract research were that PARC (a) interferes
"excessively and unnecessarily" in staff selection under contract funds and
(b) is overly concerned with return of capital items, such as furnishings, at
the end of a contract.
25.       Universities in general and, given the present and prospective
policies for staff appointment, agricultural universities in particular are
crucial to the evolution of a long-term self-sustaining research system. This
must be recognized as a matter of urgency even though present lines of funding
for most agricultural research and for universities are different. A strong
budgetary support for the research system at large needs to include a
significant proportion for universities. How to effect this needs careful
further consideration. The present observations on the contemporary
deficiencies of the universities are by no means novel. Consider, for
instance, the still-cogent summary remarks of a country review report of the
World Bank (1986b, January 27, paras 3.97-3.99):
"At present the strongest scientific capacity in agriculture is
located at universities where it performs poorly because of lack of
... research ... to complement graduate training. And the research
that is funded at the provincial research institute makes little
contribution to the generation or maintenance of professional
capacity or motivation."
"The Bank has funded projects in each of the three areas of
education, research and extension, but it does not appear that the
Bank or other donors have givan the subsector a consistent high
priority. There was a period of more than a decade when no projects
were initiated by the Bank. There have been difficult political and
procedural obstacles to Bank involvement. The authoritarian nature
of the Pakistani government and the administrative transfer of the
agricultural universities from the Ministry of Agriculture to the
Ministry of Education have presented an environment that is not
conducive to either education or research. And the rivalries
between the provinces present an obstacle to the types of
administrative reform that are necessary to produce a more
productive agricultural education/research/extension system.



- 141 -
Page 11
Finally, the constraint on lending to individual provinces imposes a
serious obstacle to Bank efforts to support research and extension."
"The Pakistan agricultural research and extension systems are
inadequate to meet the needs of the Pakistan economy. The effect of
years of neglect of the training and encouragement of agricultural
scientists, and the neglect of the provincial research institutions
will not be quickly remedied and cannot be overcome without a
serious commitment from the federal and provincial governments to
removing the administrative obstacles to better coordination of the
overall research effort. A further necessary condition for the
effective transfer of improved technologies to farmers is an effort
to improve the level of education in rural areas."
26.       If the agricultural universities were reestablished in the
Department of Agriculture, it would put the universities under more pressure
to do research and it would also simplify funding arrangements. However, such
an arrangement would also require a review of provincial budgeting procedures
and budget flows. The provision of financial support through the provinces
seems difficult because of problems resulting from scale and proliferation.
It is, however, clear that ARP II needs to strengthen provincial capabilities
after the establishment under ARP I of the central PARC/NARC administrative
and physical facilities.
27.       Strengthening under ARP II.  Contract research provides only limited
opportunities for overcoming the difficulties with which social science
research in the agricultural universities is faced at present. Accordingly, a
more tailor-made arrangement needs to be sought to facilitate sustained and
long-term research at the universities.
28.       A solution to the problem could be found in negotiating memoranda of
understanding between PARC and each university. These could be valid for
three years in the first instance, with a rolling 3-year commitment in
principle. All the agricultural universities should be involved, but
initially under ARP II only Tandojam and Faisalabad would be involved as they
seem to provide the best opportu-nities for success. An arrangement with
Tandojam would probably be relatively easy, while an arrangement with
Faisalabad would probably be more significant in the longer term. Needless to
say, any such arrangements will only function well if there can be a much
smoother and faster flow of funds from GOP to PARC to the provinces and
universities than has proved to be possible under existing contract research
arrangements.
29.       The arrangements possible could differ considerably in the degree of
control to be vested in PARC. At one extreme, the funds for contract research
would be handed over to the university with virtually no program requirements
beyond the stipulation of "fostering social science research", and with
accounting restricted to an annual report on plans and progress. Considering
the recent record of: (a) research activity in the universities and the lack
of interest among professors in seeking outside resources, and (b) the urgent



- 142 -
ANNEX 7
Page 12
need for applied research in Pakistan, this approach does not appear to be
very promising.
30.       At the other extreme, PARC through its technical committees could
help to set the research agenda, establish in discussion with university staff
detailed work plans, and monitor and supervise the work in progress. This
would be impractical with PARC's present professional resources and would
prevent self-reliant strengthening of research capacity at the universities.
This approach would create severe problems for all those involved on the
university side.
31.       An intermediate arrangement (with similarities to the prevailing
Technical Committee procedures) would, therefore, appear appropriate for
ARP-II whereby PARC and provincial analogous bodies set broad guidelines as to
needed research areas and offer priorities as to the urgency of particular
topics. These should be discussed in annual research program meetings between
the research councils and a university project management committee, at which
agreement is reached as to the activities for the coming year. Such research
can obviously include projects planned to run over z.veral years.
32.       It is important to get university teachers involved in research, and
to see that staff hired primarily for research are also involved in teaching.
Only this interaction will revitalize the essential functioning of
universities in the medium term. For its part, PARC will need to recognize
that this institution-building function is more important than short-run
research achievements. PARC, therefore, needs to be careful in its endeavours
to promote research at universities. It must be noted that these perceptions
of the need for and importance of social science research in the agricultural
universities are shared by people in those institutions. The Faculty of
Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology at AUF, for instance, has developed
an ambitious proposal for the establishment of an Agricultural Social Sciences
Research Ldentre. This Centre has many laudible features that, if implemented
effectively, could go far in achieving the ambitions held for social science
in the university system. Implementation, however, would require vigorous
reform of many aspects of university policy on research funding and management
and their interactions with the teaching program. It is to be hoped that
these issues can be addressed in Punjab's planned review of AUF.
33.       This process could certainly benefit from technical assistance in
the form of outside researchers working collaboratively in the university
departments. The consultants hired for this purpose should also participate
in formal teaching and dissertation guidance.
34.       Apart from the direct enhancement of university research, there is
evidently a need for further advanced training in social science disciplines
(including rural sociology and anthropology). This is indispensable if
universities are to develop their own PhD programs. The technical assistance
components would sustain the teaching and research function while the trainees
are pursuing their studies. Meantime, priority should be given to



- 143 -
ANNEX 7
Page 13
strengthening considerably the Master's degree programs before resources are
diverted to PhD programs.
35.       The provision of technical assistance under ARP II for AERUs and
social science u'iits at agricultural universities could also assist in
strengthening research and graduate training capabilities in social science.
However, it will be difficult to find suitably trained counterparts for this
purpose, and to make arrangements for their appointments in the institutions
concerned.
36.       Attempts should be made to introduce novel incentives to the reward
system for social science professionals. To be effective, these incentives
need to be significant. The following measures would be instituted.
(a)  A national prize in agricultural economics research could be
awarded, say, every three years for a contribution to social science
development. This would probably consist of an account of a major
research thrust and be supported by a number of publications. The
award might, for instance, consist of funds for travel to and
attendance at the International Association of Agricultural
Economists' 3-yearly conference plus some study tours (say,
US$5,000).
(b) An annual prize in each agricultural university for the best Master
of Science thesis submitted in the field of social science. The
merit would be judged by an appropriately constituted national panel
of, say, three persons. The prize (say, US$1,000) would be for the
purchase of professional books. A visiting program for promising
local scientists could also be used to enhance the capability and
motivation of Pakistani social scientists for research. Under such
a program, a research worker or university teacher-researcher could
pursue an approved program of research work at an appropriate
overseas institution. This should be operated as a well-advertised
competitive program with emphasis on establishing collabcrative
research links. At a cost of about US$20,000 for three-month work
programs, one scholarship per year appears appropriate.
37.       The main objective in the project is to develop and expand the
social science human resource base and to provide operational funding for
these researchers. The project would also provide funds for a limited amount
of staff accommodation and minor items of capital equipment.
Training
38.       Under the project it is proposed to provide 11 fellowships for
overseas PhD study for PARC's Social Division and AERUs. In addition 60
months of short-term training, including post-doctoral and refresher courses
overseas, would be provided. Details are provided in Table 2. The project
would also provide PARC's Social Science Division and AERUs 22months of



- 144 -
ANNEX 7
Page 14
technical assistance (Table 2 gives details). Table 1 shows the total planned
staffing of these groups during ARP-II.
39.       The project would strengthen the Faculty of Agricultural Economics
and Rural Sociology at the Agricultural University of Faisalabad, and the
Faculty of Agricultural Social Sciences at the Sind Agricultural University.
To upgrade these faculties, each university would enter into a twinning
agreement with an eminent, suitable overseas university, which would provide
assistance such as, among other things, teaching inputs, staff training
including MSc, PhD and post-doctoral studies, collaborative research, and
technical assistance for establishing currictla and research programs. The
figures shown in Tables 1 and 2 for training and technical assistance are only
indicative for costing purposes, and actual training and technical assistance
will depend on the twinning arrangements into which the two universities
enter.
REFERENCES
Aslam, M.M. (1987), Research Planning in Social Sciences: The Case of
PARC, Occasional Paper, March, PARC, Islamabad.
Aslam, M.M. and Amir, P. (1985), Higher Agricultural Education in
Pakistan: Problems and Oooortunities, Social Services Division, PARC,
Islamabad.
FSM Project (1986), A ProRosal for an Agricultural Price Statistics
Project, EAN Chemonics, Islamabad.
Eckert, J.B. (1987), An Evaluation of Proposals Submitted for Funding by
the Economic Analysis Network, Chemonics and DAP, Islamabad, 14 March.
ISNAR (1983), On Selected Aspects of the Pakistan Agricultura,l Research
System, ISNAR, The Hague.
Khan, M.H. (1981), "The Political Economy of Agricultural Research in
Pakistan", Pakistan Development Review, 20(2), 191-213.
Lybecker, D.W. and Skold, M.D. (1986), Economic Analysis of the
Agricultural Production Sector for Policy Analysis, Pakistan EAN Project
Paper, FSM, MINFA, ,slamabad.
Nagy, J.G. (1985), "The Overall Rate of Return to Agricultural Research
and Extension in Pakistan", Pakistan Journal of Applied Economics, 4(1).
Oehmke, J.F. (1986), "Persistent Underinvestment in Public Agricultural
Research", Agricultural Economics, 1(1), 53-65.
PARC (1986), National Agricultural Research Plan, PARC, Islamabad.



- 145 -
ANNEX 7
Page 15
PARC/CIMMYT (1987), Economics Cogmonent: PARC/CIMMYT Collaborative
Project, USAID 391-0489, CIMMYT Regional Economics Programme, Islamabad.
Pray, C.E. (1983), "Underinvestment and the Demand for Agricultural
Research: a Case Study of the Punjab", Food Research Institute Studies,
14(1), 51-79.
Qureshi, S.K., Malik, S.I. and Siddiqui, A.N. (1985), Some Aspects of
Agricultural Price and Taxation Policies in Pakistan, PIDE, Islamabad.
Schuh, G.E. (1986), Policy Issues in Agricultural Research, mimeo,
Agriculture and Rural Development Department, World Bank, Washington DC, 11
December.
Social Sciences Division (1985), Toward a Professional Forum of
Agricultural Social Scientists: Its Role in the Develooment of Pakistan's
Economy, brochure, PARC, Islamabad.
World Bank (1986a), Pakistan Agricultural Research Development Project
(CR-1158-PAK): Mid-term Review, January, Project Implementation Unit, World
Bank (1986), PARC, Islamabad.
World Bank (1986b), World Bank in Pakistan: Review of a Relationship
1960-1984, Volume II, Report 6048, 27 January, Washington D.C.



EMUL6K
ACRICULTUItAL RESEARCH 11 POJECT
indicative Social Science Research Staffina in PARC 11
BPS    ...~.MPARC      .MLc              Tarnab        Fasi  lbed        aolem           O ta              AJK               Totat
A   B    C     A   B    C     A   B    C       A   B    C      A   B    C      A    B    C      A  S     C        A    B    C
Desianation
Senior Agric.
Economist                  19       1  0    2      0   0    1     0   0    1       0   0    1      0   0    1      0   0    0      0   0    0          1  0    6
Agric. Econo ist              18      3   1    3     1   1    2      1   1    2      1   0    2      1   0    1      1  0    1        0   0    1         8   3   12
0'
Biometrician/SSO              18      0   0    0     0   0    1     0   0    1       0   0    2      0   0    1      0   0    0      0   0    0          0   0    5
Asst. Agric.
Economist                  17       2  4    3      2   1   4      2   0    4      3   1   5        2   0    3      1   0   3       0   0    2         12  6   24
Scientific Officer            17      2   0    2     0   0    a     0   0    0       0   0    0      0   0    0      0   0    0      0   0    0          2   0    2
Asst. Sc. Officer
(Economists)               16      0   0    2      0   0    2     0   0    2      0   0    2       1   0    1      0   0    1      0   0    0          1  0   10
Total                                 8   5   12     3   2   10     3   1   10       4   1   12      4   0    7      2   0    5      0   0    3         24  9   59
Note: A  Number In place In Pakfstan, April 1988.
B s Nusber en training programs out of Pakistan, April 1968.
C a Target number by the end of ARP-II.
1Sa n i
Soclat Sciences Division.



PAKISTAN
AGRI,ULTURAL ESARCH ! IPROJECT
indicatin Forcl Trainir teehnical Assistance ard lravetilnr Research Scholar Swmarv
LariculturaL Universities
_AERUs                   PARC                     AUF /1               $AU /I                   Total
_L J  _L_LJ~L                               -L. L                 -L ..LL..JL-
Prod&ction Econmics                                 2   3   6               0   0   0                1  12   0            0   0   0                3   15   6
Research Plaming                                    0   0   0               0   2   8                0   0   0            0   0   0                0   2   8
Agribusiness                                        2    2   4              0   0    0               1 12    0            1  10   0                4   24   4
Resource Econmxics                                  2   6    6              0   0   0                1   0   6            1  10   6                4   16  18
Agricultural Marketing                              0   0   0               1   2   4                0   12   6           1  10   6                2  24   16
Rural Soe1logy/Anthropology                         2   6   6               0   0   0                1  12   6            2 10    5                528   17
Technology Transfer ard Coummcation                 1   3   6               1   0   4                1  12   6            1  10   5                3  25  21
Systems Anstysis                                    0   0   6               0   0   4                0   0   0            0   0   0                0   0   10
lioetry                                             0   0   6               0   0   0                1   0   6            1   0   0                2   0   12
Total                                               9  20  40               2   4   20               6  60  30            7  50  22               24  134 112
Note: A a Number of post-graduate foreign study awards for PhD.
9 a Lmber of months of expert technical assistance.
C a Imb3er of months for short-term training  soe of dAich could be post-doectoral.                                                                           t3 |
g  Figures for Phbs0 technical assistance and short-term training for AUF and SAU are purely indicative as actal figures would depend on the twining agreement
sAich the universities sign with overseas universities for strengthening social science facultties at AUF and SAU. In particular, the technical assistance
figures refer to overseas university staff Wo would possibly spend time teaching a course at AUF or SAU. as well as assisting prepare curricula end initiate 9 '
research programs.



- 148 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Diagnostic Surveys and Adaptive Research
1.        There is considerable misunderstanding of the functions, roles and
responsibilities of different levels of research in Pakistan. This
misunderstanding is particularly prevalent amongst research scientists who see
adaptive research as their responsibility and any other involvement as
duplicative. There is also a worldwide traditional feeling that basic
research is 'senior' in the hierarchy, demands greater intellectual ability
and technical skills, and should therefore be isolated from the less
statistically rigorous forms of research; especially adaptive and on-farm
research.
2.        It is important to realize the interdependencies of different stages
in the development of new technology; basic research provides the building
bricks for constructing the technology, e.g.. a new gene, a new pesticide,
etc.; applied research takes the component and builds it into a piece of
technology, e.g., a saline tolerant variety or a technique for controlling a
disease; adaptive research modifies the technology to fit country, zonal or
local needs; and on-farm testing works at farm level to determine problems
associated with grafting the innovation into farming systems. It is clearly
difficult and often counterproductive to draw distinctions between different
stages of research and in the above scheme it will be seen that research
scientists, subject matter specialists and even front line extension workers
all have a part to play in developing and testing technology and in finding
out if it works at the farm level. The stages of technology development are
all essential; they are reinforcing and should not be duplicaLive.
3.        There is a real need to educate scientists worldwide into the role
of adaptive and on-farm research and into the importance of feedback in
research program planning. Unfortunately there are no procedures or manuals
to achieve this. In Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan adaptive and on-farm
research is being conducted by extension staff operating out of Adaptive
Research Stations. Development of these Adaptive Research Stations under
Bank-supported extension projects has formed an excellent base for zonal work,
and linkages between adaptive research and extension are strengthening.
However, linkages between applied research being undertaken at Research
Institutes and adaptive research are very formal and not very productive.
They involve discussion of work programs at coordination meetings held twice
each for kharif and rabi crops and mostly concern the endorsement of trial
proposals. Applied scientists are not involved in the diagnostic surveys nor
are adaptive research staff involved in the early identification and design of
applied research. Thus the interactive synergism is lost. Extension staff



- 149 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
should be more closely involved in applied research activities. Research
scientists should be directly involved in multi-location testing and should
also participate fully in diagnostic survey work currently being undertaken
almost exclusively by extension staff.
4.        Diagnostic surveys refer to a process of data collection and
analysis to describe and understand the agro-climatic and socio-economic
conditions under which farmers in a given location make decisions so as to
identify farmers' priority problems and develop an appropriate research
program to solve them. The process usually begins with the collection of
secondary data, followed by an exploratory survey and then a verification
survey. This work can be undertaken relatively quickly (within several
months) and produces data which allows researchers to either establish an on-
farm research program testing existing technology at a particular location, or
aecide whether or what farmer problems must be worked on at an earlier stage
in the research cycle (for example, applied research at the research station)
to find solutions. To fully understand farming systems and farmers' problems
it is important that multidisciplinary teams of crops, livestock, forestry and
social scientists undertake the diagnostic surveys. The mingling of extension
and research staff on these teams would greatly assist the two-way
communication of farmer problems and appropriate technological solutions of
them between researchers, farmers and extension workers.
5.        There is a serious lack of social scientists skills on adaptive
research sites yet many of the problems being tackled have socio-economic
constraints at their base. The 'economists' sited at many farms are farm
management specialists rather than social scientists. Adaptive Research Farm
staff need to work with staff from the Agricultural Economic Research Units
(AERUs).
6.        In order to tackle these problems, it is proposed that under ARP-II,
ARIs at Faisalabad, Tandojam, Sariab, and the NWFP Agricultural University
should each appoint an Adaptive Research Coordinator who should be a social
scientist. The coordinator would (a) visit Adaptive Research sites and on-
farm trials and prepare brief reports on ongoing programs, with particular
emphasis on farmer reactions, to be distributed to all staff of the University
and Institutes; (b) wouid arrange for appropriate scientists to participate in
the diagnostic surveys conducted by AERUs and Adaptive Research; (c) would
ensure that eventually all major agroecological zones of the province were
covered by diagnostic surveys; (d) would ensure that the diagnostic study
results were published and disseminated; and (e) would act as the point of
contact for applied/adaptive linkages between staff below DG levels.
7.        At present some of the Adaptive Research Stations are taking a
somewhat narrow view of cropping problems and are not looking at farming
systems. To Adaptive Research staff 'Trees' are 'shade' and therefore a
problem to crops, and 'weeds' are directly competing for crop nutrients.



- 150 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
Neither trees nor weeds are seen as a fodder resource because farm animals are
outside the Adaptive Research domain. It is essential to bring the livestock
perspective to adaptive research. It is recommended therefore that a
Livestock Specialist be included when necessary in the diagnostic survey team.
The project would provide operating funds to cover his expenses.
8.        No analysis of adaptive or on-farm trials' results or production of
individual research reports (other than annual reports) is undertaken at AR
stations. The SSMSs are expected to send their results to headquarters for
analysis, and have no 'feel' for ownership of their results. There is little
manipulation of on-farm financial data and technical. recommendations are
rarely checked for their affordability. It is essential both for the program
and for the motivation of AR steff that opportunities for data analysis are
provided at each ARS. This would require a desk top computer to be provided
in an air-conditioned office at each AR. The benefits of this provision
should be considerable. This provision was proposed earlier (Review of
Adaptive Research Programme and Future Recommendations - August 1988) and the
project would provide this equipment. Such facilities would again strengthen
the linkages between Bank supported research and extension. Research
scientists from ARIs would be able to undertake analysis of field results at
Adaptive Research Farms which would bring research and extension staff
together.



AGICNLSURAL RESEARCH II FROJECS
Manaaement Sunnort Units Professional Staff
Staff Deslimnation                                            Puniab                                Sind                                       Baucisa
Research         DG Ag.        DG Liveast.            DG. AS             AUP Dir  of               Rarch
Board         Research         Research             Besearch 1/           Research  2/             Board
------------------------------------------------- (No) ------------------------------------------------
Planming & Proarmming
Grade l9                                       1               0               0                     1                     1                      1
Grade IS                                       1               1               1                     0                     0                      0
Grade 17                                       2               0               0                     2                     1                      1
Monitorins or Evaluation
Grade  8                                       1               1               1                     1                     1                      1
Grade 17                                       1               0               0                     1                     1                      0                             U'
Total Staff                                    6               2               2                     5                                           3
I Following establisitaent of the Bind Agricultural Research
Organization, this unit would become its secretariat.
Z This unit would also act as Secretariat to the AUP's Research
Coordination Board.



- 152 -                                                ANNEX 10
Table I
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Overseas and Local Training
Research
Reorganization
and                                            Soil               Social
Instituto1n                             Hanaoement        Horticulture    Livestock    Science         PM    Science        Total
1. PARC & Institutes
PhO (No.)                                1                  6              2             1         4        11            25
mSc (No.)                                2                  -               4            -         -         -             6
Short Courses (months)                  12                 36             12            18        23        60           161
Local Training (months) LI              36                 72             72            12        48       132           372
2. Puniab
PhD                                      -                  S               3            4         8         -            20
mSc                                      3                  -               3            -         -         -             6
Short Courses                            6                 33             12            12        28         -            91
Local Training                          36                 60             72            48        96         -           312
3. Sind
PhD                                      -                  5              6             6         6         -            23
"Sc                                      3                  -               3            -         -         -             6
Short Courses                            6                 30             18            20        28         -           102
Local Training                          36                 60            108            72        72         -           348
4. Bal3uchistan
PhD                                      -                  4               3            S         3         -            1S
mSc                                      2                  -              6             -         -         -             8
Short Courses                            6                 24              6            12         -         -            48
Local Training                          24                 48            108            60        36         -           276
5. NWFPE
PhD                                       -                 6              6             2         3         -            17
mSc                                      2                  -               3            -         -         -             S
Short Courses                            6                 30              12           12         -         -            60
Local Training                          24                 72            108            24        3f         -           264
6. AUF. Puniab
PhO                                      -                  -               1            -         -         -              1
HSc                                       -                 -               -            -                 
Short Courses                            -                  6             12             0         -         -            18
Local Training                           -                  -              12            -         -         -            12
7. SAU. Sind
PhD                                                         -              6             -         -         -             6
MSc
Short Courses                            -                  6             18             6         -         -            30
Local Training                           --                               72             -         -         -            72
8. Total
PhD                                      1                 26             27            18        24        11           107
mSc                                     12                  -              19            -         -         -            31
Short Courses                           36                165             90            80        79        60           510
Local Training                         156                312            552           216       288       132         1.656
/1  Local training is additional in-country training before going overseas for PhD training.



- 153 -                                                        ANNEX 10
Table 2
AGRICIIL S RESEARCH II PRO=KCT
S ehnicpl Aacictanec
(Coc-ultt  tt inc citb`
Rver"Jtb d          R eru Rrute d Racred  Re  cn    DReruited  Rrte dReritsd  Rcnd   oerulted Recruited Iesrultod
1   tn "rninM Res, e   lnn
R,  !ve All,c   M.e PrO.aactiom
of INMS  Monitorn  hE1UtO
a) Introduction of Metbodolosies
for Researeb Priority Aa4scs,nt          2                      4                     4                     3                     4                    17
b) Monitoring & Evaloatlon                   6                                           a                     A                      8                   34
ci InroducIn6 Pro;rm  Budgeting U                      4                                4                     3                      4                   1a
d) Dagnostic Studies a                                            10                     5                      5                     5                   25
e) Preparation of PMSs a Res. Ad.                      24  S      31  L4   24  f5       31  a      24          19   4    24          31  &j    24         112       120
Subtotal                                 12         24 £ 2.                                                           Z 2  30                        U2
2. HerIcultur
a) General Horturultur,                     18                                                                                                             18
b) Post Oarvest Physiology                   7                                                                                                              7
c) Fruit Production                                                3                     a                                            4                    15
d) Vegetable Cropping                                              3                     4                      6                     4                    17
*) C:trus Decline                                                 12                                                                                      12
£) Floriculture                                                                                                6                     4                    10
Sobtotal
3. L1vaac
a) Forago. Pastur & Raz.e Foed               5                                                                                                             5
b) IndiBLnOuc Anwl Breods                    1                                                                                                              1
c) Dairy Cattle Croos-breeding               6                                                                                                             6
d) Ruinant Nutrition                                               3                     3                      3                     3                    12
*) Aniwal Health                                                   3                     3                     3                      3                   12
Subtotal                                 121 61 6                                                                                4 63
* Soil Scs nct
a) Soil Physics                             24                                                                                                            24
b) SoUL Surey Lahor. f                       6                                                                                                              6
Subtotal                                 22                                                                                                            2
5. Intearated Post Maaseent
a) 7FM Pogrosr Develo6n t/Pleoni             S          6                                4                      3                     3                   20
b) IPM Trauiing CourseA/orkahop Design       5                                                                                                              5
c) IP)1 Exports                             10                    10                    10                      5                     5                   40
d) Ttecnical Sei nee Editor                                         5                     5                                                                10
Subtotal                                 a                                            2                                           j17
6. Soial Sc      ce                            2
7. Design of Crop Scinces BuAldins                          S
eMi1ettems Reo                                 7                                                                                                              X
TOTAL                                   IL7                                                     LI 100  _i                                  Id         VA         M  ^ 2     2
S~~~~~~~ _
a This -rk  s p rt of PVWP preperwaton. but bes been disaggregated from it as eon1ltant -coId visSt Pakistan over three year period.
La This vOrk is closeLY tied to preration of PRF and ecuLd contribute to it.
LI Local conultants to assist PARC m.th procet Implemntation end adinistration.
Z  A breakup of thic assistance could be: 24m Teom Leedec plua Research Mcnagement and himnlsttction;
3 m Hbopou.r Raqie" eruad ; I a Recearch Station DeveLopnent; 2 M Specific Researchb Pmrorms.
LI This c  for Specific R*sexcch Poro.6
LA Soil Survey Labor* is a separate Federal Research Institute. end not a PARC Institute.



- 154 -
ANNEX -11
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Procedures for Collaborative Research Subproiect
Selection and Administration
1.        PARC would inform all suitable agricultural research institutes,
including agricultural universities, concerning the proposed collaborative
research program with eminent overseas research institutes, and would request
proposals for collaborative research subprojects from them.
2.        Suitable local research institutes would include those with a
nucleus of well trained staff who work as a group or groups to solve farmers'
priority productivity problems. Suitable overseas institutes would be those
with an extremely strong group of research staff, and with an international
reputation for doing world-class research in an area of vital interest to
Pakistan's development objectives and farmers.
3.        Subprojects to be submitted should:
(a) cover priority research as defined in the Provincial Research Master
Plans or the National Agricultural Research Plan;
(b)  be part of the submitting institutions's long-term research plan;
(c)  be prepared according to PARC's standard format for research
proposals including being based on a complete survey of related
research, both on-going and completed, in Pakistan and abroad, and
have adequately outlined the experimental design and procedures;
(d) be designed to have Pakistani and overseas scientists working
together in both Pakistan and the overseas country on common
research problems, not duplicate other ongoing or completed research
and have a stipulated time-frame for completion;
(e) inzlude the costs of travel, accommodation, subsistence and direct
operational costs of research (materials, fuel, vehicle O&M and
other incidentals) and a small amount for equipment and vehicles
(maximum 20X of subproject costs). Subproject costs should exclude
any civil works or staff salaries.
4.        PARC's technical committees would appraise the submitted
subproject's technical and financial aspects, and would recommend acceptance,
rejection or revision of them to PARC's executive Board. Institutes, whose
subprcjects the Executive Board approved, would enter into an agreement



- 155 -
ANNEX ll
Page 2
acceptable to PARC and IDA with the pertinent overseas institute.  The
institutes would have to agree to PARC's internal monitoring, evaluation,
accounting and auditing procedures for the subprojects.



- 156 -
Table 1
Page I
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Priority Reseamch Prosiras - Provincial Level
Priority Research Area                     Research Institute                          Research Prosrams
Punjab                               (a) Ayub Agricultural                     (i)  Fruit cultivar
Research Institute (AARI)                 improvement
Faisalabad
(ii) Vegetable cropping
systems
(b) Sahiwal Research                     Citrus decline
Station AARI
(c) Agricultural                          ti)  Malformation control
University, Faisalabad                    in mango
(AUF)
Cii) Control of flowering.
fruiting, dwarf rootstocks,
interstocks, and nutrition
of citrus.
Sind                                 (a) Mango and Cit_us                     Mango and citrus research
Research Station, Sakrand                 (improve cultivars.
productivity, agronomic
practices, aiiease
resistance)
(b) Banana, Papaya, and                  Banana, papaya, and chicku
Chiku Research Station                    researcF (improved
cultivars, productivity,
agronomic practices,
disease resistance
(c) Guava Research Station,              Select improved cultivars,
Naudero                                   improved agronomic
practices, and other
(d) Jujube Research                      Select improved cultivars,
Station, Tandojam                         improved agronomic
practices, and other
(e) Vegetable Research                   Selection of improved  ,
Substation, Mirpurkhas                    cultivars, agronomic
practices, and others
(f) Sind Agricultural                     (i)   Malformation co7trol
University, (SAU) Tandojam                in mango
(ii) Control of flowering,
fruiting, dwarf rootstocks,
interstocks, and nutrition
of mango
RWFP                                 (a) Mingoza Researcn                     Fruit research
Station
(b) Agricultural Research                Vegetable research
Institute. Tarnab
(c) Department of                        Floriculture research
Horticulture, Agricultural
University, Peshawar (AUP)
Baluchistan                         Agricultural Research                      (i)  Vegetable research
Institute, Sariab
(ii) Floriculture research



- 157 -
ANEX12
Table l
Page 2
Prioritv Research Area                     Research Institute                          Research Proarama
2. Livestock
Punjab                               (a) Livestock Production,                Livestock feeding and
Research Institute (PRI)                  management
Bahar Nager
(b) Faculty of Veterinary                Develop postgraduate
Science, AUF, Faisalabad                 research in livestock
research
tc) Faculty of Animal                    Develop postgraduate
Husbandry, AUF, Faisalabad                research in livestock
research
(d) College of Veterinary                Develop postgraduate
Sciences, Lehore                          research iD livestock
nutrition and virus studies
81nd                                (a) Livestock and Fisheries               Livestock nutrition
Department, Rohri Farm
(b) Livestock and Fisheries              Livestock nutrition
Department. Tando Mhuhamad
Khan Farm
Ce) Faculty of Animal                    Develop postgraduate
Husbandry and Veterinary                  livestock research
Science, SAU, Tandojam
(d) Department of Animal                 Develop postgraduate
Reproduction, SAU, Tandojam               livestock research
Baluchistan                         Livestock Deparment                       Livestock nutritien
laboratory
.   NWFP                             (a) Faculty of Animal                    Develop postgraduate
Husbandry, AUP                            research, livestock
nutrition
(b) Directorate of                       Livestock nutrition
Livestock Research and
Development., Surezai Farm
3.  So.l Science                                                                                              j
Punjab                     (~~~~~a) AARI, Faisalabad                 Soil biochemistry prograd~
(use of sewerage effluent)
(b) AUF, Faisalabad                      Soil physics teaching and
research
Sind                                SAU, Tandojam                             Soil physics teach in,
research, and post-
doctorate training
4. Integrated Pest HMnaaement
Ptn.ab                              AARI, Faisalabad                          IPM Program
Sind                                ARI, Tandojam                             IPM Program
N*FP                                ARI, Tarnab                               IPM Program
Baluchiatan                         ARI, Sariab                               IPM Program
To be identified                          To be identified
5. Other Provincial
Priority Research to be
Identified in Provincial
Research Master Plans
MMWP)



-158-
ANEX 12
T"able 2
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
National Proarams
Priority Research Area                     Research Institute                          Research Programs
1.  Horticulture                          Horticultural Division.                   (i) Improved cultivar
National Aaricultural                     introduction, improved
Research Center (NARC),                   nuraery management
Islamabad
(ii) Biotechnology program
(iii) Post-harvest
physiology
2. Livestock                              (a) Arid Zone Research                    Ongoing, AZRlI/ICARDA
Institute (AZRI). Quetta                  livestock research for
Baluchistan
(b) AZRI, Umarkot                        Nutrition, range, and
Substation                                watershed research
(c) Range and Watershed                  Pothwar Tract ranching
Section, NARC                            model
3. Soil Science                           (a) Soil Section, NARC,                   li) Soil Physics Program
Islamabad
(ii) Soil chemistry/soil
fertility program
(b) Soil Survey Institute                Computerization of soil
of Pakistan. Lahore                       data
(c) Pakistan Council of                  Water use efficiency at
Research in Water                         farm level
Resources, Islamabad
4.  Intearated Pest                       NARC, Islamabad                           IPM program
Management
5. Social Sciences                        (a) Agricultural Eocnomic                 Social science research
Research Unit (AERU), NARC,
Islamabad
(b) AERU, AARI, Faisalabad               Social science research,
(c) AERU, ARI, Tandojam                  Social science researcI
(d) AERU, ARI, Tarnab                    Social science research
(e) AERU, ART, Sariab                    Social science resealch
(f) AERU, Muzaffarabad                   Social science research
(g) Faculty of Agricultural              Social science research
Economics and Rural
Sociology, AUF
(h) Faculty of Agricultural              Social science research
Social Sciences, SAU
6. Other Research                         NARC, Islamabad                           Research as contained in
NARC's long-term research
plan titled Research Master
Plan



- 159 -
ARE 12
Table 3
Page 1
AGRlCULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Priority Research ProErams: Nationally Coordinated Programs
Priority Research Area                     Coordinated Proaram                        Particinating Institute
1.  Livestock                            Ca) Dairy Cattle Cross-                   (i) mARC. Islamabad
breeding
(ii) LPRI, Bahardur Nagar,
Punjab
(iii) Livestock Experiment
Station, Quadirabad, PunJab
(iv) Livestock Experiment
Station, Bhunekey, Punjab
(v) Directorate of Animal
Husbandry, Harichand Cattle
Farm, NWFP
(vi) AUP, Peshawar
Cvii) Directorate of Animal
Husbandry, Livestock
Station Tando Muhammad
Khan, Sind
(viii) SAU, Tandojam
.ix) Directorate of Animal
Husbandry, Quetta and
Pishin Dairy Farms,
Balucbistan
Cb) Buffalo Breeding,                    (i) Department of Animal
Nutr3tion, and Health                    Reproduction, College of
Veterinary Sciences, Lahore
Cii) Department of Animal
Reproduction, SAU
(iii) Department of Animal
Reproduction, AUF
(iv) MARC, Islamabad
tv) LPRI, Bahadur Nagar
(vi) Semen Production Unit,
Quadirabad
(vii) Livestock Farm for
Kundi Buffalo, Rohri
(viii) Department of
Biological Sciences, Quad-
e-Agam University,
Ialamabad
(ix) Nuclear Institute for
Agriculture and Biology,
Faisalabad
(x) Veterinary Research
Institute, Lahore.
2.  Soil Science                         Ca) Soil Physics Program                  (i) Soil Section, NARC,
Ialamabad
(ii) Soil Fertility Survey
Institute, Lahore
Wii) AARI, Faisalabad



- 160 -
ANX12,
Table 3
Page 2
Priority Research Area                     Coordinated Prosram                         Particinatina Institute
(iv) ARI, Tandojan
(v) ARI, Tarnab
(vi) ARI, Sariab
(b) Soil Chemistry/Soil                   (i) Soil Section, RARC.
Fertility Program                         Islamabad
(ii) Soil Fertility Survey
Institute
(iii) hARI, Faisalabad
(iv) ARI, Tandojam
(v) Rice Research
Institute, Dokri
(vi) ARI, Tarnab
Cvii) ARI, Sariab



- 161 -
ANNEX 13
PAKISTAN
ACUICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Key Tasks                                    Date                   Agency Resnonsible
1. Consultants
a) Provinces and PARC maiajor contract) request
consultant proposals                                June 14, 1990     Punjab, Sind, Baluch., NWFP & PARC
b) Determine most responsive proposals                 Sep. 13, 1990
c) Sign contracts no later than                        Dec. 31, 1990
d) Sign contracts no later than                        Dec. 31, 1990      Soil Survey Lahore
2. Rssearch Reorsanisation
a) Establish Provincial Management Support Units       Dec. 31, 1990      Provinces
b) EstabUsh PRMP Working Groups                        Oct. 31. 1990      Provinces
c) Punjab & Balucbistan change Public Service
regulations and -tablish Research Boards            Jun. 30, 1991     GOPunjab & GOBaluchistan
d) Issue statement on national rnsearch
priorities & resource allocation guidelines         Nov. 30, 1990     PARC
a) Sind establish SARD                                 June 30, 1991      GOSind
f) Complete first PRMP                                 Aug. 31. 1992      Provinces
g) Annually submit updated PRMPs to IDA                March 31           Provinces
3. Training
a) Identify first group of long-term trainees          Mar. 31, 1991      PARC and Provinces
b) Annually identify long-term trainees                August 31          PARC and Provinces
4. Social Sciences
a) Universities sign twinning arrangements             June 30, 1991     AUF and SAU
b) Sign MOU with PARC                                  Dec. 31, 1990      AUF and SAU
5. Proiect Reviews
Annual assessment of project by                        Nov. 30, 1991      PARC, Provinces & IDA
and
Nov. 30, 1992     PARC, Provinces & IDA
Obtain IDA approval mid-term
review TORs and teem                                   June 30, 1993      PARC
Undertake mid-term review by                           Jan. 31, 1994      PARC & Provinces



- 162 -                         ANEX 14
Page 1
PAKSTAN
AGRICULTUrAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Suoervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
1.        The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to
regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement,
correspondence and so on. The estimated annual staff time for regular
supervision is four staff weeks per year for the first three project years,
then three staff weeks per year for the remaining four project years.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.        Starting in February, 1991, project agencies will submit progress
reports not later than end-February and end-August each year. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC)
will be responsible for coordinating and presenting progress reports for
national research agencies, and collating the provincial reports for
submission to IDA. At the provincial level, the Secretariats of the Punjab
Agricultural Research Board, Sind Agricultural Research Organization,
Baluchistan Agricultural Research Board, and the Research Coordination Board
of NWFP's Agricultural University, would be responsible for preparing and
presenting progress reports of their respective provincial agricultural
research agencies.
3.        PARC's PIU would be responsible for coordinating and arranging
supervision mission itineraries, arrangements, and wrap-up meetings.
Table:  BAPK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Approximate
Dates                                   Expected Skill         Staff Input
(month/year)      Activity                  Reguirements         (staff weeks)
9-10/90     Supervision Mission          Ag. Economist                  3
(Review establishment        Agriculturalist
of PRMP Working Groups
and NSUs, hiring of
consultants).
1-2/91      Review hiring of             Ag. Economist                  3
consultants, com-            Agriculturalist
mencement of PRMPs           Research Administrator



- 163 -
Page 2
Approximate
Dates                                   Expected Skill         Staff Input
(month/year)      ActiviitX                 Requirements         ,(staff weeks
4/91        Supervision Mission          Ag. Economist                  5
(Review design of            Agriculturalist
Crop Sciences Building       Research Administrator
Architect
9-10/91     Project Assessment Mission  Ag. Economist                   7
(Review overall project      Agriculturalist
implementation with          Livestock Expert
PARC and Provinces)          Research Administrator
3-4/92      Supervision Mission          Ag. Economist                  4
(Review establishment of    Agriculturalist
SARO, PARB and BARB)         Research Administrator
9-10/92     Project Assessment Mission  Ag. Economist                   7
(Review Overall Project      Agriculturalist
implementation with          Research Administrator
PARC and Provinces,          Livestock Expert
particularly PRMP
preparation)
1993        Two Supervision Missions    Ag. Economist                   8
Agriculturalist
Research Administrator
11/93       Mid-term Review              Staff member to liaise         2
1994 and    Two Supervision Missions    As required                     8
onwards



- 164 -                                ANNEX 15
Page 1
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
A.1 IBRD Sector Report: Pakistan Agricultural Research Sub-Sector Review,
No. 2961-PAK, May 21, 1980.
A.2 Winrock International: Kid-term Review Report, Agricultural Research
Project (IDA Cr.1158-PAK), February, 1986.
A.3 Dr. Tillo Ulbricht: Three Reports on Research Monitoring and Evaluation,
PARC, December, 1986, March, 1987, and November, 1987.
A.4 Dr. E.T. York: Pakistan's National Coordinated Research Programs, PARC,
June, 1987.
A.5 NARC/USAID/Winrock Report: Research Master Plan for NARC, October, 1988.
B. Reports and Studies Dealing with the Project
B.1 FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program: Pakistan Agricultural Research II Project,
No. 165/87 CP-PAK 41, December 18, 1987.
B.2 PARC: Management of Overseas Training Programs, February, 1988.
B.3 PARC: Establishment of Agricultural Research Institute for the Northern
Areas, PC-1, 1986.
B.4 FAO/IBRD CP: Identification Mission Aide-Memoire, April 8, 1987.
B.5 IDA/IBRD: Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, April 20, 1988.
B.6 IDA/IBRD: Project Implementation Volume, February, 1989.
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 Eric Wells, Working Paper: Livestock Research Programs.
C.2 IBRD Working Paper: Reorganization of Provincial Research Systems,
May 26, 1988.
C.3 J. Anderson, Working Paper: Agricultural Social Science Research.
C.4 D. Sutton, Working Paper: Soil Science Research Programs, December, 1988.
C.5 N. Yates, Working Paper: Livestock Research Programs, December, 1988.



- 15-                                  ANNEX 15
Page 2
C.6 Sadding.on, Working Paper: Agricultural Economic Reseach Units, April,
1987.
C.7 S. Freiberg, Working Paper: Horticultural Research Programs, December,
1988.
C.8 S. Freiberg, Working Paper: Research Organization and Management,
December, 1988.



PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II rROJECT
Organizational Chart for Expanded PARC Planning Directorate
.oDirector Planning
Chief Scientific Officer (BPS-20) S
l        ~~5 Personal Staff
(( BPS-16, 2 BPS-15,
1 BPS-7, I BPS-1)
One B| andBPS-liwoldlooafterlanDevelopmnt;oneprocessingoMonitoring               and          e         In 
|Panning Unit ||Implementation Unit ||Evaluation UniI                                                    Inventory Ui   
I Principal SO (BPS-19)            1 Principal SO (BPS-19)            1 Principal SO (BPS-19)             1 Principal SO (BPS-19)
3 Senior SOs (BPS-18) /2           2 Senior SOs (BPS-18) /3           2 Senior SOs (BPS-18) /4            2 Seniior SOs (BPS-18)
3 S0s (BPS-17) 12                  2 SOs (BPS-17) /3                  2 SOs (BPS-17) /4                   2 SOs (BPS-17)
8 Support Staff                    8 Support Staff                    8 Support Staff                     8 Support Staff
(1 BPS-15, 3 BPS-12,
2 BPS-11, 1 BPS-5,
1 bps-1)
L1 Basic Pay Scale - 20
/2 One BPS-18 and BPS-17 would look after Plan Development; one processing of major projects; and one processing of
minor projects.
/3 One BPS-18 and BPS-17 would look after major projects and one minor project.
/4  One BPS-18 and one BPS-17 would look after monitoring of projects, and one, evaluation.



MAP SECTION



AGRICULTURAL REWARCH 11 PROJECT                                                                       17us  .HINA
MAIN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS                                        2      k--o
AND AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                                  r
RESEARH 0NSnmani                                                K     ( 
0     O.SIIII t fe _                               Lvil 
o    . -4s h500"
o    flUi$ U4  IMS55r                                                     2. lU II;AP\ si
Aguu-ecuhgladbboundaule
AGlOWOLOA  ZON                                                     \                            A      M
Vll    o-EeoInIeLzoEs                                                           ...E5 <P __           t > rASJM
I    kun de-ld t Ia
IV   Ncrden inigasd plahi (ah)
VI   Wetmw.ukhw                                                                                       KANDI/
VII  Norduan dry mASHAahR
Vill  Westam dry amkta-                                       400
Ix   Ory w_epmu                                              ?o  .'
x    S9kp:I  I -                                            C                         Iu
Cmiiil Inigame us                                      r~
|~~~~-           buehs h i /
* Naflanal cap*)aI
-3r            e     l                                                      °Wa0 Nte                 .- 
0   0dm dOss mu to~uG,uud 
N._     \ ---      - Nowkurlb uukw°o
I  ~     IND     
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oX~~~~~~~~ A FGHA                                                     U           N j   }/i-/4- -
ISLAMIC
REP. OF IRAN t'
RE.  A\                                                 S     D 1  '                 50   2          250
ix~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
AS   Rd A                                \S Ie AXs N                      (
2(S   r$&  07



