Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18686
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT
(CREDIT NUMBER 2154-PAK)
December 11, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0  Rs. 21.95 in 1990 (at appraisal), Rs. 23.84 in 1991, Rs. 25.14 in 1992, Rs. 28.13 in
1993, Rs. 30.64 inl994, Rs. 31.68 in 1995, Rs. 36.13 in 1996, Rs. 41.19 in 1997, Rs.
44.27 (at completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AERU        Agricultural Economics Research Unit  MIS         Management Information System
ARI         Agricultural Research Institute       MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
ARP-I       Agricultural Research I Project (Cr. 1158-  MSU   Management Support Unit
PAK)                                  MTR         Mid-term Review
ARU         Adaptive Research Unit                NARC        National Agricultural Research Center
ASIP        Agricultural Sector Investment Project  NCRP      National Coordinated Research Program
AUF         Agricultural University, Faisalabad   NMARP    National Master Agricultural Research
AUP         Agricultural University, Peshawar                 Plan
AZRC        Arid Zone Research Center             NWFP        North West Frontier Province
AZRI        Arid Zone Research Institute           PARC       Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
BARB        Baluchistan Agricultural Research Board   PARB    Punjab Agriculture Research Board
CGS         Competitive Grants System             PC-I        Planning Commission Form No. I
DCA         Development Credit Agreement          PCRWR    Pakistan Council of Research in Water
ECNEC       Executive Committee of the National               Resources
Economic Council                      PIU         Project Implementation Unit
GIS         Geographic Information System         PRMP        Provincial Research Master Plan
GOB         Government of Balochistan             PSC         Project Steering Committee
GONWFP   Government of North West Frontier        SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
Province                              SARO        Sindh Agricultural Research Organization
GOP         Government of Pakistan                 SAU        Sindh Agricultural University
GOPUN       Government of Punjab                  TAIPAN    Transformation and Integration of
GOS         Government of Sindh                               Provincial Agricultural Network Project
ICB         International Competitive Bidding     UM          University of Minnesota
IDA         International Development Association  UNE        University of New England
ISNAR       International Service for National    USAID       United States Agency for International
Agriculture Research                              Development
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MINFAL    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Livestock
77    7        ~~~~Vice President:            Mieko Nishimnizu
..  < ::   - a ; ~Country Director:'t          Sadiq Ahmed               : 
Sector Managers:              Ridwan Ali and Michael Baxter    20 
S            .    ~~~~~~Task Leader:              Ivar Serejski-



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface           .........................................................i
Evaluation Summary .........................................................                                                                 ii
Part 1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................                                        I
A. Project Objectives ..........................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives ..........................................................1
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................................................                                 I I
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                                              13
E. Bank  Performance .........................................................                                                   13
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................                                               14
G. Assessment of Outcome .........................................................                                               14
H. Future Operation .........................................................                                                   14
1. Key  Lessons Learned .........................................................1  5
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1. Summary of Assessments ...................................................                                             16
Table 2. Related  Bank  Loans/Credits ...................................................                                        18
Table 3. Project Timetable ...................................................                                                   19
Table 4. Loan/Credit Disbursements; Cumulative Estimated and Actual ........................ 19
Table 5. Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................                             20
Table 6. Key  Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                              20
Table 7. Studies included  in the Project ...................................................                                   20
Table 8a.Project Costs ...................................................                                                      21
Table 8b. Project Financing ...................................................                                                 22
Table 9. Economic Costs and  Benefits ...................................................                                       22
Table  I Oa. Status of Legal Covenants (Original Agreements) ......................................... 23
Table  I Ob. Status of legal Covenants (Amended Agreements) ........................................ 25
Table  I 1. Compliance with Operational manual Statements ............................................ 26
Table  12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................                                     27
Table  13. Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................                                         28
APPENDICES
1. Mission's Aide-Memoire
2. Borrower's Comments
MAP
IBRD Map No.21279
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlly in the
perfornnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT (Cr. 2154-PAK)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Research 11 Project
in Pakistan for which Cr.2154-PAK in the amount of SDR44.40 million (US$57.3 million) was approved
on 27 July, 1990 and made effective on 2 August, 1991. The IDA Credit was closed on June 30, 1998. A
total of SDR4.0 million (US$5.16 million) was cancelled. The Credit was not fully disbursed at
completion, with SDR12.33 million (US$17.282 million) remaining unspent which has been cancelled
effective October 31, 1998, which is the final date of payment under the Credit.
The ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO World Bank Cooperative Program, which
visited Pakistan from 9-27 June, 1998. It is based on material in the project files, field investigations and
discussions with staff of the World Bank, Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC), Project
Management Units of PARC and the provincial governments, and research institutes and centers of PARC
and North West Frontier, Baluchistan, Sindh and Punjab provinces associated with the project.
Representatives of the above agencies contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting data
required, arranging field visits and meetings with research staff concerned with the project, and providing
comments reflected in both the mission's Aide Memoire and the ICR. The Borrower's comments are
appended to the ICR.
1 Drs. D. A. Ivory (Mission Leader) and P. J. Smith (Research Institutions Specialist, Consultant).



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II PROJECT (Cr. 2154-PAK)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I.         The Govemment of Pakistan (GOP) requested assistance from the International Development
Association (IDA) to further develop and strengthen its agricultural research services following prior support
(first Agricultural Research Project; Cr II 58-PAK) to strengthen the federal research system to enable it to
guide and co-ordinate research throughout Pakistan.
Project Objectives and Components
2.         The original Development Credit and Project Agreements of July 27, 1990 were revised
twice, first by the Association's letter of April 28, 1993 and for the second time, in July 25, 1995, as a
result of the mid-term review (MTR) of February 1995. The original objectives were modified only
slightly. The revised objectives were to: (i) improve andc strengthen research capabilities at the provincial
level through the establishment of a basic inistitutionalfranaework within which a better research program
may be developed, (ii) support priority agricultural research programs both at the federal and the
provincial level, (iii) consolidate and complement the achievements already made in improving and
strengthening agricultural research capabilities at the federal level, and (iv) improve and strengthen the
linkages between agricultural research and agricultural extension. The project supported: the creation,
equipping and training of staff of Management Support Units (MSUs) for these bodies and the provision
of additional staff (research scientists and staff for MSUs), research and administrative buildings, vehicles
and laboratory equipment, human resource development (78 places for Ph.D.and 34 places for
M.Sc./M.Phil. courses overseas and 1,200 months of local and 300 months of overseas short-term
training); and 327 months of international and 96 moniths of national technical assistance (TA) in
management and in research. In support of the second objective, the project provided for the production
of provincial and national research master plans; infrastructure and operational support for selected
priority research programs; and introduction of a Competitive Grants System (CGS), following the project
mid-term review. The third objective to further strengthen the federal research system was to be achieved
through: construction of scientific and administrative buildings for PARC/NARC and its distant
institutes/centers; laboratory equipment; techinical assistance (127 months of international and 30 months
of national TA) and human resource development (places for 32 Ph.D. and 6 M.Sc./M.Phil. courses
overseas and 372 months of local and 161 months of foreign short-term training); and support to two
Agricultural Universities, mainly to strengthen their social sciences disciplines. The project aimed to attain
the fourth objective  through joinlt diagnostic studies, creation of Adaptive Research Centers, and
strengthiening of the Agricultural Economics Research Units (AERUs).
3.     Special Covenants and Agreements. Major covenants concerned: reorganization of PARC
Planning Directorate; the assignment of overall coordination responsibility for agricultural research (in the
wide sense) to newly established provincial autonomous research bodies, and delegation to them of
powers to establish their own rules; establishing MSUs; provision of funds in support of the twinning of
Sindh Agricultural University (SAU) and Agricultural University Faisalabad (AUF) with overseas



iii
universities; and preparation of provincial and national research master plans. Following the project mid-
term review, it was agreed that the CGS would be initiated, and that the provinces would assume financial
responsibility for continuing this work following project closure.
4.         Evaluation of Objectives. The four main objectives are clear, relevant, and build on earlier
bank lending.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.         Project Success. While there was significant variation between provinces in project
implementation, overall the project outcome was unsatisfactory, as it failed to fully achieve each of its
four main objectives. While the project has met or slightly exceeded some of its physical targets by Credit
closure (such as awards of overseas training fellowslhips, TA support, procurement of vehicles and
equipment and most of the civil works), all of these were achieved very late, thereby minimizing the
potential benefits. Many activities, for example the development of priority research programs, were
severely limited by the very delayed preparation of national and provincial master plans and the
slow/delayed release of funds. These delays arose from deficiencies of the Government's institutional
systems and procedures, inappropriate choice of strategies to achieve the project objectives, and
interactioin of these factors. Overall, there was little significant improvement in research/extension
linkages, although there was variation between provinces.
6.         Costs and Financing Arrangements. The final total project cost (following completion of
Credit disbursement by October 31, 1998) is estimated at Rsl,925 million (US$55.023 million), against
the original estimated cost of Rsl,770 million (US$81.933 million). The large devaluation (120%) of the
Rupee against the Dollar during the project period meant that while total project expenditure was 9%
greater in Rupee terms it was 33% less in Dollar terms. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR44.40 million
(US$57.30 million), SDR28.070 million (US$40.123 million) had been disbursed to the GOP by final
Credit closure oni October 31, 1998. A total of SDR4.0 million (US$6.219 million) of the Credit was
cancelled during the project period. The undisbursed Credit at October 31, 1998 was SDR12.330 million
(US$17.282 million). The use of the Credit was not only greatly reduced, but also considerably delayed
with only 20% of the Credit disbursed in the first four years.
7.        Implementation Timetable. There was no detailed activity timetable prepared in the SAR.
Implementation of most components was greatly delayed. TA was expected to be in place in 1991 (but
was actually in place in 1993); the research master plans were expected in 1992/93 (actually becoming
available in 1997); and the long-term overseas training (Masters and PhDs) was expected to be initiated
by June 1991 and completed by June 1998 (but was not started until 1994 and will only be completed by
June 1999, with fellowship costs for the post-project closure period pre-paid, with special permission from
the Bank).
Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives.
8.         The failure of the project to fully achieve its major objectives was a result of the inability of
the provinicial governments to complete the institutional changes envisaged in the research system and the
delayed establishment of an effective project management system. The failure to achieve project
objectives was associated with the following factors:
(a)  Project Designi. While the SAR identified the risk arising from the expected difficulty in
reorganization of the research services, there was seemingly insufficient consultation with the



iv
relevant government departments to obtain the ownership and commitment to the basic concept of
the major institutional innovation and the detailed administrative and legal changes required. Both
the proposed innovation itself and the reliance on project covenants to obtain compliance were
based on the incorrect assumption that formal structures and procedures alone determine
organizational effectiveness. In addition, insufficient time was allocated for the administrative
processes required, in drawing up the implementation plan and the phasing of project activities
and expenditure, with the result that the expected timeframe for achievement of implementation
targets/components was over-ambitious.
(b)  Decision Making Process. The government administrative system is quite centralized, and many
of the prescribed processes require repeated scrutiny of matters already decided. The prevailing
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures resulted in significant delays in: approval of the umbrella
PC-I by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC); establishment of
provincial project MSUs and their staffing; procurement of equipment; contracting of TA
services; and placement of overseas trainees.
(c)  Management. There has been a rapid turnover of senior management staff within all provincial
government agencies associated with project implementation, resulting from the exercise of
personal influence over the placement of preferred staff members, the pursuit of attractive
postings and, at the higher levels, political changes. In addition, in many instances political and
highly personalized policy decisions have been made which cut across the intended functional
unity of the agricultural research system. Such factors have destabilized management, broken
continuity and commitment, and dissipated the benefits of training. Furthermore, the reduced
status of PARC has affected its autonomy and performance, and vitiated the project objective of
consolidating the achievements of ARP 1. Finally, the highly directive style of management
suppressed the contribution of middle-managers and scientists to improving institutional
performance, limited the extent to which project staff were able to discuss delays and problems
with senior staff, and in many cases cut off most attempts at establishing informal professional
links between Ministries/ Departments.
(d)  Financial. Budget policies and financial release and distribution procedures of the federal and
provincial governments (due largely to deteriorating fiscal imbalances of the successive regimes)
resulted in delays in utilization of the Credit and reductions and delays in actual counterpart
budget releases in each financial year.
9.         Performance of Bank. The perceived deficiencies in project design noted above should have
received deeper attention at Appraisal. The Bank participated in eleven supervision missions, and
conducted the mid-term review of the project; suggestions for improvements were comprehensive, and
appreciated by the Borrower. However, the Bank should have been more sensitive early in project
implementation to the major problem encountered in establishing the autonomous provincial agricultural
research bodies. Even before the MTR, the Bank should have thought to undertake an intensive, joint
examination of the underlying institutional and political issues, with a view to finding a mutually-
acceptable solution and agreed timebound framework for implementing the necessary institutional
framework reforms. Following the MTR, the Bank had to threaten to use its remedies twice. In both cases,
however, the GOB took some actions that led IDA to believe that all the reforms would be implemented as
agreed. However, this did not materialize. The Bank was mild in giving sufficient emphasis in its
supervision to project activities that would strengthen research-extension linkages.



v
10.       Performance of Borrower. There was a general lack of continuing ownership and
commitment to the project concept of autonomous research bodies at the higher levels of government,
which created difficulties in project implementation at the lower levels. Administrative, political,
managerial and financial constraints all contributed to an overall unsatisfactory performance of the
Borrower. Many covenants of the Development Credit Agreement were not fulfilled by the Borrower in
due time, leading to serious delays in project activities. The approval of the umbrella PC-I at the federal
level was unnecessarily delayed by up to one year, resulting in a delay of up to two years in the
appointment of the project director and key support staff in each province. This consequentially adversely
affected the implementation of training programs, contracting TA, preparing master plans and initiating
high prioirity research programs.
Future Operations, Sustainability, and Key Lessons
11.       Future Operations and Sustainability. Benefits from  training and improved research
facilities are probably sustainable. The sustainability of the research planning and prioritization processes
are more dependent on future funding and support as many of the research management innovations
(MSUs and their associated management tools) have not been institutionalized into a comprehensive,
functioning system. Of the autonomous research boards, the Sindh Agricultural Research Organization
(SARO) is unlikely to survive; the Punjab (PARB) and Baluchistan Agricultural Research Boards
(BARB) will probably continue, though with a narrowly agricultural research mandate, while the proposal
to replace the University-led integrated research system in NWFP with an autonomous provincial body is
still uncertain. Adequate funding from governments will be critical to the survival of autonomous research
bodies beyond Credit closure. The CGS established under the project is likely to survive in Punjab, and in
NWFP and Baluchistan if support from the proposed World Bank Agricultural Sector Investment Project
materializes, but not in Sindh.
12.       Key Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned from the project are concerned with issues
associatecl with project design, implementation planning, institutional change, management performance,
and project performance:
(a)  Project Design. Over-ambitious project design and objectives should be avoided. In
particular, a national level project should be avoided where project design is complicated,
project scope is extensive and implementation difficult thus causing difficulties in providing
adequate supervisory support to all four provinces and also the federal level.
(b)  Imiplementation Planning. An implementation timetable should take into account the
aciministrative realities of the processes for appointing key project staff, mobilizing counterpart
funds, and initiating activities with long lead times (particularly appointing key staff,
procurement, recruitment of TA, and legislative components of major institutional changes) and
the major deficiencies in Government administrative and financial systems. The possibility of
dealing with these matters in a relatively long pre-project period where appropriate covenants
must be met before project funding commences should be considered. The use of computer-based
methods to prepare realistic implementation schedules should be considered and phased
expenditure forecasts should be based on these analyses.
(c)  Institutional Change. Where institutional change is needed, it is essential to evaluate the options
of either (i) creating new bodies, regulations and administrative procedures or (ii) providing the
resources and human skills required to enable staff to function better within the existing structure.
Where substantial institutional change is envisaged, it is necessary to thoroughly analyze existing



vi
systems as a basis for designing these new institutional structures, rules, procedures, management
strategies and tactics, and for designing programs of change to bring them into effective existence.
It is essential that these processes are carried out in collaboration with all the parties involved on
the Government side.
(d)  Management Performance. It is essential that designated individuals be given responsibility for
the management of the project and each of its major components, and that they retain these
positions throughout the project in order to achieve commitment, vision and managerial stability.
(e)   Unsatisfactory project performance. The Bank should be less compromising and terminate
projects or components of a project when there is a persistent unsatisfactory performance.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURE RESEARCH II PROJECT
(Cr. 2154-PAK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
I.        Project Objectives and Scope. The project's original main objectives were to: (i)
improve and strengthen research capabilities in the provinces, (ii) consolidate and complement the
advances achieved under the first Agricultural Research Project (ARP I) at the federal level, that is
with the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) and National Agricultural Research Center
(NARC), (iii) support high priority research programs at the provincial and federal level, and (iv)
improve and strengthen research/extension linkages. The major thrust of the project was to
preferentially strengthen research capacity in livestock, soils, horticulture, integrated pest
management (IPM) and social sciences, as well as research management, as research capacity in
these areas was identified as being much weaker than in other research disciplines, both at the
provincial and federal levels, thus building on the achievements of ARP 1.
2.        Project Changes after Appraisal. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
Project Agreements were revised twice: first, by the Association's letter of April 28, 1993 and later,
by the letter of July 25, following the mid-term review (MTR) in February 1995. The original
objectives were only modified slightly. The revised objectives were to: (i) improve and strengthen
research calpabilities at the provincial level through the establishment of a basic institutionalframework
within wthich a better research program m7ay be developed, (ii) support priority agricultural research
program7)s both at the federal and the provincial level, (iii) consolidate and complement the achievements
alreadyv made in improving and strengthening agricultural research capabilities at the federal level, and
(iv) improve andcl strengthen the linkages between agricultural research and agricultural extension.
3.        Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives were clear, realistic, and built on
foundations laid with the help of an earlier IDA Credit.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Improve and Strengthen Research Capabilities in the Provinces
4.        Staffing. In the four provinces, a total of 231 additional staff were proposed to be
recruited for (i) the Management Support Units (MSUs) to be established under the project, and (ii)
identified scientific positions. While the allocated positions were filled in North West Frontier
Province (NWFP) and Baluchistan province, many positions remained vacant at the end of the
project in Punjab province (47%) with fewer vacancies remaining in Sindh province (9%). Many of



2
the proposed incremental staff were, in fact, transferred from elsewhere in the government system,
often without replacements. There appear to be no permanent staff in the provincial agricultural
research boards and their associated MSUs, as staff are reluctant to be permanently assigned to these
bodies because of concerns over job security and pension rights. The appointment of key project staff
was delayed by the procedures required to provide local budget for them, which, in turn, was delayed
by the late approval of the umbrella (federal) Planning Commission Form I (PC-I), the local project
implementation document.
5.         Civil works. A limited amount of construction of new facilities was proposed under the
project. Facilities constructed included administrative buildings, library and seminar halls, green and
shade houses and garages in Sindh province, and an administrative block (not completed due to
contractor dispute) and shade house in Baluchistan province. No facilities were proposed in NWFP,
and in FPunjab province the proposed administrative building was not started because of a land
dispute.
6.         Equipment and vehicles. Vehicles were purchased by all provincial governments to
improve mobility of administrative and research staff. While in NWFP and Baluchistan, these were
purchased early in the project, in the other provinces many vehicles were only purchased towards the
end of the project. Some strategic equipment was purchased for laboratories in all provinces. Most
equipment purchased was for soils research (soil physics and soil chemistry), horticultural research
and livestock research. Considerable delays occurred in the purchase of all equipment requiring
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (refer para. 43). A second major tranche of equipment
prepared for purchase during the last two years of the project could not be ordered and purchased
before Credit closure because of the administrative delays, equipment price escalation and
complicated bidding procedures.
7.         Long-term  Staff Training. Major emphasis has been given to human resource
development. The original proposal was to provide 75 Ph.D. and 25 M.Sc./M.Phil. fellowships for
long-term training in selected disciplines, for staff of provincial research institutes/centers, based on a
needs assessment at the time of project preparation. All Ph.D. and M.Sc./M.Phil. fellowships were
undertaken at overseas universities. It was proposed that the provinces would identify the first group
of trainees by March 31, 1991 and that all long-term training fellowships would be taken up by June
1994. Placemnent of all fellowships was considerably delayed. Fellowship targets were exceeded, with
a total of 78 Ph.D. and 34 M.Sc./M.Phil. fellows placed overseas. The last fellowships were only
approved and placed overseas late in 1995, which has meant that while 79% of M.Sc./M.Phil.
candidates have returned, only 6% of the Ph.D. candidates have returned.2 Some eight candidates
dropped out for various reasons.' The major problem with this program was that the selection
processes did not commence early enough and the responsibility for placement was assigned to the
technical assistance (TA) contractors (except in NWFP). Thus the delays in establishing the project
managers and MSUs for the provincial components of the project (para. 15) and recruitment of the
TA (para.9), inevitably caused serious delays in the staff training program. Except in the case of
Discipline areas chosen for post-graduate studies were in line with the major thrust of the project which was to
preferentially strengthen research capability in soils, horticulture, IPM, livestock and social sciences and research
management.
2 The Banik has approved the provision and allocation of sufficient funds with the relevant technical assistance
contractors to finance the completion of the outstanding period of unreturned fellows.
Seven students failed and one student has deceased.



3
Baluchistan province, where there was limited local experience in overseas student placement, the
weak structure of the apex bodies with persistent staff shortages was probably the main cause to
assign this responsibility to the TA contractors in Sindh and Punjab provinces.
8.        Short-term Staff Training. An extensive program of both overseas and local short-term
training was also provided. It was proposed that a total of 300 months of overseas and 1,200 months
of local training would be provided for both scientific/technical and managerial staff to meet critical
training needs in horticulture, livestock, soil science, IPM and social science and for research
management and organization. In addition, to this more specific training, some local training funds
were used for attendance at local seminars, workshops and conferences. The short-term training
program was underutilized, with a total of 225 months and 1,007 months used for overseas and local
training, respectively. There has been no assessment of the value of this short-term training.
9.        Technical Assistance (TA). TA was seen as essential for planning and implementation
of parts of the project. A total of 423 months of technical assistance was proposed for the four
provinces, 327 months for expatriate assistance and 96 months for local consultants. Recruitment of
TA was, however, delayed by more than two years due to extremely slow processing of the TA
bidding and contractual arrangements. This caused two major problems. Firstly, the long-term
training program was delayed by more than two years, as responsibility for student placement at
overseas universities was given to TA contractors in Baluchistan, Sindh and Punjab provinces.
Secondly, the Provincial Research Master Plans (PRMPs), which required a major input from TA,
were completed more than three years after the original scheduled completion date. However, once
started, the TA input has generally been appropriate and well appreciated by those closely involved
with the consultants (but not perhaps generally), except in Baluchistan where seemingly some aspects
of the performance of consultants were criticized. Many valuable reports were produced by the
consultants, but relatively few of the recommendations to improve research management systems,
research programs and research methodologies and practices have been implemented or followed up.
10.       Institutional Reorganization. A major objective of the project was to establish
autonomous apex research bodies in Sindh, Punjab and Baluchistan provinces to manage research in
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. Different institutional arrangements were foreshadowed
in each province.
11.       North West Frontier Province. In NWFP the project objective was to maintain the
existing institutional relationship where the Government of NWFP, assisted by the USAID-financed
Transformation and Integration of Provincial Agricultural Network Project (TAIPAN), had
transferred responsibility for crop and livestock research from the Department of Agriculture to the
Agricultural University, Peshawar (AUP) in the late 1980s. Project implementation was therefore the
responsibility of the Vice Chancellor of the University, who, through a Director General of research,
had responsibility for managing research in research institutes/centers and stations in agriculture and
livestock production, but not in animal health, fisheries and forestry. The revised Project Agreement
of July 1995 provided for the submission of a time-bound action plan to address key institutional
issues identified during the MTR as well as the merger of AUP and agricultural research. A draft plan
was prepared but never implemented.
12.       Baluchistan Province. In Baluchistan province the project supported the establishment of
the Baluchistan Agricultural Research Board (BARB) which was proposed as an autonomous body to



4
control allocation of research resources in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. While BARB
was finally established and new rules of business promulgated, after much delay, research in forestry
and fisheries has not been included. Throughout the project duration, a major part of horticulture
research, and all of livestock research was outside the control of the Department of Agriculture.,
BARB now appears to command genuine support.
13.       Sindh Province. In Sindh province the project aimed to support the establishment of a
semi-autonomous research organization, to be called the Sindh Agricultural Research Organization
(SARO) which would merge the research activities of the Sindh Department of Agriculture (crops,
livestock and fisheries). SARO was established after considerable delay and with little commitment
(as indicated by the use of a legally weak Administrative Order). However, major institutional
restructuiring occurred during the project, which further prejudiced the establishment of a functioning
autonomrous research organization. The previous Ministry was divided into two new ministries, a
Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries and a Ministry of Agriculture, Science and Technology (MAST).
Subsequently, MAST was further divided with agricultural research being virtually the sole activity
of a separate Department under a Secretary for Science and Technology, cutting it off from
agricultural extension. Forestry is in a separate Ministry, although this structure is under review. It is
unlikely that SARO will continue to exist after Credit closure.
14.       Puni(ab Province. In Punjab province, the project supported the establishment of the
Punjab Agricultural Research Board (PARB) which was proposed as an autonomous body to control
research resource allocation in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. The establishment of
PARB has been a protracted. Initially it was established under Notification in 1991, with subsequent
strengthening of its position by the issue of an Ordinance in September 1996, which was renewed at
the requiired 3-month intervals until the passing of the Punjab Agricultural Research Bill in October
1997. From 1995 until 1997, PARB was transferred from the Agriculture Department to the Planning
and Development Department as its attachment, because of provincial dissatisfaction with its
progress. However, immediately after the Credit closing, it was again transferred back to the
Department of Agriculture. PARB's rules of business and conditions of service have yet to be
changed., Presently PARB is responsible for agriculture, livestock and fisheries research, but not
forestry research. In its present form, PARB is legally secure, and it is understood from the Planning
and Development Department that agricultural research is likely to receive increased financial
support in the near future from the Agricultural Income Tax.
15.       Management Support Units (MSUs). After significant delays, MSUs were established
in each province to advise on and assist with research planning, resource allocation, programming,
monitoring and internal evaluation. In Sindh province the MSU was established as a secretariat of
SARO. In NWFP the MSU was attached to the office of the Agricultural University of Peshawar's
(AUP) Director General of Research and as a secretariat for the AUP's Research Coordination Board.
In Punjab and Baluchistan provinces, MSUs were established and functioned as secretariats for
PARB and BARB, respectively. In addition, in Punjab smaller MSUs were also established for the
Director General's of Agricultural and Livestock Research. In-service training was provided for staff
of the MSUs as part of the international technical assistance to develop systems and skills for
planning and project budgeting, and to establish functional management information systems and
The horticultural section has become incorporated into the Department of Agriculture under BARB since project
closure.



5
monitoring and evaluation procedures. The skills and systems functionality achieved seems variable,
with some MSUs apparently unable to operate the systems piloted/established. In some cases, this is
attributed to a shortage of computer-literate staff, but there may be other reasons, such as managerial
commitment and non-evolution of work program for the limited institutionalization of the skills and
tools provided under the project.
16.       Management Information Systems (MIS). The International Service for National
Agricultural Research (ISNAR) "INFORM" methodologies have been introduced in most provinces,
using database software, as well as the introduction of spreadsheet software for preparation of
budgets, with support of the overseas technical assistance provided. It seems in many cases, however,
that fully functional systems oriented towards decision making have not been realized where the
relevant sections of the MSUs of the management bodies established under the project use such
systems routinely for management purposes.
17.       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The project provisions for establishing M&E
systems in provincial management units, although delayed, were ultimately adequate, and fairly fully
implemented with TA support. The systems established focus on the flow of core technical activities
of the project: planning and conduct of research, etc. However, no provision was made for
installation and training of a CPM-based project management system, to give staff the means to
prioritize, plan and control project implementation activities (recruitment, contracting TA and
training services, procurement, and administrative processes connected with budget, program
approval, etc.). This contributed to the delays. Initially, project staff were often unable to identify the
most critical tasks for immediate attention; later, delays were not identified until they had grown into
major problems.
Support Priority Research Programs at Provincial and Federal Levels
Provincial Level
18.       Research master plans. All provinces finally completed PRMPs after delays of three to
four years. The plans were based on information obtained from diagnostic studies and internal
reviews and discussions. Significant assistance from the international TA was utilized in finalizing
the documentation. The PRMPs produced are very comprehensive and generally achieved the
objectives of determining priority programs and projects for research, manpower requirements,
training needs, facilities, equipment and budget requirements for operations and maintenance and
capital and recurrent requirements for a five-year period for each province. Indicative additional
requirements for five years were also determined. Some work remains to be done. Plans have been
made on the assumption of some level of increased resources, but post-project financial resources
may be reduced. An effort is still needed to adjust the plans to current realities and to provide activity
timetables for the guidance of planning units. Furthermore, a final stage of development would be
required to identify and prioritize individual research studies within the often broad topics defined, as
this ultimately defines the quality of the scientific output. Within these limits, PRMPs are already
providing important resource documents for planning the development of provincial research
systems. Because these plans have only been completed recently there has been no opportunity to
update them on a regular basis as originally envisaged. The National Master Agricultural Research
Plan (NMARP) was prepared simultaneously and the information contained in the PRMPs was
consolidated into an input to the NMARP.



6
19.       Priority research programs. A major objective of the project was to orient the research
systems to only support research that was identified as being of high priority. Some high priority
research programs were identified at appraisal and additional priority research programs were to be
identifiecl during the PRMP preparation process. This was a major objective of the development of
PRMPs. But because of the delays in preparing the PRMPs, support for additional research programs
was only provided during the last two years of the project. Thus, although two groups of high priority
research programs were supported, overall budget support for this activity was greatly under-utilized.
However, in line with the objective of strengthening research in thematic areas which were
considered to have been poorly supported previously, priority has been given to research programs
concernedl with soils research (soil fertility and soil physics), integrated pest management,
horticulture (vegetables, fruits and ornamentals), livestock (animal nutrition) and in social sciences.
Although necessary, there has been no internal or external assessment of the quality and potential
impact o-f the priority research programs. A superficial assessment indicates variability in quality
with some very good programs (e.g., IPM in Sindh province) initiated and generally weak programs
in animal nutrition in all provinces, with the exception of Punjab. However, in some instances
changes in institutional arrangements have adversely affected some programs. For example, in
Balochistan province the fruit research program was taken outside the project following transfer of
this research unit to the Department of Agricultural Extension. Also in Punjab province an effective
IPM program has been stymied by the establishment of an IPM Institute, separately from an existing
Plant Protection Institute and separate Departments of Entomology and Plant Pathology, as well as a
lack of staff and functional laboratory for the IPM Institute. A common complaint from scientists, at
least in the provincial research systems, was that their priority research programs were adversely
affected by delays and reductions in budget allocations.
20.       Competitive Grants System (CGS). CGSs were established in all four provinces, as a
recommendation of the project's mid-term review. The CGS was introduced with a view to, inter
alia, (i) increase the allocative efficiency of funds for agricultural research, (ii) diversify the funding
away from block grants to government institutions and tap underutilized resources in the wider
research and development community, and (iii) quickly shift resources to address specific, high
national research priorities and farmer identified problems. Guidelines were established to set up a
system of advertising, submission and selection of proposals, which would be open to all research
agencies (both public and private) and universities, to be considered for funding of high priority
research. Fully functional CGSs were set up in NWFP, Baluchistan and Punjab provinces. In Sindh
province, however, although proposals were received and selections of research projects made, no
research was contracted to the applicants. Because of the relatively short time available for
implementation of the CGS within the remaining project period, this was considered a pilot scheme
and guarantees were obtained from the provinces that they would continue to fund these contracted
projects beyond Credit closure. Because most programs have only been undertaken for one year it is
too early to assess the effectiveness of the program. Support for the approved projects and the
program  may be provided for in Punjab, Baluchistan and NWF provinces under the proposed
Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP). The continuation of CGS program is, however,
problematic in Sindh province, which has not submitted proposals for funding under ASIP.
Federal Level
21.       Research in Priority Areas. The project: (a) supported research work in NARC in soil
fertility, chemistry and soil physics, and provided a new laboratory, Geographic Information System



7
(GIS), plotter, and digitizer to strengthen the Soil Survey of Pakistan program; (b) supported research
into improved water use efficiency, drainage and water recharge and water quality, and provided a
building, computer, and equipment to strengthen the Pakistan Council for Research in Water
Resources; (c) supported fruit, vegetable, mushroom and floriculture research in the Horticulture
Research Institute at NARC; (d) supported the National Coordinated Research Programs in buffalo
breeding and dairy cattle cross-breeding; (e) supported livestock research at the Arid Zone Research
Center (AZRC), Quetta; (e) supported rangeland research and long-term training at the Arid Zone
Research Institute (AZRI), Umerkot; and (f) supported research programs for development of
agriculture in upland and mountain areas at Karakorum Agricultural Research Institute, Jagalot and
the Himalayan Agricultural Research station, Kaghan. All centers/institutes/stations indicated that
research work was constrained by both delays and reductions in budget releases and by equipment
not being purchased and delivered from PARC. Despite these constraints, a superficial assessment of
the programs indicates that all have produced useful and relevant work, but less than anticipated.
There has been no internal or external assessment of the quality and potential impact of the priority
research programs, even though this would be useful.
22.       Competitive Grants Scheme (CGS). The CGS initiated from PARC attracted 101
applications for research grants, of which 49 recommended projects were submitted for the
Chairman's approval. However, approval was not given to these projects because of the shortage of
local funds from the GOP. The establishment of a functional CGS at the federal level will depend on
obtaining funding support under ASIP.
23.       Collaborative Research with Overseas Institutions. It was envisaged that PARC
would operate a small (US$0.5 million) collaborative research program between eminent overseas
research institutions and federal or provincial research institutes doing similar work. Only one such
program was initiated, although very late in the project period. PARC contracted a small
collaborative research program between IRRI and PARC/Provincial Governments which could not be
fully completed at Credit closure.
Consolidate and Complement Previous Support at Federal Level
Support to Pakistan Agricultural Research Council, National Agricultural Research Center
and Other Associated Institutes
24.       Institutional. Federal institutional restructuring during the project resulted in PARC's
incorporation under the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock (MINFAL) and has been
accompanied by a deterioration of its funding and functioning. The Council now receives allocations
from the Ministry, which are normally less than required or approved, and these releases are normally
late, and/ or piecemeal. At the same time, PARC's ratio of fixed cost: operational cost has
deteriorated to about 80:20. The Council acknowledges that this is partly the result of staff being
transferred to its non-development budget after each of a series of projects, a normal procedure.
Internally there has been a restructuring of PARC's Planning Directorate to constitute four-units,
including Planning and Programming, Review and Evaluation, Research Inventory and
Implementation and Monitoring Units. The new Directorate itself is functioning well, and made a
substantial contribution to the production of the National Master Agricultural Research Plan
(NMARP).



8
25.       Civil Works. Major infrastructure development was envisaged within the research
institutes and centers of PARC. A new crop science building for the Plant Science Division of NARC
was constructed and facilities at other distant locations were upgraded/expanded, including the
Northern Areas Research Center at Jagalot and Mountain Research Center at Kaghan. A new
laboratory and ancillary complex (42,000 ft2) was approved by IDA in 1995 for six programs (animal
health research, fisheries and aquaculture research, range and environment research, farming systems
research, technology transfer and seed sciences and technology), was also completed. Houses for
junior staff and an additional water supply system have also been constructed. All have been
completed, except at Gilgit where it is expected to be finished by the end of December 1998. This has
all been handled effectively by PARC's own engineers, in contrast to the poor experience with
contractors elsewhere in the project.
26.       Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment. Approximately 75% of the approved budget
has been spent, mainly on vehicles and scientific equipment. The preparation/bidding and ordering of
a second major tranche of equipment was very delayed and was cancelled because of impending
Credit closure (refer also para. 6).
27.       Long-term Staff Training. The objectives of long-term training for staff of the PARC
and its centers and institutes was the same as for the provincial research system (para. 7). Fellowships
were orig;inally proposed for 25 Ph.D. and 6 M.Sc./M.Phil. slots. With Bank agreement, these were
increased to 44 Ph.D. and 13 M.Sc./M.Phil. slots. This represents a substantial knowledge and skills
asset when all fellows return. However, because of delays in the implementation of the training
program, 5 Ph.D. and 5 M.Sc./M.Phil. students had not returned by Credit closure. These students
will complete their studies during 1998-99 and will be given further financial support by the Bank
beyond Credit closure.
28.       Short-term Staff Training. The utilization of overseas short-term training by staff of
PARC and its research centers and institutes also greatly exceeded original proposals. A total of 219
months of-overseas short-term training was undertaken, against 161 months allocated. However, local
short-teriTI training was greatly under-utilized with only 128 months utilized out of 372 months
allocated.
29.       Technical Assistance. Some 102 months of local and 188 of foreign TA were used,
mainly on the preparation of NMARP, and on specific scientific tasks connected with research. Both
exceeded the allocation of 30 and 127 months in the SAR. However, local TA remained within
budget. because of savings on rates. Both categories of TA appear to have performed well.
30.       Social Sciences. Special emphasis was given to strengthening economic and social
sciences research within PARC. The Social Sciences Division and its existing five Agricultural
Economic Research Units (AERUs), which are located in each province, were strengthened through
training and TA, and the provision of computers, vehicles and office equipment. An additional
AERU was opened in Azad Jammu Kashmir. In total some 200 studies were completed. In
Baluchistan, their future operations are indicated to be constrained by inadequate budget allocation
from PARC.



9
Support to Agricultural Universities
31.       Twinning agreements were signed between the Sindh Agricultural University (SAU) and
the University of Minnesota (UM), U.S.A; and between the Agricultural University, Faisalabad
(AUF) with the University of New England (UNE), Australia to strengthen the two agricultural
universities in social sciences disciplines. These provided for both long- and short-term training and
for technical assistance provided by staff of overseas universities on short-term visits to the host
universities.
32.       Long-term Training. The objectives of long-term training for staff of SAU and AUF
were the same as for the provincial research system (para. 7). Fellowships were originally proposed
for one Ph.D. slot for AUF and six Ph.D. slots for SAU. With Bank agreement, these were increased
to 6 and 11 Ph.D. slots, respectively. Only one student from each university had completed their
studies by early June 1998. The remaining students will only complete their studies during 1998-99
with support already provided by the Bank beyond Credit closure.
33.       Short-term Training. SAU greatly exceeded its allocated overseas short-term training
(66 months used vs. 18 months allocated) while the 12 months of local short-term training were fully
utilized. AUF greatly under-utilized its allocated short-term training, with only 18 out of 30 months
of overseas training used and none of the 72 months of local training used.
34.       Both twinning agreements were delayed by more than two years due to the prolonged
selection process and contractual disagreements. SAU experienced problems with equipment
procurement, some visa arrangements and use of some more junior faculty staff of UM  than
originally proposed, because of serious delays in initiation of the twinning agreement. Despite this,
the project provided strong support in strengthening the social sciences. Additional support in
veterinary sciences was provided outside the twinning agreements. The twinning agreement of AUF
with UNE was very satisfactory, resulting in a substantial number of genuine research collaborations,
as well as in considerable strengthening of the social sciences. Some difficulties with equipment
procurement were experienced.
Improve and Strengthen Research/Extension Linkages
35.       A major objective of the project was to improve and strengthen research-extension
linkages. Extension staff were involved with agricultural research scientists and social scientists in
the several diagnostic surveys carried out in all provinces to analyze and describe the agro-ecological
and socio-economic conditions that affect farming systems and from which priorities for research
were defined in the PRMPs. The establishment of Adaptive Research Coordination Units (ARUs) at
Agricultural Research Institutes in Punjab (Faisalabad), Baluchistan (Sariab), NWFP (Tarnab) and
Sindh (Tandojam) provinces and the strengthening of Agricultural Economic Research Units
(AERUs) at these same locations were envisaged as additional mechanisms to strengthen research-
extension linkages. However, while the ARUs undertook some adaptive research there was little or
no involvement of their staff with Subject Matter Specialists and staff of the Adaptive Research
Farms within the provincial Agricultural Extension Departments. Linkages between research staff
and AERUs also appeared limited. The concerns of the continued weak linkages between research
and extension are being addressed by the GOPUN with the submission of a recent concept paper
entitled "Feasibility Study for Restructuring of Punjab Agricultural Research and Extension System".



10
Project Financing and Costs
36.       Project costs. Total project cost is estimated at RsI,925 million (US$55.023 million),
which is 9% above the original estimated project cost of Rsl,770 million (US$81.933 million), but
because of a 120% devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar during the course of the project, is
33% bellow the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms. Project expenditure was considerably
delayed with only 6% of the estimated project costs expended in the first three years of the project
and only 22% expended after four years (in Rupee terms).
37.       Credit disbursements. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR44.40 million (US$57.30
million), SDR28.07 million (US$40.123 million) was disbursed to the GOP by final Credit closure on
October 31, 1998. A total of SDR4.0 million (US$6.219 million) of the Credit was cancelled during
project implementation. Only 20% of the Credit was disbursed in the first four years of the project.
The cancelled undisbursed Credit at October 31, 1998 was SDR 12.33 million (US$17.282 million).
38.       The funding support proposed under the project was for 59% of the funds to go directly
to the provinces and 41 % to PARC. Of the 41 % of funds allocated to PARC, 15% was to be used for
strengthening PARC and NARC with a further 26% of funds flowing through PARC to the two
agricultural universities (5% each) and to indirectly strengthen provincial research (16%) through
coordinated research programs, collaborative research, expansion of Agricultural Economic Research
Units and expanding PARC's remote research facilities. In fact, PARC consumed 44% of the IDA
credit disbursed to Pakistan, with proportionately more (about 8% each) going to the universities than
proposed, but the distribution of funds for PARC/NARC and those earmarked for indirectly
strengthening provincial research could not be determined. While the actual disbursement of IDA
Credit to the provincial governments (56%) was less than proposed, the funding support for NWFP
(10.7%) and Baluchistan (9.4%) provinces was proportionately about the same as proposed, but
Sindh province (19.6%) received greater support while Punjab province (16.6%) received lesser
support than planned. Overall IDA funding support for training (49%) and TA (23%), particularly
TA, was much greater than proposed, while for incremental research operating costs (13%) was less.
Project Benefits
39.       The serious delays in implementation of almost all components of the project have meant
that few benefits have been realized within the period of Credit disbursement. The major potential
benefit of'the project beyond Credit closure is expected to come from the upgrading of qualifications,
skills and knowledge of a significant number of researchers in the provincial research system. Also,
the introduction of the innovative CGS has potentially paved the way for expanding the role of the
private sector, universities and farmers' organizations and for fostering public-private partnerships.
This, together with improved research facilities and improved focus of research on priority areas
should ultimately result in the development of improved technologies for agricultural production.
Because of the delayed start, there has been no attempt by any research institution to assess the
impact of its research on agricultural development. However, initial results from research in
developing new crop varieties, cropping patterns, crop diversification, IPM procedures for a range of
important crops, etc., give positive indications of the longer term potential benefit from funding
priority areas of research. The realization of these potential benefits is, however, conditional on the
continued financing of these research programs. It appears that except in Punjab province, expected
reductions in research budgets will reduce funding for research programs.



II
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
40.       By the end of the project many of the physical targets had been achieved, but all were
severely delayed, thus adversely affecting a significant beneficial impact on research and research
system development within the time-frame of the project. The major achievements include (i) the
allocation of fellowships for long-term overseas training, (ii) the knowledge and skill transfer that
occurred from the TA provided, (iii) improved staff mobility and greater capacity and effectiveness
of research as a result of the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, (iv) the preparation of appropriate
guidelines for future research and system development as a consequence of the production of
provincial and national research master plans, and (v) the establishment of a substantial amount of
reasonably well-focused research following the funding of priority research programs and the
introduction of the competitive grants system. It has to be stressed, however, that these achievements
were only obtained towards the end of the project after three to four years of delayed implementation
performance. Overall, the project is considered unsatisfactory, as three of the major project objectives
were only partially achieved and the fourth objective of improving and strengthening
research/extension linkages was only minimally achieved. This unsatisfactory outcome was due to
many constraints associated with project design, bureaucratic, political, financial and managerial
factors which occurred during project implementation.
Factors not Under the Control of Government
41.       Problems were experienced with local contractors and entrepreneurs. In Baluchistan
province, the contractor for the construction of the BARB office building defaulted. In NWFP, the
supplier of project vehicles decamped after supplying only one vehicle out of eight, but with a
majority of the total purchase price paid. In Punjab province, there was a dispute over the acquisition
of land on which the PARB offices were planned to be constructed.
Factors Under the Control of Government.
42.       Continuity of Management. The rapid rotation of senior staff had a very damaging effect
on the project, as it contributed to lack of follow-through on decisions already taken. This appears to
have resulted from the exercise of personal influence over the placement of preferred staff members,
the pursuit of attractive postings, and - at the higher levels - political changes. However, all levels
were affected by this turbulence. Rapid staff rotation is destabilizing, breaks continuity and
commitment, and dissipates the effects of training. In many cases, major sections of the agricultural
research structure have never been incorporated into a single unit, or in others, have been moved
outside of it, such decisions being taken in a non-transparent manner. In the case of Sindh province,
there were major institutional changes made that divided ministries on political grounds rather than
for reasons of improved efficiency and effectiveness, which adversely affected the project's attempt
to create an autonomous research body. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture was further divided
by a policy decision to create a new post of Secretary for Science and Technology, responsible for
agricultural research (in the narrow sense, excluding livestock, fisheries, etc.) and training facility for
on-farm water management, although this arrangement is now under review. The changed
institutional arrangement for PARC has also had serious adverse effects on its autonomy and



12
functioning, as well as on the project objective of consolidating and complementing the advances
achieved under ARP I at the federal level.
43.       Administrative. Many of the decisions involved in implementation are centralized (e.g.,
procurement, confirmation of nomination of overseas trainees). Others are subject to repeated
scrutiny of matters already decided (e.g., the issue of actual staffing levels can be, and was, re-opened
during the administrative approval phase of release of funds) or require an excessive number of steps
in preparation, proposal and approval (e.g., procedural system for finalization, placement and
approval of equipment lists under ICB). At the same time, the unavoidable problems inherent in the
administrative processes in Pakistan were not taken into account in drawing up the implementation
plan or the phasing of the expenditure, with the result that both were over-ambitious in the early
years. Major groups of actions which got delayed by this complex of deficiencies were: the approval
of the umbrella PC-I by ECNEC; the establishment of a core management group of key full-time
staff for implementation of the project in each province; vehicle and equipment procurement;
contracting of TA services; and placement of overseas trainees. In addition, the existence of multiple
levels of control appears to have been the main cause of the serious divergence between the SAR and
the individual provincial PC-is that were incorporated into the umbrella PC-I.
44.       Financial. The release of counterpart funds and utilization of the Credit were greatly
delayed throughout the project. Not only were the amounts released much less than the proposed and
allocated budgets, but releases were invariably delayed until the latter part of each financial year.
This had serious implications both in planning support for priority research and in undertaking
research, which is often seasonal in nature.
Factors Subject To Implementation Agency Control.
45.       The deficiencies at this level were mainly managerial. The top-down, bureaucratic style
of management adopted by most senior managers is inappropriate to a professional service and has
suppressed internal debate where this was necessary. In Sindh, for example, project staff were
unwilling to raise the issue of the establishment of SARO because they believed that this would incur
the then Secretary's displeasure. The delay in PC-I approval and completion of subsequent steps
leading to Credit effectiveness, combined with the inherent length of the administrative processes
resulted in late appointment of the core project managerial staff in each province and the lack of any
project mianagement tools after they were appointed, allowing priorities to be overlooked and
emerging difficulties to be ignored. An apparent lack of effective feedback of problems encountered
in project implementation from M&E units to senior management also hindered implementation
effectiveness.
Factors Associated With Project Design
46.       The single most important design factor which has adversely affected the performance of
the project has been the great difficulty experienced in making institutional changes in the research
system and establishing autonomous research bodies for each province. This was a central feature of
design on which the success of most of the project components was dependent. Altogether the Bank
and preparation teams spent about two years discussing proposed institutional changes with the
involved gyovernment departments. The proposed institutional changes were in line with the 1988
Report of the National Commission on Agriculture. However, differing opinions/statements have



13
been provided as to the desirability, feasibility and commitment of such institutional changes at the
time of project preparation. In the end though, all governments agreed to such institutional changes
which were then translated into the original Development Credit and Project Agreements. What is
clear is that the potential difficulties and complexities in implementing the process of such change
were not adequately considered. Greater consultation with a wider audience (participatory
workshops) during project preparation would have provided a clearer understanding and appreciation
of factors which control vital steps of the process of change and the means to achieve this change.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
47.       While the benefits obtained from more knowledgeable and skilled staff and improved
research facilities are expected to be sustained, the sustainability of research programs and the
institutional and managerial improvements achieved are at serious risk. The institutional changes at
the federal level have weakened the autonomy and effectiveness of PARC. The general financial
crisis in Pakistan will mean that all government departments and agencies will receive restricted
budget allocations for the immediate future years. Some exceptions may occur as optimism has been
expressed regarding future funding of research in Punjab province. Funding shortages will result in
greatly restricted availability of funds for operational and maintenance expenditures in agricultural
research. This would have adverse effects on the realization of benefits from project investments in
human resource development, upgrading of research and support facilities and continued
implementation of identified priority research programs. Overall, the project has failed, though only
partially in the case of Punjab and Baluchistan, to establish the organizational and managerial
systems envisaged that were identified as necessary to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of
highly integrated and relevant research in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. Progress has
been made towards achieving functional flexibility of the apex bodies established in Punjab and
Baluchistan provinces. However, fully functional apex bodies are not yet in place in these two
provinces. In Sindh province little progress has been achieved, whilst in NWFP the project has failed
to address the post-merger issues identified during the project mid-term review. Sustainability of
these apex bodies will greatly depend on adequate govemment commitment and financing.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
48.       The Bank participated in eleven supervision missions, including an in-depth review, and
conducted the mid-term review of the project as well. The MTR and the second in-depth review
missions undertook a thorough analysis of the institutional reforms needed to ensure functional
flexibility of the research system. The suggestions given for improvement in project performance
were very comprehensive and seemed generally well appreciated by the Borrower. The continued
and close association of the resident Bank staff and the continuity of appraisal staff with project
implementation was also commendable. However, given the key importance of institutional changes
proposed to the provincial research systems, the Bank should have been more sensitive early in
project implementation to the difficulties arising from limited local commitment to the establishment
of autonomous provincial agricultural research bodies. Even before the MTR, the Bank should have
sought to undertake an intensive examination of the underlying institutional and political problems,
and engaged in participatory workshops with a view to finding a mutually acceptable solution.
Following the MTR, the Bank had to threaten to use its remedies twice. In both cases, however, the
GOB took some actions that led IDA to believe that all the reforms would be implemented as agreed.
However, this did not materialize. Some of the reason for delays in purchasing equipment also



14
appears to be due to the time taken by the Bank to process documents associated with the ICB
proceduires. The Bank was also mild to give sufficient emphasis to project activities that would
strengthen research-extension linkages, given that this was a major objective of the project.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
49.       While project implementation performance improved significantly with time, overall
Borrower performance is considered unsatisfactory. Whilst, given the inherent difficulties of the
government system, there may have been unreasonable expectations in the SAR of implementation
progress, much could and should have been done to speed implementation progress. Many covenants
of the DCA were not fulfilled by the Borrower in due time leading to serious delays. The serious
delay in the appointment of a project director and establishment of an implementation support unit in
each province was unnecessary and had serious consequential implications for many other important
activities (training programs, contracting of TA, preparation of master plans, etc.). Even in the early
years of the project, when the financial situation was more favorable, insufficient local funds were
made available and Credit disbursements were very slow. A significant amount of project resources
have been used for supporting ongoing operational expenses rather than funding new project
interventions. For example, project staff are largely transferees from other posts rather than new
incremental staff and a substantial share of the research financed by the project appears to have been
for ongoing experiments and studies rather than new priority research. In a few cases, it was reported
that project staff and vehicles had been assigned to other uses outside the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.       The overall assessment is that the project outcome is unsatisfactory. The four main
project objectives were only partially achieved, mainly because many of the implementation targets
were not achieved until very late in the project. While the proposed overseas training program was
exceeded, the national and provincial research master plans were prepared, the TA provision was
fully utilized and a substantial portion of the civil works was completed, all of these were achieved
very late in the project, thereby prejudicing their beneftts. Many other activities were not completed
satisfactorily even after eight years of project life, such as vehicle and equipment purchases and
incremental staffing. Most importantly, however, the research systems show only limited
improvement. They have certainly not achieved the project concept of integrated, autonomous
research systems with significantly improved research management, in which the research
environment and terms and conditions of employment should have been greatly improved, and where
all research is focused and adequately funded and supported.
H. FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
51.       Punjab province has recently organized a workshop on agricultural research and
extension with the aim of restructuring agricultural research and extension in the province.
Baluchistan province has established a committee to examine the further development of their
research system in which it is planned to establish a number of research stations in agro-ecological
zones. In NWFP a task force was constituted in 1997 to consider the future organizational
arrangements for agricultural research in the province and although a report was submitted in June
1997 no further developments have occurred. It is generally believed that physical resources are
adequate and need relatively little strengthening. The continued scarcity of funds for operations,



15
maintenance and capital development, however, does not seem to have engendered emphasis on the
potential for cost savings through rationalization of the size of the research system or to explore
mechanisms for tapping alternative sources of finances (both public and private). Further external
assistance, such as ASIP, is required to achieve effective research systems. However, this must be
done after thorough appraisal to ensure commitment at the highest levels to institutional change and
necessary changes in government bureaucratic procedures and research funding to achieve fully
functional, autonomous and integrated agricultural research systems.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
52.        Key Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned from the project are concerned with
issues associated with project design, implementation planning, institutional change, management
performance, and project performance:
(a)   Project Design. Over-ambitious project design and objectives should be avoided. In
particular, a national level project should be avoided where project design is
complicated, project scope is extensive and implementation difficult thus causing
difficulties in providing adequate supervisory support to all four provinces and also the
federal level.
(b)   Implementation Planning. An implementation timetable should take into account the
administrative realities of the processes for appointing key project staff, mobilizing
counterpart funds, and initiating activities with long lead times (particularly appointing key
staff, procurement, recruitment of TA, and legislative components of major institutional
changes) and the major deficiencies in Government administrative and financial systems.
The possibility of dealing with these matters in a relatively long pre-project period where
appropriate covenants must be met before project funding commences should be considered.
The use of computer-based methods to prepare realistic implementation schedules should be
considered and phased expenditure forecasts should be based on these analyses.
(c)   Institutional Change. Where institutional change is needed, it is essential to evaluate the
options of either (i) creating new bodies, regulations and administrative procedures or (ii)
providing the resources and human skills required to enable staff to function better within the
existing structure. Where substantial institutional change is envisaged, it is necessary to
thoroughly analyze existing systems as a basis for designing these new institutional
structures, rules, procedures, management strategies and tactics, and for designing programs
of change to bring them into effective existence. It is essential that these processes are
carried out in collaboration with all the parties involved on the Govemment side.
(d)   Management Performance. It is essential that designated  individuals be  given
responsibility for the management of the project and each of its major components, and that
they retain these positions throughout the project in order to achieve commitment, vision and
managerial stability.
(e)   Unsatisfactory project performance. The Bank should be less compromising and
terminate projects or components of a project when there is a persistent unsatisfactory
performance.



16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial     Partial     Negligible   Not Applicable
(4)           ()           (4)            (4)
Macro policies                        EL            El            El            El
Sector policies                       El            El           El             ED
Financial objectives                  El            El           El             El
Institutional development             E              ml          E]             El
Physical objectives                    ml          El            El             El
Poverty reduction                        l          El            E              E
Gender issues                         El            El            El 
Other social objectives               EL            E               l 
Environmental objectives              E                                         El
Public sector management              E             E             E             E
Private sector development            E             E             E             E
Other (specify)                       E             El            E             E
B. Project sustainability            Likely        Unlikely     Uncertain
(l)           (4)          (4)
Highly
C. Bank performance               satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(4)           (4)          (4)
Identification                      E             E            E
Preparation assistance              E            E              E
Appraisal                           E             E              [
Supervision                         E             E             E



17
Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
(4)           (v)         (4)
Preparation                                                     Z I  O
Implementation                                               F z   2
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)                       E     
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(v)          ()              (4)             (4)
Li   Li    Ei    L



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                      Purpose                     Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Punjab Agricultural      To introduce "Training and Visit" (T&V)    1978      Closed in June
Extension and Agricultural    system of agricultural extension in five core       1985
Development Project         districts of Punjab Province
(Cr.813-PAK)
2. Sindh Agricultural       To introduce T&V system in five core        1979      Closed in June
Extension and Adaptive      districts of Sindh Province by increasing             1985
Research Project (Cr. 922-    extension staff, providing regular training,
PAK)                        establishing research farms and two soil
testing laboratories.
3. Agricultural Research    To upgrade Pakistan's agricultural research  1981     Closed in
Project (Cr. I 158-PAK)     system by supporting establishment of PARC,           December 1987
providing technical assistance, staff training,
research program support at NARC, contract
research system for provincial institutes and
improving support services.
4. Baluchistan Agricultural   To strengthen T&V system in four districts of   1985  Closed in June
Extension & Adaptive        Baluchistan province to achieve increases in          1992
Research Ill Project (Cr.   sustainable agricultural production and
1533-PAK)                   widespread adoption of improved farming
practices.
5. Punjab and Sindh         To achieve sustained increases in agricultural   1987  Closed in June
Agriculture Extension and   production in Punjab and Sindh Provinces              1994
Adaptive Research Project    through strengthening of agricultural
(Cr. 1762-PAK)              extension and adaptive research activities not
covered in the Phase I provincial projects
above.
Following operations
NIL'
" During 1997-98 consideration has been given to the preparation of two follow-up projects, Agricultural Support
Services F'roject (ASSP) and Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP) which would further support research
development in Pakistan. Subsequently, the preparation of ASSP has been discontinued while ASIP is now in an
advanced stage of preparation.



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned                   Date actuaUl
latest estimate
Identification                                                     February 1986
Preparation                              April 1986                9 March-9 April 1987, September
1987, December 1987 "
Appraisal                                28 Sept. 1986             9 Oct.-7 Nov. 1988, 12-16
February 1989 and 11 -26 May
1989 2/
Negotiations                             27 March 1989              12-17 April 1990
Board presentation                       18 May 1989               12 June 1990
Signing                                  June 1989                 27 July 1990
Effectiveness                            29 October 1990           2 August 1991
Midterm review (if applicable)           31 January 1994           4-26 February 1995
Project completion                       30 June 1997              30 June 1997
Loan closing                             30 June 1998              30 June 1998
Footnotes
"GOP identified and prepared project with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and the ISNAR.
' Appraisal missions by IBRD.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions) 1/
FY91     FY92       FY93       FY94      FY95       FY96      FY97      FY98
Appraisal          4.00       7.00     14.00      25.00      37.00    46.00      53.00     57.30
estimate
Actual               -        2.1(0    4.42        7.32      15.45    24.11      32.20     40.12
Actual as %  of     0.0      30.0     31.6        29.3       41.8     52.4       60.8       70.0
estimate
Date of final    October 31. 1998
disbursement
"The project financing plan and disbursement schedule in the SAR is given in US Dollars, not SDRs.
Comment: Closing date for disbursement given at June 30, 1998. The Bank allowed disbursements to continue until
October 31, 1998. The remaining Credit of SDR12.330 million has been cancelled. Appraisal estimate used an exchange
rate of SDRI .0 = US$1.29 while actual estimates are based on historic exchange rates.



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation 1/
1.'  Key implementation                             Appraisal      Actual       Actual
indlicators in SAR/               Unit          Estimate                 Completed      Percent
President's Report                                                                    Completed
1. Overseas Long-term Training
Ph.D.                              No.               113        122             44 2'       36
M.Sc./M.Phil.                      No.               32          47             35 D        74
2. Short-term training
Overseas                      Person months         462          462         427.5           93
Local                         Person months        1572         1572         1085            69
3. Incremental Staff
No.               435         435           312           72
4. Technical Assistance
International                Person months          454         454         513            113
Local                        Person months          126         126         209.5          166
" Key indicators were not set in SAR for project implementation, but some of the more readily identifiable physical
targets are assessed.
v Seven students failed and returned and one deceased
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(This table is not applicable to this project)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                      at appraisal/redefined              Status       Impact of study
1. Diagnostic        To introduce a farming systems perspective into    A number    Provided basic data
Surveys in all       research planning and programming, promote on-  of surveys    and information for
Provinces            farm research and improve research/extension  completed    preparation of
linkages the project supported multidisciplinary    in all  Provincial
teams of research and extension staff to      provinces     Research Master
undertake diagnostic surveys within each                    Plans
province's various agroecological zones



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)              Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item                        Local        Foreign       Total         Local        Foreign       Total
costs        costs                      costs          costs
1. PARC                           4.5.3        5.3           9.8    10.848          12.892      23.740
2. Punlab                         6.2           8.8         15.0      4.351          5.179       9.530
3. Sindh                          4.1           7.4         11.5      5.539          5.206      10.745
4. Baluchistan                    1.6           4.2          5.8      1.595          3.475       5.070
5. North West Frontier            2.0           5.0          7.0      1.989         3.950        5.939
6. Federal  Support to            5.4           5.5         10.9
Provinces
7. Ag. Univ. Faisalabad           0.7           2.5          3.2
8. Sindh Ag. Univ.                0.3           2.8          3.1
Baseline Costs                 24.8          41.5         66.3
Physical Contingencies            0.8           3.6          4.4
Price Contingencies               4.5           6.7         11.2
TOTAL                           30.1          51.8         81.9      24.322       30.701       55.023
Comments:
1. Costs are estimated on the basis of average historic annual exchange rates between Rupee and Dollar.
2. Estimated actual expenditure under items 6, 7 and 8 have not been separated and are included in total expenditures by
PARC. Moneys for operation of university programs were given directly to universities, but payment for technical
assistance, short- and long-term training and equipment for universities was paid directly by PARC.
3. Total estimated project costs includes US$6.9 million taxes and duties, but actual taxes and duties not available.
4. Estimated actual total project cost in Rupee terms as of October 31, 1998, was Rs1,925 million or 109% of the
appraisal estimate of Rsl,770 million. Due to devaluation of the Pakistan Rupee against the US Dollar the estimated
actual project cost was US$55.023 million or 67% of the appraisal cost estimates of US$81.937 million.



22
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual/latest estimate (US$M) "
Source                         Local      Foreign     Total        Local       Foreign       Total
costs      costs                    costs        costs
IDA                               5.5       51.8        57.3        11.114     30.701      41.815
Govt. of Pakistan                11.0         -         11.0         5.450      0.0         5.450
GOPunjab                          5.4         -          5.4         2.577      0.0         2.577
GOSindh                           4.3         -          4.3         2.567      0.0         2.567
GOBaluchistan                     1.8         -          1.8         1.143      0.0          1.143
GONWFP                            2.1         -          2.1         1.471      0.0          1.471
LTOTA                           30.1        51.8        81.9        24.322     30.701      55.023
" Estimated actual project financing in US$ is at final Credit closure (31 October, 1998).
Comment:  The estimated actual expenditure of the IDA Credit ($41.815 million) is slightly higher than the actual
IDA disbursement (SDR28.070 million equivalent to US$40.123 million) because the estimated expenditure (in Rupees)
of the IDA Credit by the governments of each province and PARC (GOP) is based on estimated average annual
exchange rates (the best data available) between the Rupee and Dollar.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
There was no net present value (or internal economic rate of return) estimated, as such measures are not
required for this type of project.



23
Table 10a: Status of Legal Covenants of Original Agreements
Pakistan
Second Agricultural Research Project
Original   Revised
Covenant Present ftulfillment fulfillment         Description of
Agreement   Section      class    status    date       date                 covenant                      Comments
DCA Prov.   3.01 (a)      5        CP      Undated             Commitment to the project objectives  Chronic delays in meeting
2.01(a&b)                                          and performance of all obligations in  key covenants and remedial
accordance with the provisions of PAs measures threatened on
number of occasions
DCA Prov.   4.01 (b)      4        CD     31/12/92             Project accounts audited and audit    Audit reports submitted with
3.01 (iii)                                        reports submitted to IDA annually    delay
DCA Prov.   4.02 (a)      4        CD     Undated              Adequate capital and operational   Commonly a shortfall of
3.01 (a)                                         funds                              funds for PARC, Punjab and
Sindh
PARC       2.04 (b)     5        CP     Undated              Inform Association of conditions   Punjab Board and Sindh
interfering with progress of Parts Al,  Agricultural Research
B I, B3, C and D                  Organization not operational
and staffing situation
unsatisfactory
PARC  Prov. Sched. 1.       5       CD      30/12/90    31/3/93   Employment of consultants by PARC  Fulfilled
Section 11                                        and other implementing entities
(a&b)
PARC       Sched. 2.    5         C     30/12/90   21/08/91  Reorganize Planning Directorates   Fulfilled
para. 3
PARC       Sched. 2,    5        CD     30/11/90   31/05/91  Define national research priorities and Fulfilled
para. 4                                          establish guidelines for allocating
resources
PARC       Sched. 2,    5        CD     30/12/90   31/03/93  Enter into arrangements for making    Fulfilled
para. 5                                          funds available to AUF and SAU
PARC       Sched. 2.    5        CD     30/06/91   31/03/93  Cause AUF and SAU to enter into    Fulfilled
para. 5                                          twinning arrangements with
Universities
PARC       Sched.2,     5        CD     30/11/91   31/03/93  Annual review                      Fulfilled
para. 7 (a)
(ii)
Prov.     Sched. 2,     5       CD      30/11/91   31/03/93  Annual review                     Fulfilled
para. 5
PARC       Sched.2,     5        CD     31/01/94   15/12/94  Mid-term review of the project     Fulfilled
para. 7 (a)                                        progress
(ii)
PARC       Sched. 2.    5        CD     30/06/93             Terms of reference (TOR) for mid-    Fulfilled
para. 7 (b)                                       term review (MTR) to be fumished to
IDA
PARC       Sched. 2     5         C     28/02/91     Every   Progress report                   OK
para. 8                     and every  semester
semester   starting
28/02/92
Prov.     Sched. 2      5        C      28/02/91    Every   Progress report                    OK
para. 6                     and every  semester
semester   starting
28/02/92



24
Original    Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment          Description of
Agreement   Section      class    status    date       date                 covenant                      Comments
Prov.      Sched.       I        C      Undated              Open and maintain in dollars special  Fulfilled
2.01 (c)                                          accounts
Prov.     Sched.2,      5       CD      30/06/91   30/06/93  Overall responsibility in Sindh be  SARO established but
para. I (a)                                       exercised by SARO                  structure presents serious
(ii)                                                                              weaknesses
Prov.     Sched.2.      5       NC      30/06/91   30/06/93  Overall responsibility in Punjab be    PARB not fully functional
para. 7 (a)                                       exercised by PARB
(i)
Prov.     Sched. 2,     5       CD      30/06/91   30/06/93  Overall responsibility in NWFP be    Fulfilled, but structure
para. 7 (a)                                       exercised by AUP                   presents serious weaknesses
(iii)
Prov.     Sched.2,      5       CD      30/06/91   30/06/93  Overall responsibility in Baluchistan   Fulfilled
para. I (a)                                        be exercised by BARB
(iv)
Prov.     Sched.2.      5       CD      31/12/90   31/12/92  MSUs will be established
para. 7 (h)
Prov.     Sched.2,      5        C      31/10/90   31/10/91  Workling parties
para. 3 (a)
Prov.     Sched.2,      9       CD      31/08/92             Fumish PRMPs to IDA for review and
para. 3                                          concurrence
(b&c)
Prov.     Sched. 2.     9       CD      31/03/93             Fumish to IDA updated PRMPs every
para. 3 (d)                                        year
Prov.     Sched.2.      5       NC      30/06/91   31/12/93  Punjab and Baluchistan will modifyl
para. 4                                          Public Service regulations
Status:        C:            Covenant complied with
CD:           Compliance after delay
NC:           Not complied with
SOON:        Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP:           Complied with partially
NYD:         Not yet due
Covenant Class:    I         Accounts/audit
2        Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3        Flow and utilization of project funds
4        Counterpart funding
5        Management aspects of Project or of its executing agency
6        Environmental covenants
7        Involuntary resettlement
8        Indigenous people
9        Monitoring, review and reporting
10       Implementation
11       Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12       Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action



25
Table lOb: Status of Legal Covenants of Amended Agreements
Pakistan
Second Agricultural Research Project
Original    Revised
Coven  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment        Description of
Agreement   Section    -ant   status     date       date                 covenant                      Comments
type
DCA Prov. 4.01 (b) (ii);   F    PART   31/12 each           Fumish to IDA audit reports        Audit reports fumished but
3.01 (b) (iii)                year                                                  often delayed
DCA Prov.  4.02 (a);    F    PART                           Adequate capital and operational funds  Frequent shortfall of
3.01 (a)                                                                          operational funds and funds to
pay taxes for procurement
PARC      2.04 (b)    T     PART                          Inform Association of conditions   PARCs autonomy diluted by
interfering with progress of Parts Al,   abolishing ARD; it lacks
B I, B3, C and D                  authority to interact with
Provinces
PARC      Sched. It,    r    PART    30/11/90      not    Detine national research priorities and   NMARP completed after
para. 4                              formally  establish guidelines for allocating  considerable delay
advised  resources
PARC      Sched. ll.    T    OK                 31/12/95  PARC shall submitto IDA forapproval
para. 6                                        the procedures for using the
Competitive Grant System
PARC      Sched. lI,    T    PART               30/09/95  PARC shall submit a satisfactory   Plan submitted but not
para. 7                                        stafling plan and implement it thereafter implemented satisfactorily
PARC;    Sched. 11,    M     RVS    28/02/91               PARC/Provinces shall submit semestral Irregular and untimely.
Prov. PA  para. 9 (rev);                                   progress reports to IDA
Sched. ll,
para. 6
Prov.     3.02 (a)    M     PART                          Delegate to AUP, SARO, PARB, and   SARO and PARB not been
BARB the necessary authority to   delegated with required
establish their own rules         authority
Prov.    Sched. 11.    M    PART                          Establishment and operation of SARO, Institutions established late in
Part A, para.                                    PARB and BARB for integrated       project, but not operating as
2                                            research planning and resource    envisaged
allocation
Prov.    Sched. ll.    M    PART                30/09/95  Punjab shall establish PARB as an  Subsequently reattached to
para. 2 (a)                                     autonomous body attached to P&D    Agricultural Department
(i)                                          Dept.
Prov.    Sched. ll.    M    PART                31/12/95  Punjab shall empower PARB as an   Subsequently reattached to
para. 2 (a)                                     autonomous body attached to P&D    Agricultural Department
(i)                                          Dept.
Prov.    Sched. ll.    M    PART                30/09/95  Sindh shall amend notification of SARO Notification issued but fell
para. 2 (b)                                     to restructure its composition and  short of the covenant's
establish its rules of business   requirement for SARO to carry
out its objectives
independently
Prov.    Sched. ll.    M    PART                31/12/95  Baluchistan shall amend notification of New rules of business
para. 2 (c)                                     BARB to include Rules and Functions  promulgated but research in
forestry and fisheries has not
been included
Prov.    Sched. ll    M     PART                31/12/95  NWFP shall submit to IDA a time   Merger never achieved
para. 2 (d)                                     bound plan to address institutional
issues regarding the merger of research
into AUP



26
Original    Revised
Coven  Present  fulfiilment  fulfillment        Description of
Agreement   Section    -ant   status    date       date                 covenant                      Comments
type
Prov.    Sched. ll,    M    OK                 31/12/95  Provinces shall submit to IDA for
para. 4 (b)                                     approval the procedure for using the
Competitive Grant System
Prov.    Sched. ll.    M   PART                31/12/95  Punjab and Baluchistan will modify  Baluchistancompliedalthough
para. 6                                       service rules for scientific staff to  rules for scientists in Livestock
provide flexibility and agility in  not properly modified; Punjab
recruitment and promotion        yet to comply
Status:       OK:           Covenant complied with
PART:        Partial compliance
SOON:        Compliance expected in reasonably short time
NYD:         Not yet due
ACT:         Needs use of formal remedies to bring about compliance
RVS:         Needs to be revised
Covenant Class:    I        Accounts/audit
2        Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3        Flow and utilization of project funds
4        Counterpart funding
5        Management aspects of Project or of its executing agency
6        Environmental covenants
7        Involuntary resettlement
8        Indigenous people
9        Monitoring, review and reporting
10      Implementation
11       Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12       Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Compliance with all OMs.



27
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planned                  Revised                 Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$         Weeks      US$'000      Weeks    US$O000
Preparation to             n.a.        n.a.          n.a.       n.a.       118.0      91.3
appraisal                                        .
Appraisal                  n.a.        n.a.          n.a.       n.a.        82.0     155.0
Negotiations through       n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       n.a.        14.3       13.5
Board approval
Supervision                n.a.         n.a.       167.35     425.84       187.5     380.4
Completion
TOTAL                                             417.4      893.3        401.8     640.2
Comments:
I. Data from WB MIS: staff weeks given includes all associated staff inputs (in Bank as well as field) as at June 2,
1998.
2. Planned staff weeks and costs only available from FY 1996.



28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of                      Number                     Specialized      Implement-      Develop-
project cycle       MonW           of                       staff skills       ation          ment         Types of
e             Mycar       persons       field      represented        status 2'     objectives     problems v
Through appraisal                                             n.a.                  n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Appraisal through                                             n.a.                  n.a.           n.a.           n.a.
Board approval
Supervision I          Nov.-Dec.        1           21        EC                     2              1              M
1990
Supervision 2          Oct.-Nov.        2           19        A (2)                  2              1              M
1991
Supervision 3          July 1992       2            26        A (2)                  3              3            F, M
Supervision 4          Jan.-Feb.        2           20        A (2)                  3              3            F. M
1993
Supervision 5          Sept. 1993       1           15        A                      3              3              M
Supervision 6          Jan.-Feb.       2            22        A (2)                 3               3             M
1994
Mid-term Review        Feb. 1995       441          23        A (2). RIS (2)        5               U             M
Supervision 7          Oct. 1995       2            23        A. RIS                S               U             M
Supervision 8          May-June         4           25        A (2). EC. FS         S               U             M
1996
Supervision 9/in-depth   April 1997     5           22        A (3). EC. RIS        S              S 6e           M
review
Supervision 10         Oct. -           3           18        A(3)                  S              S 6             M
Nov. 1997
Supervision II and     June 1998       4 51                   A (3). RIS            U               U              M
Completion                                                  .
A  =- Agriculturist;  EC = Agricultural Economist;  RIS = Research Institutions Specialist;  FS = Financial
Specialist
2/   Summary objectives ratings: I (HS) - highly satisfactory; 2 (S) - satisfactory; 3 (U) - unsatisfactory; 4 (HU) -
highly unsatisfactory
' T= Technical; F = Financial; M = Managerial/Institutional
4/   Two additional representatives of GOP also participated in Mid-Term Review
5'  Two representatives from  FAO/CP
6/   Rated marginally satisfactory



Appendix I
Page I of 12
PAKISTAN: Agricultural Research II Project
(Credit 2154-PAK)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme ICR Mission
9-27 June 1998
Appendix 1: Mission Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
I.         At the request of the World Bank (WB), an FAO/CP Mission' visited Pakistan from 9-27
June 1998 to meet with officials of the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council (PARC) and the Project
Management Unit (PMU), the government research services in North West Frontier, Baluchistan, Sindh
and Punjab provinces and Agricultural Universities in Sindh and Punjab provinces to obtain relevant
information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for this project. Field
visits were made to the main research institutions/centres in each province to discuss with scientists the
research assistance and impact under the Agricultural Research 11 Project (ARP 11). The mission
overlapped with the WB supervision mission2 during its last week.
2.         The mission wishes to thank all staff of PARC, the PMU, the provincial departments of
agriculture and the institutes/centres visited for giving generously of their time, information and
assistance with the meetings, field visits and preparation of the ICR for this project. The preliminary
findings and views presented in this Aide-Memoire reflect those of the FAO/WB missions, based on
discussions held with federal and provincial staff of departments/centres/institutes visited and from prior
consultation of project documents at World Bank. The Aide-Memoire has been amended, to take into
account points raised in a final wrap-up meeting, held under the chairmanship of the chairman of PARC
on June 27, 1998.
B. BACKGROUND
3.         The Government of Pakistan (GOP) requested assistance from  the International
Development Association (IDA) to further develop and strengthen its agricultural research services
following prior support (first Agricultural Research Project; Cr 1158-PAK) to strengthen the federal
research system to enable it guide and co-ordinate research throughout Pakistan. The second Agricultural
Research Project (ARP 11) was mainly directed towards upgrading provincial research services as well as
providing some further strategic support to PARC.
C. THE PROJECT
4.         The project was prepared during 1987 by the FAO/IC, assisted by the International Service
for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and appraised by the World Bank during 1988 and follow-
up missions in February and May 1989. The eight-year project was approved on July 27, 1990 with
credit effectiveness set for October 29, 1990 and project closure scheduled for June 30, 1998. Project
effectiveness was delayed, however, until August 2, 1991 due to delays in the GOP fulfilling the
' D.A.lvory (Mission Leader) and P. J. Smith (Institutions Management Specialist, Consultant)
2 1. Serejski (Task Leader) and Rashed ul Qayyum (Agriculturist)



Appendix I
Page 2 of 12
conditions for credit effectiveness. A mid-term review (MTR) of the project was held in February, 1995,
one year later than scheduled.
5.         The project's main objectives were to: (i) improve and strengthen research capabilities in
the provinces, (ii) consolidate and complement the advances achieved under ARP I at the federal level,
that is with PARC and NARC, (iii) support high priority research programmes at the provincial and
federal level, and (iv) improve and strengthen research/extension linkages. The Development Credit
Agreement and Project Agreement were revised twice: firstly, by the Association's letter of April 28,
1993 and secondly, following the MTR in July 1995. The main thrusts to achieve the revised objectives
were to be through: assistance for the provinces to (i) reorganise their research systems through the
establishment of a basic institutional framework within which a better research programme may be
developed, and (ii) improve research planning, resource allocation, monitoring and evaluation, and
assistance for identified priority research programmes. In particular, upgrading research programmes in
horticulture, livestock, soil science, integrated pest management, and social sciences, and funds to
support aidditional provincial priority research identified during the preparation of Provincial Research
Master Plans (PRMPs). One-third of these funds were to be used following the Competitive Grants
System (para. 20).
D. MISSION FINDINGS
Project Implementation
Physical Resource Development
6.         Staffing. Some 434 additional staff were proposed to be recruited for the Management
Support Units established under the project, as well as additional scientific staff. While the allocated
positions were filled in NWFP and Baluchistan, many positions remained vacant in PARC (61%
vacant), Punjab (47%) and Sindh (9%). Many of the proposed incremental staff have, in fact, been
transferred from elsewhere in the system, often without replacement. There appear to be no
permanent staff of the provincial agricultural research boards, as staff are reluctant to be permanently
assigned to these bodies because of concerns over job security and pension rights. The appointment of
key project staff was delayed by the procedures required to provide local budget for them, which, in
turn, was delayed by the late approval of the PC-I.
7.         Civil works. A limited amount of construction of new facilities was proposed under the
project. Facilities constructed included administrative buildings, library and seminar halls, green and
shade houses in Sindh province, an administrative block (not completed due to contractor dispute)
and shacde house in Baluchistan province. No facilities were proposed in NWFP and in Punjab
province the proposed administrative building was not started because of a land dispute. Within
PARC, rnajor infrastructure development was envisaged. A new crop science building for the Plant
Science Division of NARC was constructed and facilities at other distant locations were
upgraded/expanded, including the Northern Areas Research Centre at Jagalot and Mountain Research
Centre at Kaghan. A new laboratory and ancillary space area for six programmes (animal health
research, fisheries and aquaculture research, range and environment research, farming systems
research, technology transfer and seed sciences and technology) was also completed. Houses have
also been constructed. All have been completed except at Gilgit which is expected to be finished by
the end of June 1998.



Appendix I
Page 3 of 12
8.         Equipment and vehicles. Vehicles were purchased by all provincial governments and
PARC to improve mobility of administrative and research staff. While in some provinces such as NWFP
and Baluchistan these were purchased early in the project in others, such as Punjab, many vehicles were
only purchased towards the end of the project. Some strategic equipment was purchased for laboratories
in all provinces and for PARC. Most equipment purchased was for assisting soils research (soil physics
and soil chemistry), horticultural and livestock research. Considerable delays occurred in the purchase of
all equipment requiring International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Much less equipment has been
purchased than originally proposed and at present there is a large consignment of equipment under ICB
that will not be paid for and received before Credit closure.
Human Resource Development
9.         Long-term training. Major emphasis has been given to human resource development. The
original proposal was to provide 107 Ph.D. and 31 M.Sc./M.Phil. fellowships for long-term training for
staff of research institutes/centres and universities in selected disciplines, based on an identified needs
assessment at the time of project preparation. All Ph.D. and MSc./M.Phil. fellowships were undertaken at
overseas universities. It was proposed that PARC and the provinces would identify the first group of
trainees by March 31, 1991 and that all long-term training fellowships would be taken up by June 1994.
Placement of all fellowships was considerably delayed. Fellowship targets were greatly exceeded,
particularly by PARC, with a total of 138 Ph.D. and 52 M.Sc./M.Phil. fellows placed overseas. The last
fellowships were only approved and placed overseas late in 1995, which meant that while 77% of
M.Sc./M.Phil. candidates have returned, only 19% of the Ph.D. candidates have returned. Some eight
candidates dropped out for various reasons. The major problem, with the exception of NWFP, with this
programme was that the responsibility for placement was assigned to the TA contractors. Thus the
delay in establishing the core staff of the Provincial segments of the project and recruitment of the TA
(para. 11), inevitably caused problems. Except in the case of Baluchistan, where there was limited
local experience in overseas student placement, it is not clear why NARC, Sindh and Punjab decided
to assign this responsibility to the TA contractors. The WB has approved the provision and allocation
of sufficient funds with the relevant TA contractors to finance the completion of the outstanding
period of unreturned fellows.
Institution/Province         Ph.D. programme                    MSc/M.Phil.
Original    Sent abroad   Returned a/  Original    Sent abroad   Returned
a/
PARC/NARC/AZRI        25          44          39          6          13           8
Punjab                20          20           0          6          16          15
Sindh                 23          23           4          6           6           2
NWFP                  17          17           0          5           5           2
Baluchistan           15          18           0          8           8           8
AUF, Punjab            1           6           1          0           0           0
SAU, Sindh             6          11           1          0           2           2
Grand Total          107         139          45         31          50          37
a/ Includes seven students that failed and one student deceased



Appendix I
Page 4 of 12
10.        Short-term  training. An extensive programme of both overseas and local short-term
training was also provided. It was proposed that a total of 510 months of overseas and 1,656 months of
local training would be provided for both scientific/technical and managerial staff to meet critical training
needs in horticulture, livestock, soil science, IPM and social science and for research management and
organisation. The short-term training programme was less than proposed, particularly local training with
a total of 189 awards, 134 for overseas and 55 for local training. There has been no assessment of the
value of this short-term training. Some local training funds were used for attendance at local seminars,
workshops and conferences.
Technical Assistance
It.       Technical assistance (TA) was seen as essential for planning and implementation of parts
of the project. Some 580 months of technical assistance was proposed, 454 months for expatriate
assistance and 126 months for local consultants. Recruitment of TA was, however, delayed by more
than two years due to extremely slow processing of the TA bidding and contractual arrangements.
This caused two major problems. Firstly, the long-term training programme was delayed by more
than two years and secondly, the Provincial Research Master Plans (PRMPs) were completed more
than three years after the original scheduled completion date. However, once started, the TA input has
generally been appropriate and well-appreciated by those closely involved with the consultants,
except in Baluchistan where seemingly some aspects of the performance of consultants was criticised.
Many valuable reports were produced by the consultants, but relatively few of the recommendations
to improve research management systems, research programmes and research methodologies and
practices have been implemented or followed up. Except for very specific scientific inputs, longer
inputs by fewer consultants would be more useful.
Support to Agricultural Universities
12.       Twinning agreements were signed between the Sindh Agricultural University (SAU) and
the University of Minnesota (UM), U.S.A. and the Agricultural University, Faisalabad (AUF) with
the University of New England (UNE), Australia to strengthen the two agricultural universities
through both long- and short-term training and through technical assistance provided by staff of
overseas universities on short-term visits to the host universities. Both twinning agreements were
delayed by more than two years due to prolonged selection process and contractual disagreements.
SAU experienced problems with equipment procurement, some visa arrangements and use of some
more junior faculty staff of UM than originally proposed because of serious delays in initiation of the
twinning, agreement. Despite this the project provided strong support in strengthening the social
sciences and veterinary sciences particularly. The twinning agreement of AUF with UNE was very
satisfactory resulting in considerable strengthening of the social sciences particularly. Some
difficulties with equipment procurement were also experienced.
Institutional Reorganisation
13.        A major objective of the project was to establish autonomous apex research bodies in
Sindh, Punjab and Baluchistan provinces to manage research in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and
forestry. Different institutional arrangements were foreshadowed in each province.
14.        North West Frontier Province. In NWFP the project objective was to maintain the
existing institutional relationship where the Government of NWFP had transferred responsibility for crop
and livestock research from the Department of Agriculture to the Agricultural University, Peshawar



Appendix I
Page 5 of 12
(AUP) in the late 1980s as assisted under the USAID-financed Transformation and Integration of
Provincial Agricultural Network Project (TIPAN). Project implementation was therefore the
responsibility of the vice-chancellor's office of the University, who through a Director General of
research, had responsibility for managing research in research institutes/centres and stations in agriculture
and livestock production, but not animal health, fisheries and forestry. The revised Project Agreement of
July 1995 provided for the submission of a time-bound action plan to address key institutional issues
identified during the MTR and regarding the merger of AUP and agricultural research. A draft plan was
prepared but never implemented.
15.        Baluchistan Province. In Baluchistan province the project supported the establishment of
the Baluchistan Agricultural Research Board (BARB) which was proposed as an autonomous body to
control research resource allocation in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. While BARB was
finally established and new rules of business promulgated, research in forestry and fisheries has not been
established and part of horticulture research is outside the control of the Department of Agriculture.
16.        Sindh Province. In Sindh province the project aimed to support the establishment of a
semi-autonomous research organisation, to be called the Sindh Agricultural Research Organisation
(SARO) which would merge the research activities of the Sindh Department of Agriculture (crops,
livestock and fisheries). SARO was established after considerable delay but with little commitment to
such a body and when combined with a number of institutional changes that have separated agriculture,
livestock and fisheries and forestry into separate ministries, has never been a significant entity. Its
continued existence must be unlikely after Credit closure.
17.       Punjab Province. In Punjab province, the project supported the establishment of the
Punjab Agricultural Research Board (PARB) which was proposed as an autonomous body to control
research resource allocation in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. Although PARB and its
Executive Committee was established under notification in December 1991, with further notifications to
give autonomous status and attachment to the Planning & Development Department in November 1995,
the establishment of PARB under a govemment ordinance was delayed until September 1996.
Subsequently, the PARB ordinance was re-issued every three months until the passage of the Punjab
Agricultural Research Board Act of October 24, 1997. Recently the PARB has been re-attached to the
Agriculture Department and the composition of PARB, comprising representatives from amongst the
members of the provincial assembly, PARC, the agricultural university, progressive farmers and
agribusiness, has been notified recently. The rules and regulations of business have yet to be changed
to improve the working conditions of scientists. PARB presently is responsible for agriculture,
livestock, fisheries and forestry research.
Research Programme Development
18.        Research master plans. All provinces finally completed PRMPs after delays of three to
four years. The plans were based on informnation obtained from diagnostic studies and intemal reviews
and discussions and had significant assistance from the intemational TA in finalising their
documentation. The PRMPs produced are very comprehensive and generally achieved the objectives of
determining priority programmes and projects for research, manpower requirements, training needs,
facilities, equipment and budget requirements for operations and maintenance and capital and recurrent
requirements for a five-year period with an additional indicative five years for each province. The
PRMPs are providing important resource documents for planning the development of provincial research
systems, but have not been updated as originally intended since completion. The inclusion of activity
timetables for development of the research systems in future revisions would provide greater assistance



Appendix I
Page 6 of 12
to planning units. The National Master Agricultural Research Plan (NMARP) was prepared
simultaneously and the information contained in the PRMPs was consolidated into an input to the
NMARP.
19.       Priority research programmes. A major objective of the project was to orient the
research systems to support research that was only of high priority. Some high priority research
programrnes were identified at appraisal, other additional priority research programmes were to be
identifiedl during the PRMP preparation process. This was a major objective of the development of
PRMPs. But because of the delays in preparing the PRMPs, support for additional research
programrnes was only provided during the last two years of the project. Thus two groups of high
priority research programes were supported, but overall, the provisional budget support for this
activity was greatly under-utilised.
20.       Competitive Grants System (CGS). CGSs were established in all four provinces, as a
recommendation of the mid-term project review. Guidelines were established to set up a system of
advertising, submission and selection of proposals, which would be open to all research agencies
(both public and private) and universities, to be considered for funding of high priority research.
While fully functional CGSs were set up in NWFP, Balochostan and Punjab provinces, in Sindh
province, although proposals were received and selections of research projects made, no contracted
research wvas with the applicants. Because of the relatively short time available for implementation of
the CGS within the remaining project period, this was considered a pilot scheme and guarantees were
obtained from the provinces that they would continue to fund these contracted projects beyond Credit
closure. Support for the approved projects and the programme may be provided for in PARC, Punjab,
Baluchistan and NWF provinces under the proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP).
The continuation of CGS programmes is, however, problematic in Sindh province, which has not
submittedl proposals for funding under ASIP.
Research Management Support
21.       Management Support Units (MSUs). After significant delays, MSUs were established
in each province to advise on and assist with research planning, resource allocation, programming,
monitoring and internal evaluation. In Sindh province the MSU was established as a secretariat of
SARO. In NWFP the MSU was attached to the office of the AUP's Director General of Research and
as a secretariat for the AUP's Research Coordination Board. In Punjab and Baluchistan provinces,
MSUs were established and functioned as secretariats for PARB and BARB, respectively. In addition,
in Punjab smaller MSUs were also established for the Director General's of Agricultural and
Livestock Research. In service training was provided for staff of the MSUs as part of the international
technical assistance to develop systems and skills for planning and project budgeting, establish
functional management information systems and monitoring and evaluation procedures. The skills
and systems functionality achieved seems variable, with some MSUs seemingly unable to operate the
systems piloted/established.
22.       Management Information Systems (MIS). The ISNAR INFORM methodologies have
been introduced in most provinces, using database software, as well as the introduction of spreadsheet
software for preparation of budgets, with support of the overseas technical assistance provided. It
seems in many cases, however, that fully functional systems have not been realised where the relevant
sections of the MSUs of the management bodies established under the project use such systems
routinely for planning and management purposes.



Appendix I
Page 7 of 12
23.       Monitoring and evaluation (M&E).  The provisions provided for assistance in
establishing M&E systems in provincial management units were adequate, and fairly fully
implemented with TA support. The systems established focus on the flow of core technical activities
of the project: planning and conduct of research, etc. However, no provision was made for installation
and training of a CPM-based project management system, to give staff the means to prioritize and
control the setting-up of project implementation activities (recruitment, contracting TA and training
services, procurement, and administrative processes connected with budget, programme approval,
etc.). These contributed to the delays: initially, project staff were often unable to identify the most
critical tasks for immediate attention, and, later, delays were not identified until they had grown into
major problems.
Research - Extension Linkages
24.       A major objective of the project was to improve and strengthen research-extension
linkages. Extension staff were involved with agricultural research scientisits and social scientists in
the several diagnostic surveys carried out in all provinces to analyse and describe the agro-ecological
and socio-economic conditions that affect farming systems and from which priorities for research
were defined in the PRMPs. The establishment of Adaptive Research Units (ARUs) at Agricultural
Research Institutes in Punjab (Faisalabad), Baluchistan (Sariab), NWFP (Tarnab) and Sindh
(Tandojam) provinces and the strengthening of Agricultural Economic Research Units (AERUs) at
these same locations were envisaged as additional mechanisms to strengthen research-extension
linkages. However, while the ARUs undertook some adaptive research there was little or no
involvement with Subject Matter Specialists and Adaptive Research Farms within the provincial
Agricultural Extension Departments. Linkages between research staff and AERUs also appeared
limited.
Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation
25.       By the end of the project many of the physical targets had been achieved, but all were
severely delayed, thus adversely affecting a significant beneficial impact on research and research
system development within the timeframe of the project. The major achievements were the filling of
all fellowships for long-term overseas training, though with three years delay, the knowledge and skill
transfer that occurred from the TA provided, the improved staff mobility and greater capacity and
effectiveness of research support as a result of acquisition of vehicles and equipment, the preparation
of appropriate guidelines for future research and system development as a consequence of the
production of provincial and national research master plans, and the establishment of a substantial
amount of reasonably well-focused research, following the funding of priority research programmes
and the introduction of the competitive grants fund. It has to be stressed, however, that these
achievements were only obtained towards the end of the project after three to four years of poor
implementation performance. Overall, the project is considered unsatisfactory, as three of the major
project objectives were only partially achieved and the fourth objective of improving and
strengthening research/extension linkages was only minimally achieved. This unsatisfactory outcome
was due to many constraints associated with project design, bureaucratic, political, financial and
managerial factors which occurred during project implementation.
26.       Design. The major institutional innovation of autonomous research bodies for each
province were proposed (and accepted by GOP) without adequate consideration of the complexity of
the change, and without full consultation of all the Government agencies involved at Province level
(e.g. S&GAD, Law Dept) which might have contributed advice and control vital steps of the process.



Appendix I
Page 8 of 12
In at least one province (Punjab), there is a strong feeling that the authorities were pressured into this
change, to which they were not committed. This affected the degree of local ownership of the
proposals, and consequently, the extent to which provincial staff were willing or able to pursue issues
through the necessary administrative processes, and this aggravated the problems listed in the next
section.
27.       Bureaucratic. Many of the decisions involved in implementation are unnecessarily
centralized (e.g., procurement, confirmation of nomination of overseas trainees). Others are subject to
repeated scrutiny of matters already decided (e.g., the issue of actual staffing levels can be, and was,
re-opened during the administrative approval phase of release of funds). At the same time, the
unavoidable problems inherent in the administrative processes were not taken into account in drawing
up the irnplementation plan, or the phasing of the expenditure, with the result that both were over-
ambitious in the early years. Major groups of actions affected by this complex of deficiencies were:
the delayed approval of the umbrella PC-I by the Executive Committee of the National Economic
Council (ECNEC); the establishment of a core of key full-time staff at each provincial centre of the
project; procurement; contracting of TA services; and placement of overseas trainees. In addition, the
existence of multiple levels of control appears to have been the main cause of divergence between the
SAR and the various PC- Is.
28.       Political. The rapid rotation of senior staff has had a very damaging effect on the project,
as it has contributed to lack of follow-through on decisions already taken; it appears to result from the
exercise of personal influence over the placement of preferred staff members, and the pursuit of
attractive postings. This happens at all levels; it breaks continuity and commitment, and dissipates the
effects of training. In many cases, major sections of the agricultural research structure have never
been incorporated into a single unit, or have been moved outside of it, such decisions being taken in a
non-transparent manner. In the case of Sindh, a policy decision has been made to create a new post of
Secretary, Science and Technology, responsible for agricultural research (in the narrow sense,
excludingy livestock, fisheries, etc.) and on-farm water management, although the Mission understands
that this arrangement is now under review. The changed institutional arrangement for PARC has also
had serious adverse effects on its autonomy and functioning as well as the project objective of
consolidaiting and complementing the advances achieved under ARP I at the federal level. Frequent
changes in higher level management are also politically controlled which obviate the stability
required in management of research organisations.
29.       Financial. The release of counterpart funds and utilization of the Credit was greatly
delayed throughout the project. Not only was the amount released much less than the proposed and
allocated budgets, but releases were invariably delayed to the latter part of each financial year. This
has serious implications both in planning support for priority research and undertaking research which
is often seasonal in nature.
30.       Managerial. The top-down, bureaucratic style of management adopted by most senior
managers is inappropriate to a professional service, and it has suppressed internal debate where this
was necessary (in Sindh, for example, project staff were unwilling to raise the issue of the
establishrnent of SARO, because they believed that this would incur the then Secretary's displeasure).
The delay in PC-I approval, combined with the inherent length of the administrative processes
resulted in a late establishment of the core staff of each Provincial centre of the project, and the lack
of any project management tools, allowed priorities to be overlooked, and emerging difficulties to be
ignored; the authoritarian has limited the extent to which project staff have been able to progress-
chase matters which have become stuck at a senior level in many instances. The design, political,



Appendix I
Page 9 of 12
bureaucratic, and management deficiencies of the situation have combined to delay or disrupt all the
main thrusts of the project.
Project Costs and Financing
31.        Project costs. Total project cost at May 1998 is estimated at Rsl,702.399 million (US$49.
306 million) (refer table 6.2), which is 4% below the original estimated project cost of Rsl,769.742
million (US$81.933 million) even with more than a 100% devaluation of the Rupee against the Dollar
during the course of the project, and is 40% below the original estimated project cost in Dollar terms.
Project expenditure was only 6% of the estimated project costs in the first three years of the project.
32.        Credit disbursements. Of the total IDA Credit of SDR44.40 million (US$57.30 million),
SDR26.55 million (US$38.08 million) had been disbursed to the GOP by May 31, 1998. A total of
SDR4.0 million (US$5.16 million) of the Credit has been cancelled. Only 20% of the Credit was
disbursed in the first four years of the project (Refer Table 6.1). The undisbursed'Credit at May 31, 1998
was SDR1 3.85 million (US$14.06 million), which will not be fully disbursed by Credit closure on June
30, 1998, or following processing of outstanding claims up to October 31, 1998, for expenditure incurred
prior to Credit closure.
33.       The funding support proposed under the project was for 59% of the funds to go directly
to the provinces and 41% to PARC. Of the 41% of funds allocated to PARC, 15% was to be used for
strengthening PARC and NARC with a further 26% of funds flowing through PARC to the two
agricultural universities (5% each) and to indirectly strengthen provincial research (16%) through
coordinated research programs, collaborative research, expansion of Agricultural Economic Research
Units and expanding PARC's remote research facilities. In fact, PARC has consumed 54% of the IDA
credit disbursed to Pakistan, with proportionately more (about 8% each) going to the universities than
proposed, but the distribution of funds for PARC/NARC and those earmarked for indirectly
strengthening provincial research not yet determined. While the actual disbursement of IDA Credit to
the provincial governments (46%) was less than proposed, the funding support for NWFP and
Baluchistan was proportionately about the same as proposed, but Sindh province received greater
support while Punjab received lesser support than planned.
Project Benefits
34.        The serious delays in implementation of almost all components of the project have
meant that few benefits have been realised within the periods of Credit disbursement. The major
potential benefit of the project beyond Credit closure is expected to come from the upgrading of
qualifications, skills and knowledge of a significant number of researchers in the provincial research
system. Also, the introduction of the innovative CGS has paved the way for expanding the role of the
private sector, universities and farmers' organisations and for fostering public-private partnerships.
This, together with improved research facilities and improved focus of research on priority areas
should ultimately result in improved technologies and agricultural production. Because of this
situation there has been no attempt by any research institution to assess the impact of its research on
agricultural development. However, results from research in developing new crop varieties, cropping
patterns, crop diversification, IPM procedures for a range of important crops, etc., give positive
indications of the longer term potential benefit from funding priority areas of research. The realisation
of these potential benefits are however conditional on the continued financing of these research
programmes.



Appendix I
Page 10 of 12
Project Sustainability
35.        While the benefits obtained from more knowledgable and skilled staff and improved
research facilities is expected to be sustained, the sustainability of research programmes and the
institutional and managerial improvements achieved is at serious risk. The general financial crisis in
Pakistan will mean that all government departments and agencies will receive restricted budget
allocations for the immediate future years. Some exceptions may occur as optimism has been expressed
in future funding of research in Punjab province. Funding shortages will result in greatly restricted
availability of funds for operational and maintenance expenditures in agricultural research with
consequent adverse effects on the realisation of benefits from project investments in human resource
developrnent, upgrading of research and support facilities and continued implementation of identified
priority research programmes. Overall, the project has failed, though only partially in the case of Punjab
and Baluchistan, to establish the organisational and managerial systems envisaged that were identified as
necessary to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of highly integrated and relevant research in
agriculture, livestock, fisheries and forestry. Progress has been made towards achieving functional
flexibility of the apex bodies established in Punjab and Baluchistan. However, fully functional apex
bodies are not yet in place in these two provinces. In Sindh little progress has been achieved, whilst in
NWFP the project has failed to address the post-merger issues identified during the MTR.
Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
36.       The Bank participated in ten supervision missions as well as conducted the mid-term
review of the project. The suggestions given for improvement in project performance were very
comprehensive and seemed generally well appreciated by the Borrower. However, given the key
importance of institutional changes proposed to the provincial research systems, the Bank should have
been more sensitized early in project implementation to the difficulties arising from limited local
commitment to the establishment of autonomous provincial agricultural research bodies and sought to
undertake an intensive examination of the underlying institutional and political problems, with a view
to finding a mutually-acceptable solution, rather than threatening the suspension of Credit. The Bank
also failed to give sufficient emphasis to project activities that would strengthen research-extension
linkages, given this was a major objective of the project.
Borrower Performance
37.        While project implementation performance improved significantly with time, overall
Borrower performance is considered unsatisfactory. Whilst there may have been unreasonable
expectations in the SAR of implementation progress, given the inherent difficulties of the government
system, rnuch could and should have been done to speed implementation progress. Many covenants of
the Development Credit Agreement were not fulfilled by the Borrower in due time leading to serious
delays. T he very delayed appointment of a project director and establishment of an implementation
support unit in each province was unnecessary and had serious consequential implications to many
other important activities (training programmes, contracting of TA, preparation of master plans, etc.).
Even in the early years of the project, when the financial situation was more favourable, insufficient
local funds were made available and Credit disbursements were very slow. A substantial amount of
project resources have been used for supporting ongoing operational expenses, such as: project staff
are largely transferees from other parts of the relevant Department; a substantial share of the research
financed has been for ongoing experiments and studies rather than new priority research; and in a few



Appendix I
Page II of 12
cases, it was reported that project staff and vehicles had been assigned to other uses outside the
project.
Future Operational Plans
38.         Punjab province has recently organised a workshop on agricultural research with the aim of
restructuring agricultural research in the province. Baluchistan province has established a committee to
examine the further development of their research system in which it is planned to establish a number of
research stations in agro-ecological zones. In NWFP a task force was constituted in 1997 to consider the
future organisational arrangements for agricultural research in the province and although a report was
submitted in June 1997 no further developments have occurred. Most agree that physical resources are
generally adequate and need relatively little strengthening. The continued scarcity of funds for
operations, maintenance and capital development, however, does not seem to have engendered emphasis
on the potential for cost savings through rationalization of the size of the research system or to explore
mechanisms for tapping alternative sources of finances (both public and private).
Lessons Learned
39.        The main lessons that have emerged from the implementation experience of this project are:
(a)  There is a need to consider how far it makes sense to lend (or borrow) for technical
investment projects in a situation in which there are widespread deficiencies in the
Government system, without a parallel effort to address these deficiencies.
(b)  The problems of the Borrower in managing the cashflow problems of its ongoing,
project-related activities in the agricultural sector should be recognized, and the
possibility of loan support for these examined.
(c)   Where technical projects involve substantial institutional change, it is essential that
formulation missions provide the professional expertise required to analyse existing
systems, design new arrangements, and design programmes of change (i) in
collaboration with all the parties involved on Government side, and (ii) using tools
and concepts appropriate to situations in which there is a plurality of objectives and
strategies, and no strong central control.
(d)  Where such change is needed, it is essential to evaluate both of the main options:
(i) structural and procedural measures, and (ii) providing the resources and skills
required to enable units within the existing structure to function better.
(e)  In the interests of providing realistic schedules as standards against which actual
implementation progress can be measured, project formulators should be required
to use CPM-based methods to prepare implementation schedules, and to base
phased expenditure forecasts upon these.
(f)  It should be a requirement (supported with resources and training) that modem
project management techniques be applied to the setting-up phase of projects, i.e.,
the provision of new or improved facilities and assets, whether those be hardware,
improved administrative procedures, or staff with enhanced capability.
(g)  Key technical assistance should be selected before project start-up.



Appendix I
Page 12 of 12
(h)  Key institutional reforms should be in place prior to the project start-up.
(i)   Long-term training programmes can be managed by Project Management Units, as
demonstrated in NWFP, and shouldn't be managed by consultants.
E. FOLLOW-UP
40.        The mission will complete the preparation of the ICR for this project for submission to
World Bank by late July 1998. Final project costs and Credit disbursements will have to be finalised by
the World Bank with assistance of FAO/CP after the four month period for reimbursements following
Credit closure. The GOP must prepare their final assessment of the project according to the guidelines
provided by the mission and submit this to the World Bank by August 31, 1998. The mission Aide-
Memoire will be amended as required, based on discussions in the wrap-up meeting, and will be attached
to the ICR prepared by the mission for submission to the World Bank.



Appendix 2
Page 1 of 6
No. 1(17)IDA-1187.
Nfi M  s                               GOVIERNMENT OF PAITAN
MINISTRY OF FINANCE -AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
(ECONOMIC .AFF.IRS DWIISION)
Tcleg: ECONOMIC
Telex: ECDIV:O05-i3                               Islamabad, the 24th November, 1998
Fax: 9210734 & 9205971
SECTION OFFICER                                                          ab x6B A
Phone No.9206556:                                                            2 5 NOY 1 
Subject:- PAKISTA.N: -Aricultural Research Proiect (Cr.2154-PAKh):          RECEIED
Comments on Draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR'
i)ear \lr. Cx)avvum.
Please refer to vour letter dated November 12. 1998 regarding the above subject.  A
opy of consolidated comments on Implementation Completion Report (ICR) received from
L o Food. .Vriculture & Livestock is forwarded for further processing the case at your end.
With re-zarcls.
Yrours sincerely.
(Sharafat Hussain Niazi'
Mr. Rashed ul QawunL
Agriculture Specialist.
World Bank Resident Missiont
1sdamabid.



Appendix 2
PAKISTAN - Agricultural Research II Project     Page 2 of 6
(Cr. 2154-PAK)
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2: BORROWER'S COMMENTS
A meeting to finalize comments on the subject Implementation
Completion Report(ICR) was held on 26.10.1998 at PARC headquarters,
wherein representatives from federal and all the four provincial
components participated. The meeting was chaired by Dr. Kauser
Abdulla Malik, Chairman, PARC.
2.   The Project Directors/representatives of all the components
reiterated that the project designing and implementation was faced
with the following major obstacles. The participants unanimously
resolved that the following views should be prominently depicted in
the ICR report.
2.1. The project was appraised in 1989, while the World bank
approved the project in July, 1990 and it was physically started in
July, 1993-94. There was a duration gap of five years in the
project: appraisal and physical implementation. The time bound
action plan should also have been prepared/revised.
2.2. The local currency allocation during the first two financial
years 1990-91 and 1991-92 was zero in NWFP, Balochistan and Punjab
while GOP and the Govt. of Sindh made token allocation; which
averaged at less than 1% of the PC-1 allocations. The appointment
of consultants, as per requirement of the World Bank, was also
delayecd. The effective project implementation was five years
insteacl of eight years as originally scheduled; because during
first three years only 6% of the provisions was provided/spent.
The project cost utilization both IDA and local, in-term of US$,
during the first three years was 0,1 and 5% in PARC; 0,6 and 16% in
Sindh; 0,0 and 4% in Punjab; while both in NWFP and Balochistan the
utilization was 0,0 and 3%. Thus implementation of activities was
delayed and shifted to years 4-8.
2.3. It was consensus that the report has highlighted weakness-of
the borrower and its implementation; while the achievements have
been masked; thereby declaring the project un-satisfactory.  This
is.unfair; project should be declared as satisfactory because the
various; component targets in term of civil works, procurement of
--machiner,, equipment, vehicles, technical assistance and-traiaing.
have been fully implemented. In some of the components the targets
were exceeded.   The restructuring of the research system was
included without consultation of sta 6 holders and identification
of repercussions. The inclusion of the restructuring/autonomy, an



Appendix 2
Page 3 of 6
o6ge-old complexity, should have been given indepth thought/study.
The Bank too was relaxed on these conditions till last two years of
th project. In fact the issue should have been analyzed thoroughly,
time schedule fixed, the slippage should have been negotiated with
the  stake  holders.  Similarly  preparation  of  the, National
Agricultural Master Research Plan (NMARP) was delayed till last 2
years and the consultants were busy in placing the students in the
universities abroad; and no attention was given to preparation of
NMARP during the first five. years. This again was due to first
three years slippage of activities.
2.4. The research activities particularly high priority research &
Competitive Grant System (CGS) scheduled to be initiated three
years earlier, could not be undertaken because of initial 3 years
slippage.   The preparation of NMARP was also delayed. Neither
borrower no(' donor gave a second thought to. revise the planned
targets and preparation of the schedule of activities. The credit
disbursement went on as per schedule and was closed in June, 1998.
Irrespective of the above considerations inspite of the strong
need, the project was not extended to overcome the slippages.
-2-.5. The multiple and bureaucratic control of the'projeEctt;0 loss-Of
autonomy by PARC, duality of control in NWFP eroded the autonomy of
research sygtem. The restructuring of research system by the Bank
was never agitated, except in papers, during early phase of the
project.
2.6. Inspite of all the bottlenecks, the research system both at
federal and provincial level was effectively able to support the
existing research system through ARP-II. Significant achievements
particularly research were made, which needs to be depicted more
prominently in the report.
2.7. Inspite of very complicated bureaucratic procurement system
both of the World' Bank and in the provinces, a significant
percentage(70%) of the equipment was procured. There is strong need
of simplifying the procedure for procurement of machinery,
equipment both by the donor and the borrower.
2.8. It was generally felt that technical assistance without
considering utilization strength of the stake holders was built in
the  project.  Although  consultancies  were  implemented' but
utilization of most of the consultancies was not upto the required
standards and most of the reports/recommendations have been shelved
for want of funding. There is a little possibility/hope that these-
recommendations will be implemented; thereby substantial part of
the credit being wasted.



Appendix 2
Page 4 of 6
_2.9. It. was consensus of the program implementation leadership that
the report is unilateral in highlighting weaknesses of the
borroweirs; while strong points including achievements particularly
of the implementing agencies although mentioned but without
effectively highlighting them. Thus the report gives unrealistic
picture of the implementation of the project.
2.10.    We strongly urge that the report should be re-  itten in
the light of above comments of all the implementing    tnors at
federal and provincial level.
.i  .  . i



Appendix 2
(#'nIL7Sub: Pakistan Agricultural Research Project(ARP-11)/CR.2154-PAK/          Page S   of 6
&'     X^/           Draft Implementation Completion Report(ICR) - PARC Comments
The following para-wise comments/corrections are suggested before the
report is finalized:
Title/Para No.
Acronyms: MINFAC be changed to MINFAL
USAID stands for United States Agency for International Development
Table of Contents
Table-6: The title may be changed to "Key Indicators for Project Operation".
Preface
Para 2 line-5: PARC may be inserted before the North West Frontier.
Evaluation Summary
Para-5: The word "unsatisfactory" may be changed to "satisfactory" because the
overall targets in termns of physical progress except restructuring of research
system were achieved. This was consensus of all the participating units.
Para-6 & subsequent: The financial figures for expenditure may be changed in
the light of attached updated expenditure statement.
Para-7(a): The project achievements may be more prominently depicted; the
changing scenario should have been thoroughly discussed and vigorously pursued.
Part-I, Objective-I
Para 6: The purchase of second lot of equipment during the last two years in all
the units including PARC was delayed because of complicated financial bidding
process. The last lines of he paragraph may be amended that "the equipment
could not be ordered/purchased because of complicated financial bidding process
and credit closure date".
Para-7: The figures for PARC M.Sc. and Ph.D. fellows returned may be
changed as follows:
Degree       Sent  Completed   Remaining
Ph.D.        44      39          05
M.Phil       06      03          03
M.Sc.        07      05          02
Total:       57      47           10
Para-7, Last two lines: The hiring of TA was obligatory condition of the
agreement from World Bank and subsequently NWFP Agriculture University,
Peshawar was able to manoeuver exemption. PARC was in much stronger
position to handle TA of their own as well as Provinces. In fact PARC had the
experience of doing it in larger projects of USAID in the past.
Para-9: It was strongly felt that the TA provision in the PC-I was generally
higher and it could not be appropriately utilized; except those who were given
specific research assignments. The wording "TA input has generally been
appreciated" may be deleted.
Para-12: The horticulture research component has now become part of the
BARB. This para may be modified.
End of Para-19: Last sentence conceming delayed and reduced budget allocations
is not correct. In fact in PARC, the budget could not be utilized by coordinating



Appendix 2
Page 6 of 6
units and there was a balance to the end of the year(s). The statement may be
modified.
Para-21: The purchase of over 70 per cent of the machinery, equipment and
vehicles(100 per cent) was made and delivered to the units. About 30 per cent
equipment purchases could not be made mainly because of complicated procedure
for procurement both of the Governmnents and IDA. The price escalation also
would not allow purchase of all the equipment.
Para-23: PARC contracted International Rice Research Institute(IRRI),
Philippines for collaborative research programme between PARC/Provincial
Governments, and a very useful interaction did occur.
Para-24, line two: The word Department of Agriculture may be substituted with
MINFAL.
Para-26: It is pointed out that the last consignment of equipment could not be
ordered due to procedural difficulties both at PARC/ Provinces and World Bank.
The last sentence may be modified accordingly.
Para-27: The figures of training may be revised for PARC as per para-7 above
Objective-4
Para-36: The figures on financial utilization may be revised in the light of
attached updated expenditure statement(s).
Para-39: The project achievements and benefits should be more prominently
highlighted.
Para40: Para concerning performance of the project declaring it unsatisfactory
on the basis of 3 project objectives is not logical. The performance should be
evaluated in terms of achievements, component-wise rather than objective-wise.
The progress in improving research system was the only objective which was not
fully achieved. In fact fourth objective concerning research/extension linkages;
although evaluated in the ICR did not appear in the evaluation mission reports,
plans of implementation and no specitic financial provisions wvere maMe-for this-
objective. Therefore, we strongly dis-agree with the performance evaluation on
the basis of objectives particularly objective-4 outlined because they did not tally
with the outlined project activities/financial provisions. The performance may be
declared satisfactory.
Para-46/47: PARC also need to be mentioned/commented.
Para-52(b & c): The paragraphs may be elaborated particularly on pre-conditions
and project design, schedule of activities with target dates.
It is extremely important that financial provisions for follow-up of the post
project period sustainability of activities is included in the Project Document. A
schedule of post project follow-up is agreed upon by the Implementing Agency
and donors. This has paid a very high dividend in some of the bilateral country
projects.
Table-3: Project completion plan and actual was 30th June, 1998. Similarly loan
closing date was 31st October, 1998.
Table-5: The actual completion figures for training may be revised.
Table-8(a &b): Unit e.g. million etc. may be indicated.



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH 11 PROJECT                                                                                                     U  S _                                  CHINA
MAIN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS
AND AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES                                                                                                ,                 r
RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS:                                                                                     <
R       Parc and jottitftes t\ -Cr,,o.'r.
*       Plnt, soils or forestry                                                                                       ?       Vll 
A      Li-estck -nd fisheries
*       Agriciutr-l ni-ersitfis2
Agro-esologicor boundoriet                                                                                      .0  0<, 3|Mbo l e O,
AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES:                                                                                      f/ NV               /                             f
Indus delta                                                                                                             Os y  ,                              ;
Southern irrigated plain                                                                                    M           /
111 Sandy desort o&b| V
IV      N.rtOrn irrig.tnd plamin l&b)                                                       <                     t         0 -           r,ru0 
v       Ba--i lads                                                                                                      tdrt                                 JAA14MU
VI      Wet mAurtains                                                                                    rO V                                                   AND
VIl     Nathe-n dry monetains                                                                                     r %       d vD                             KASHM IR
VAII    Wete- dry noantos
IX      Dry  ester- plateau                                                                                                                 
X      Salo-n piedmont                                                                                            13
Coral irrigated lands
I-hlsyts in mr a.
A      Natial -apital                                                                                                 M
3PreoAee capitals
Other cities and lawns                                                              _Surerrt d                                              s,
L                   ~~~~~Risat
_..      -...-..-  Proolnee b -ndais                                                >      S                          K         III
I  ._._   Internotional boundories           , -                           {   A        g g                /                  R~IlIbVri,roAr 
>  29        for zon~oeoo-  |/MIhf bd                                               AHORE
/                                         r                       ~~~               ~              ~             ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Vlill  /AVa
,-   A  F G  H A  N  I S T A  N                                                                                      U                 A /                      /
./                                                 /  OUE~~~~~~~~~~~~~1TTIA                                 U olN zP f:/      /  
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\\                    /                             2              '/   |                      /              7   ~~~~~~~~~~~I N D I A
x                      B~~~~~~ A  Z  U  C              /5  T  A                                        
ISLAMIC
REP. OF  IRAN    1
I x
. N   '                    \                              .       / D  -- o s0    100    50    0<0   2<0   300    350 4(0
f                               E          '  k   \\2>   ** ~~~~~~~~~~~~~<,         J          9          50         CO~~I    t  2  50    ZCO         000
As24      R         B    'A   N'              * F A;v/-                                                                                                                ,o>               '2' 
w 0
i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0,0 'rp rs reetrro,rO 4



