Page  1
                                                 CONFORMED COPY
                                         CREDIT NUMBER 2154 PAK
                    PARC Project Agreement
            (Second Agricultural Research Project)
                            between
             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                              and
            PARISTAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
                      Dated July 27, 1990
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2154 PAK
                    PARC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated July 27,  1990,  between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the Association)  and PAKISTAN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (PARC).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-four
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
44,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that PARC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to
PARC; and
     WHEREAS PARC, in consideration of the Association's entering
Page  2
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                           ARTICLE I
                          Definitions
     Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires,  the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                          ARTICLE II
                   Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) PARC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A.1, B.l,  B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural research
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A.l, B.1, B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the Project.
     (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and PARC shall
otherwise agree, PARC shall carry out Parts A.1, B.l, B.3, C and D
(relevant  part) of the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     (c)   PARC shall, for the purposes of Parts A.l, B.l, B.3, C
and D (relevant part) of the Project, open and maintain in dollars
a Special Account in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the PARC Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A.1, B.l, B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PARC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions  (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the PARC Project Agreement
and Parts A.l, B.l, B.3,  C and D (relevant part) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. (a) PARC shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Parts A.l, B.l, B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  PARC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A.l, B.l, B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by
PARC of its obligations under this Agreement.
                          ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of PARC
Page  3
     Section 3.01. PARC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. PARC shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time,  promptly as needed,  make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural research practices.
     Section 3.03. PARC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                          ARTICLE IV
                      Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) PARC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition in respect of Parts A.l, B.l,
B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the Project.
     (b)   PARC shall:
              (i)      have such records and accounts and those
                       for the PARC Special Account for each
                       fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                       appropriate auditing principles
                       consistently applied, by independent
                       auditors acceptable to the Association;
             (ii)      for the purposes of such audit, make
                       available such records and accounts to said
                       auditors, not later than three months after
                       the end of each such year;
            (iii)      furnish to the Association as soon as
                       available, but in any case not later than
                       six months after the end of each such year,
                       the report of such audit by said auditors,
                       of such scope and in such detail as the
                       Association shall have reasonably
                       requested; and
             (iv)      furnish to the Association such other
                       information concerning said records and
                       accounts as well as the audit thereof, as
                       the Association shall from time to time
                       reasonably request.
                           ARTICLE V
                 Effective Date; Termination;
                  Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of PARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
              (i)      the date on which the Development Credit
                       Agreement shall terminate in accordance
                       with its terms; or
             (ii)      the date twenty years after the date of
                       this Agreement.
Page  4
     (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify PARC of this
event.
     Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                          ARTICLE VI
                   Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,  telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 INDEVAS                     440098 (ITT),
                 Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     For PARC:
           Pakistan Agricultural Research Council
           PARC HQs Building, G-5/1
           P.O. Box 1031
           Islamabad Pakistan
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 AGRESCOUNCIL                5604-PK
                 Islamabad
     Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of PARC, or by PARC on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
its Chairman or such other person or persons as the Chairman shall
designate in writing, and the Chairman shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                 By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                        Regional Vice President
                           Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                 PAKISTAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
                 By /s/ M. Afzal
                                      Authorized Representative
                          SCHEDULE 1
             Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
 published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, machinery,
motorcycles and office furniture shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof,  PARC may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, other than for the crop sciences building to be
constructed under Part C.l of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Equipment, machinery, motorcycles and office furniture esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Spare parts and scientific books and journals, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, may be
procured through direct contracting in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
Part E:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and each contract for
equipment, machinery, motorcycles and office furniture estimated to
cost the equivalent of $70,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the PARC
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
the PARC Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the PARC Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist PARC:  (a) in assessing the priorities of
research investments, introducing program budgeting, conducting
priority research programs, instituting a system of monitoring and
evaluating research, and providing training, PARC shall employ
consultants,  not  later  than December  31,  1990;  (b)  in
computerizing soil survey data, PARC shall cause SSIP to employ
consultants, not later than December 31, 1990; and (c) in other
project implementation matters, including design and construction of
buildings, PARC shall employ consultants, as and when needed. The
qualifications,  experience and terms and conditions of employment
of such consultants shall be satisfactory to the Association and
they shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
The Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                    Implementation Program
1.   Project Coordination.  PARC's  overall responsibility for
coordination of day-to-day project activities shall be exercised
through its Project Implementation Unit (PI4). To this end, PIU
shall,  inter alia, liaise with the Provinces and AUP, AUF, and SAU;
prepare PARC's,  and collate  the Provinces', withdrawal
applications; monitor and review progress under the Project; prepare
PARC's, and collate the Provinces', semi-annual progress reports;
and prepare a project completion report. PIU shall be retained as
part of the Planning Directorate to be reorganized within PARC under
Part A.l of the Project.
2.   Project Implementation.  PARC's responsibility for project
implementation shall be assigned, inter alia: (a) to NARC, under
Parts B.l (a), B.l (b) (relevant part), B.l (c) (relevant part), B.l
(d), B.l (e) (relevant part), B.l (f), B.3, C.l and C.2 (b) of the
Project;  (b) to AZRI, under Part B.l (b) (relevant part) of the
Project; (c) to ARINA under Part C.2 (a) of the Project; (d) to
Page  7
SSIP, under Part B.l (c) (relevant part) of the Project; (e) to
PCRWR, under Part B.l (c) (relevant part) of the Project; (f) to
AERUs, under Part B.l (e) (relevant part) of the Project; (g) to
AUF, under Part B.l (e) (relevant part) of the Project; and (h) to
SAU, under Part B.l (e) (relevant part) of the Project. PARC shall
retain direct responsibility for project implementation under Parts
A.l and D (relevant part) of the Project.
3.   Planning Directorate. PARC shall reorganize its Planning
Directorate under Part A.l  of the Project not later than December
31, 1990.
4.   National Research Priorities.  PARC shall, not later than
November 30, 1990, broadly define national research priorities and
establish guidelines for allocating resources to research falling
within such priorities.
5.   University Research. PARC shall:  (a) not later than December
31,  1990,  enter into arrangements,  satisfactory to the
Association, for making funds available to AUF and SAU out of the
proceeds of the Credit for the purposes of Part B.l (e) of the
Project; and (b) not later than June 30, 1991, cause AUF and SAU to
enter into twinning arrangements with overseas universities,
satisfactory  to the Association,  for obtaining technical
assistance needed to strengthen AUF's Faculty of Agricultural
Economy and Rural Sociology and SAU's Faculty of Agricultural Social
Sciences under Part B.l (e) of the Project.
6.   PRMP Preparation.  PARC  shall,  in cooperation with the
Provinces,  ensure that standard techniques are adopted in the
preparation of PRMPs. To that end,  PARC shall arrange regular
meetings with representatives of the Provinces,  at three-month
intervals during the first two years of project implementation, and
less frequently thereafter.
7.   Project Reviews.  (a) PARC shall carry out: (i) jointly with
the Provinces, an annual review of progress under the Project, not
later than November 30 in each of the years 1991 and 1992; and (ii)
with the assistance of the consultants employed pursuant to Section
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the participation of the
Provinces, a mid-term review of progress under the Project, not
later than January 31, 1994, all in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)   PARC shall, not later than June 30, 1993, furnish to the
Association,  for its concurrence,  the terms of reference and
composition of the team to be constituted to carry out the midterm
review referred to in sub-paragraph (a) (ii) above.
     (c)   PARC shall,  after each review referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) above, make such adjustments in the activities to be
carried out under the Project and the related organizational and
operational arrangements as  shall have been agreed with the
Association in light of the conclusions of such review.
8.   Progress Reports.  Pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General
Conditions, PARC shall, not later than sixty (60) days after the end
of each semester,  beginning with the semester ending December 31,
1990,  furnish to the Association progress reports under Parts A.l,
B.l, B.3, C and D (relevant part) of the Project, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association.
