Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2154 PAK
                         Provinces Project Agreement
                   (Second Agricultural Research Project)
                                    among
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                     and
                             PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                                     and
                              PROVINCE OF SIND
                                     and
                        NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                                     and
                           PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
                             Dated July 27, 1990
                                          CREDIT NUMBER 2154 PAK
                   PROVINCES PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT,  dated July  27,  1990,  among INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB,
PROVINCE OF SIND, NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE and PROVINCE OF
BALUCHISTAN, acting by their respective Governors (the Provinces).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-four
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
44,400,000),  on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement,  but only on condition that the
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)  a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the
Provinces; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Provinces, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                           Definitions
      Section 1.01.  Unless  the context otherwise requires,  the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement,  the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)  "DOA" means the Department of Agriculture of a Province;
and
      (b)  "DOL" means the Department of Livestock of a Province.
                             ARTICLE II
                    Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Provinces declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of the Project
with due  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering and
agricultural research practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D
(relevant part) of the Project.
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Provinces
shall otherwise agree, the Provinces shall carry out Parts A.2, A.3,
A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      (c)  The Provinces shall, for the purposes of Parts A.2, A.3,
A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars special accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Punjab Special Account, the
Sind Special Account, the NWFP Special Account and the Baluchistan
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
      Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Provinces shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of the
Project.
      Section 2.04.  (a) The Provinces shall, at the request of the
Association,  exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of
Page  3
the Project, the performance of their obligations under this
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)  The Provinces shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or
the performance by the Provinces of their obligations under this
Agreement.
                           ARTICLE III
                       Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Provinces shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition in respect of
Parts A.2,  A.3, A.4,  A.5,  B.2 and D  (relevant part)  of the
Project.
      (b)  The Provinces shall:
        (i)      have such records and accounts and those for
                 their Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                 audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                 principles consistently applied, by independent
                 auditors acceptable to the Association;
       (ii)      for the purposes of such audit, make available
                 such records and accounts to said auditors, not
                 later than three months after the end of each
                 such year;
      (iii)      furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                 but in any case not later than six months after
                 the end of each such year, the report of such
                 audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                 detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                 requested; and
       (iv)      furnish to the Association such other information
                 concerning said records and accounts as well as
                 the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
                 time to time reasonably request.
      Section 3.02.  (a)  The Provinces shall provide adequate
capital and operational funds to AUP, SARO, PARB and BARB,
respectively, so as to enable AUP, SARO, PARB and BARB to
successfully implement their long-term research plans as set forth
in their respective PRMPs.
      (b)  To that end, the Provinces shall, following each review
of PRMPs pursuant to paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
make such adjustments to their respective research priorities and
related work programs and financing plans for agricultural research
for the following twelve months as shall have been agreed with the
Association in light of the conclusions of such review.
                           ARTICLE IV
                  Effective Date; Termination;
                   Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
Page  4
        (i)      the date on which the Development Credit
                 Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                 terms; or
       (ii)      the date twenty years after the date of this
                 Agreement.
      (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Provinces of this event.
      Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE V
                    Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement among the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.U.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT),
                 Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
      For Punjab:
           Planning and Development Board
           Government of Punjab
           Lahore, Pakistan
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 DEVELOPMENT                  952-44868
                 Lahore, Pakistan             Punjab Secretariat
                                              Lahore, Pakistan
      For Sind:
           Planning and Development Department
           Government of Sind
           Karachi, Pakistan
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 DEVELOPMENT SIND             952-23950
                 Karachi, Pakistan
      For NWFP:
           Planning and Development Department
           Government of North West Frontier Province
           Peshawar, Pakistan
Page  5
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 DEVELOPMENT                  952-52371
                 Peshawar, Pakistan
      For Baluchistan:
           Planning and Development Department
           Government of Baluchistan
           Quetta, Pakistan
           Cable address:               Telex:
                 DEVELOPMENT                  952-7875
                 Quetta, Pakistan
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any Province, or by any Province, on behalf
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board, in the
case of Punjab, or by the Additional Chief Secretary (Development),
Planning and Development Department, in the case of Sind, or by the
Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department,  in
the case of NWFP or Baluchistan, or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America,  as of the day and year first above
written.
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                 By /s/ W. Wapenhans
                                        Regional Vice President
                           Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                 PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                 PROVINCE OF SIND
                 NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                 PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
                 By /s/ M. Afzal
                                      Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:    International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
Page  6
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, machinery,
motorcycles and office furniture shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Equipment, machinery, motorcycles and office furniture
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$1,000,000, in the case of Punjab, $600,000, in the case of Sind,
$300,000, in the case of NWFP and $200,000, in the case of
Baluchistan, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Spare parts and scientific books and journals, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $300,000, in the
case of Punjab, $200,000 in the case of Sind, $100,000, in the case
of NWFP and $100,000, in the case of Baluchistan, may be procured
through direct contracting in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and each contract for
equipment, machinery, motorcycles and office furniture estimated to
cost the equivalent of $70,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Province's
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
such Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Province's Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:Employment of Consultants
Page  7
      In order to assist the Provinces in preparing PRMPs, making
economic assessments of research investments, carrying out
diagnostic studies of agroecological zones, conducting priority
research programs, instituting a system of monitoring and evaluating
research, and providing training, the Provinces shall, not later
than December 31, 1990, employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be  selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                     Implementation Program
1.    Project  Coordination.  (a)  Overall responsibility for
coordination of day-to-day project activities shall be exercised:
(i) in Punjab, by DOA, in conjunction with DOL, to be replaced for
this purpose by PARB upon its establishment not later than June 30,
1991; (ii) in Sind, by DOA, to be replaced for this purpose by SARO
upon its establishment not later than June 30, 1991; (iii) in NWFP,
by AUP; and (iv) in Baluchistan, by DOA, in conjunction with DOL,
to be replaced for this purpose by BARB, upon its establishment not
later than June 30, 1991.
      (b)  Each such agency or department shall be assisted by a
Management Support Unit (MSU), to be established not later than
December 31, 1990.  MSUs shall, within their respective areas of
responsibility,  inter alia,  liaise with PARC; prepare the
Provinces' withdrawal applications; monitor and review progress of
the Project; and prepare the Provinces' semi-annual progress
reports.
2.    Project  Implementation.  Responsibility  for project
implementation shall be assigned: (a) in Punjab, to DOA, in
conjunction with DOL, to be replaced for this purpose by PARB when
established, under Parts A.4, A.5 and D of the Project; and to ARIs
and AUF, under Part B.2 of the Project; (b) in Sind, to DOA, to be
replaced for this purpose by SARO when established, under Parts A.4,
A.5 and D of the Project; and to ARIs and SAU, under Part B.2 of the
Project; (c) in NWFP, to AUP, under Parts A.4, A.5 and D of the
Project; and to ARIs and AUP, under Part B.2 of the Project; and (d)
in Baluchistan, to DOA, in conjunction with DOL, to be replaced for
this purpose by BARB when established, under Parts A.4, A.5 and D of
the Project; and to ARIs, under Part B.2 of the Project. The
Provinces shall retain direct responsibility for project
implementation under Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
3.    PRMP Preparation.  The Provinces shall:
      (a)  not later than October 31, 1990, establish working
parties, composed of senior research staff, to assist with the
preparation of PRMPs under Part A.4 of the Project;
      (b)  during the  preparation of PRMPs, cooperate, as
necessary, with PARC in taking actions and holding meetings so as to
ensure the adoption of standard techniques pursuant to paragraph 6
of Schedule 2 to the PARC Project Agreement;
(c)   as soon as PRMPs have been prepared, but not later than August
31, 1992, furnish such PRMPs to the Association, for its review and
concurrence; and
      (d)  thereafter, not later than March 31 in each year
beginning 1993, furnish such PRMPs, as  updated, to the Association,
for its review and concurrence.
4.    Staff Regulations.  Punjab and Baluchistan shall, not later
than June 30, 1991, modify their respective Public Service
regulations, to the satisfaction of the Association, so as to (a)
Page  8
provide for the recruitment and the promotion of professional
research staff on the basis of merit and achievements in research,
as measured by objective  criteria;  and  (b)  enhance  the
opportunities for promotion of such staff within their areas of
expertise.
5.    Project Reviews.  The Provinces shall participate in, and
shall offer their full cooperation in facilitating the carrying out
of, the annual and mid-term reviews of the Project and the follow-up
action all referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 2 to the PARC
Project Agreement.
6.    Progress Reports.  Pursuant to Section 9.06 of the General
Conditions, the Provinces shall, not later than sixty (60) days
after the end of each semester, beginning with the semester ending
December 31, 1990, furnish to the Association progress reports under
Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5, B.2 and D (relevant part) of the Project,
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
