Project Name               Morocco-Public Administration Reform Loan (PARL)
Region                     MNA
Sector                     Multi-Sector (Macroeconomic and Public Sector Management)
Project ID                 MAP078565
Borrower                   Kingdom of Morocco
Implementation Agency      Mirmstere Delegue aupres du Premier Ministre
Charge des Affaires economiques et generales et de la mise
a niveau de l'economie
Rabat
Date of Initial PID        June 5, 2003
Project Appraisal Date     June 9, 2003                      a     6  10   9
Project Board Date         (to be determined)
Backgrounid
The Kingdom of Morocco has made good progress in the 1990s in economic and political
reform. On the economic side, important milestones have been the signing of an Association
with the European Union in 1996, the liberalization of the telecomm sector, and the recent
reforms in labor markets. Very important also were the strong efforts implemented by the
authorities to improve access to services in rural areas, efforts whichi continue. Progress was
especially impressive on the political side, with the appointment of a prominent opposition leader
as prime minister in 1998, and recent elections to the House of Representative in September 2002
which were applauded as free and fair elections. Inter alia, the new government appointed after
these elections has the manidate to improve public resource management and transform the public
administration into a contributor to Morocco's accelerated growth and job creation agenda.
In collaboration with the World Bank and the EU, Morocco launched its Public
Administration Reform Program in early 2002. Suchi a program was based on prior Economllic
and Sector Work, including a participative PER in 2001-2002, whichi highlighted major structural
constraints to efficient public sector management such as the large wage bill and the excessive
centralization of expenditure management. The program focuses on the issues of budgetary
management and civil service reform within the context of administrative decentralization
(deconcentration), with a clear institutional perspective and a concrete solution-oriented
approach. During the 2003 Spring Meeting, the government approached the Bank with a request
for a quick-disbursing policy operation to support the effective implementation of its program.
The proposed Loan is the Bank's response to this request, based on intensive work since April
2001



Loan Obiectives and Description
The long-term objectives of the proposed Public Administration Reform Loan are to
improve the effectiveness of public resource management and its contributioll to accelerated
growth and poverty reduction through (i) improving the efficiency of budget expenditure by
deconcentrating expenditures and accountability to enable greater flexibility to regional
administrations, and by introducing performance budgeting and auditing, (ii) implementing a
reform of the civil service in order to enhance the efficiency and quality of public services, in the
context of deconcentration; and (ii) building-up a sustainable macro framework, by controllinlg
inter alia the magnitude of the civil service payroll.
The proposed loan is a one-traniche US$100 million operation, part of a larger and more
extended program of Bank support to the Governmeit's policy reform and institutioni building
efforts directed at improving public resource management and public administration in Morocco.
This loan would be the first in a series of annual loans supporting the implementation of the
reform program. Decisions on continuing financial support would be based annually on success
in meeting pre-established benchmarks.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
The proposed Public Administration Reform Loan is a Programmatic Structural
Adjustment Loan supporting the Government's overall public adminiistration reforn program
The governmenit views this Loan as a tangible sign of the Bank's endorsement of its reform
program, giving credibility to its efforts and formializinig the Bank's stamp of approval. This
would help in overcoming the traditional political and institutional obstacles which have affected
previous attempts at reform.
For the Bank, the proposed Loan is fully consistent with the CAS. It supports actions to
improve the effectiveness of government services and the sustainability of the fiscal framework
which are crucial to the overall country assistance. The proposed Adjustment Loan is part of the
CAS reform base case scenario, in turn made possible by the progress in fiscal management
experienced during 2001-2002.
Benefits and Risks
By addressing the key constraints affecting the effectiveness of public service
delivery, the proposed operation would contribute to the key goals of contributing to private
sector development and to poverty reduction. By helpinig keep the wage bill under control, it will
help ensure macroeconomic stability It would help provide the practical budgetary framework
necessary to implement the Government's deconcentration initiative.
One important risk is that the implementation of the reformis would be stalled, as was the
case in the past, because of coordination problems withiin the government and opposition from
interest groups. The risk is mitigated by the political coordination put in place by the new
Government to implement reforms. Also, the Bank is planiniiig, along with key partners,
extensive supervision of the implemenitation of the reforms, together withi the knowledge sharing
and technical assistance entailed by a programmatic ESW operation.
2



Implementation Arrangements
The proposed Loan would be disbursed in one installnent upon effectiveness.
Procurement and disbursement arrangemenits will follow the simplified procedures for Structural
Adjustment Operations Thus, disbursements will not be linked to specific purcilases and there
will be no procurement requirements. The local currency counterpart generated by the proposed
Loan will be used to finance the Budget. Although an audit of the use of funds may not be
required, IBRD reserves the right to require audits at any time.
Coordination with other Donors
At the request of the Govemment, this operation has been prepared jointly with the
European Commission which participated in all missions and prepared joint Aide-memoirs with
Bank staff.
Environment Category
The PARL has no direct impact on the environment. For the purpose of Operational
Directive 4.01, this project has been placed in the environmental category U, which does not
require an environmental assessment.
Contact Points:            The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N W.
Washington, D C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458-5454
Fax No. (202)522-1500
Task Team Leader
Pierre J. Demangel
The World Bank
1 81 8 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458-8023
Fax No. (202)477-0432
Note. This informationi is on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or components may not
be included in the final project.
Processed by the Infoshop on week ending        , 2003
3



