                                        Documentof
                                      The World Bank

                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                   Report No: P7589-MOR




     INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                           FORA


                             PROPOSEDADJUSTMENTLOAN

      Ir THE AMOUNT OF m . 5 MILLION             (us$ioo MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO


                               THE KINGDOMOF MOROCCO


                                           FORA


              PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORMADJUSTMENTLOAN




                                         June4,2004




Social andEconomic DevelopmentGroup
MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region

This documenthasa restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipientsonly intheperformanceof
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group
authorization.

                       CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                               (As o f M a y 2004)

                            Currency Unit = MAD
                               MAD1=US$O.lO
                            US$l.OO =MAD9.172

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1-December 31


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CED    Expenditure Commitment Control (Contr6ledes Engagements deDkpenses)
ESW    Economic Sector Work
EU     European Union
FDI    Foreign Direct Investment
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IGF    General Inspector o f Finance (inspection gknkrale des$nances)
IGM    Ministries' General Inspectorates (inspection gkndrale des ministgres)
IMF    InternationalMonetary Fund
IT     Information technologies
M o F  MinistryofFinance
MTEF   Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework
OED    Operations Evaluation Department
PARL   Public Administration Reform Adjustment Loan
PER    Public ExpenditureReview
PJD    Parti de la Justice et du Dkveloppement
PM     Prime Minister
SAL    Structural Adjustment Loan
TGR    Kingdom's General Treasurer (Trdsorerie G&nkraledu Royaume)
U S A  United States o f America
VAT    Value Added Tax




            Vice-president:                    Christiaan Poortman
            Sector Director:                   Mustapha K.Nabli
            Country Director:                  Theodore Ahlers
            Task Team Leader:                  Pierre Demangel

                                                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


            INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENTFOR
         A PROPOSED PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORMADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                  TO THEKINGDOMOFMOROCCO


                                                  TABLEOFCONTENTS



     LOAN PROGRAMSUMMARY
             AND                             ...................................................................................................          i
     ICOUNTRYANDECONOMIC
     .                                   CONTEXT           .....................................................................................         1
       A Country Context                                                                                                                                 1
       B Politicaland Economic Developments                                                                                                              2
       C Public Sector and Governance Issues                                                                                                             4
       D Medium-TermMacroeconomic ProspectsandFiscal Sustainability
        ....                 ..................................................................................................................
                                                                 ................................................................................
                                                                  ...............................................................................
                                                                                                                         .............................   5
     11 THEGOVERNMENT'S
      .                         REFORMPROGRAM                       .............................................................................        9
       A Objectives o fthe Program                                                                                                                       9
       B Government's PastReformActivities                                                                                                              10
       C The Government's Present Reform Program
        ...                                   ..................................................................................................
                                                                 ..............................................................................
                                                                               .................................................................        11
            1. Improving theEflciency ofBudget Management .........................................................                                     11
            2. Improving theAdministration's EfJiciency in Human ResourceManagement .............12
            3. Keeping the WageBill under Control ...........................................................................                           14
     111 THEPROPOSEDPUBLICADMINISTRATION REFORMADJUSTMENT
       .                                                                                                           LOANP U )    (                ........14
       A Loan Objectives andDescription                                                                                                                  14
       B LoanRationale                                                                                                                                   14
       C Earlier BankAssistance andLessonsLearned                                ...............................................................         15
       D InstitutionalArrangements withGovernment
        ....               ...................................................................................................................
                                                          .....................................................................................

                                                                                                                                                         16
       E Coordinationwith other Donors                                                                                                                   16
       F Benefits andRisks
        ..                                                                       ...............................................................
                               ..............................................................................................................
                                                         ......................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                         17



     ANNEXES

     Annex I: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy
     Annex 11:      Policy Matrix
     Annex 111:     List o f Measures Taken by the Borrower under the FirstPhase of the Program
     Annex IV:      IMFMorocco-2004 Article IVConsultation.SummingUp
     Annex V:       Morocco At A Glance
     Annex VI:      Operations Portfolio
     Annex VII:     Morocco PARLTask Team

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                 .
without World Bank authorization                        .


                             KINGDOM OFMOROCCO

            PUBLICADMINISTRATION REFORMADJUSTMENTLOAN
                                         ( P A W
                           LoanandProgramSummary




Borrower:       Kingdom o f Morocco

Amount:         82.5 million (USSlOO million equivalent)

Terms:          Libor-based Fixed Spread Loan, commitment linked, annuity maturity type,
                repayable in20 years, including five years o f grace period.

Description:    The objectives o f the proposed program are to support the Government's
                efforts to improve the effectiveness o f public resource management, a key
                step for accelerated growth and poverty reduction. It includes: (i)
                                                                                  improving
                the efficiency o f budget expenditure by de-concentrating expenditures and
                accountability to enable greater flexibility to regional administrations, and
                by introducing performance budgeting and auditing; (ii)     implementing a
                reform o f the civil service based on enhancing efficiency and service
                quality; and (iii) ensuring a sustainable macro framework, by controlling
                inter alia the magnitude o f the civil service payroll.

                Based on an agreed set o f public administration reforms, the Bank will
                provide resources to the Government. The proposed loan would be the first
                in a series of annual programmatic loans supporting the implementation of
                the reform program. The proposed loan would complement and strengthen
                the ongoing multi-year Economic and Sector Work (ESW) activity through
                which the Bank is providing the Government with advice, training and
                technical assistance as required in the areas o f budgetary management and
                civil service. It i s closely coordinated with the European Union: program
                content, conditions and trigger points are common to the two institutions.

Benefits:       By addressing the key constraints affecting the effectiveness o f public
                service delivery, the proposed operation would contribute to the key goals o f
                private sector development and poverty reduction. By helping keep the
                wage bill under control, it will help ensure macroeconomic stability.      It
                would help provide the practical budgetary framework necessary to
                implement the Government's administrative decentralization orientation.
                From the Bank's point o f view, this operation would provide an example
                across the region o f how to address these important issues.




                                             i

Risks:         One important risk is that the Government would not be able to resist
               pressures to increase salaries for various categories o f civil servants, and
               significantly undermine the improvement in the fiscal balance that allowed
               us to move to the base case CAS scenario. This risk i s being mitigated by
               the reform program itself, combined with the reformist stamp o f the
               Government. Another risk i s that the implementation o f the reforms would
               be stalled, as was the case in the past, because o f the silo mentality in
               Government and opposition from interest groups. The risk i s mitigated by
               the political coordination put in place by the new Cabinet to implement
               reforms, and also by the strategic policy dialogue pursued between
               Moroccan authorities and the Bank. Also, we are planning, along with key
               partners, extensive supervision o f the implementation o f the reforms,
               together with the knowledge sharing and technical assistance entailed by a
               continuationo f the programmatic ESW operation.

Disbursements: The proposed Loan would be disbursed in one installment upon Loan
               effectiveness.


ProjectIDNo:   PO78565

Map:           IBRD31437




                                          11

        INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONANDDEVELOPMENT
                                  PROGRAMDOCUMENTFOR
              A PUBLICADMINISTRATION REFORMADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                TO THE KINGDOMOFMOROCCO


 1.      The proposed adjustment loan to the Kingdom o f Morocco for 82.5 million (US$lOO
 million equivalent) will contribute to financing the Public Administration Reform Program. The
 objectives o f the proposed loan are to support the Government's efforts to improve the
 effectiveness o f public resource management, a key step for accelerated growth and poverty
 reduction. They include: (i)   improving the efficiency o f budget expenditure by de-concentrating
 expenditures and accountability to enable greater flexibility to regional administrations, and by
 introducing performance budgeting and auditing; (ii)    implementing a reform o f the civil service
 based on enhancing efficiency and service quality; and (iii)ensuring a sustainable macro
 framework by controlling inter alia the magnitude o f the civil service payroll. It i s closely
 coordinated with the European Union (EU): program content, conditions and trigger points are
 common to the two institutions. The European Commission considers a support in the form o f a
 Structural Adjustment Grant, with yearly tranches. The borrower has requestedthat the Loan be
 Libor-based Fixed Spread Loan, commitment linked, annuity maturity type, repayable in 20
 years, including five years o f grace period and would be disbursed in one installment upon
 effectiveness.

                               I.COUNTRYANDECONOMIC           CONTEXT

                                         A. Country Context

 2.       Countw Context. Morocco i s a lower middle-income country with a population o f about
 31 million, and a gross national income per capita estimated at US$ 1400 in 2003. Agriculture
 retains a key role in the economy, with a share o f Gross Domestic Product (GDP) lingering
 around 16 percent over the last twenty years, and employing some 40 percent o f the labor force,
 compared to 25 percent and 35 percent for industry and services, respectively. The economy i s
 relatively open with exports and imports amounting to about 69 percent o f GDP. Europeremains
 Morocco's major trading partner, and important exports include phosphates and phosphate
`derivatives, textiles, food (fresh and processed), and tourism.

 3,       Economic and Social Trends. Economic growth was disappointing, averaging around 2
 percent per year during the 1990s, and was characterized by high volatility originating from
 output swings in drought-stricken agriculture. Non-agncultural growth was less volatile, but
 averaging only some 3.1 percent duringthe period, reflecting stagnant private investment at some
  13.5 percent o f GDP, (22 percent for gross fixed investment, including public investment), and
 Morocco's failure to take advantage o f the growth in world trade during the 1990s. This same
 period witnessed the firming up o f macro stability, with budget deficits averaging 3.5 percent o f
 GDP, declining external debt, and inflation rates, underpinned by a fixed exchange rate,
 converging towards two percent by the end o f the decade.

 4.       On the social front, although many indicators such as life expectancy, access to basic
 infrastructure such as water, roads and electricity, and school enrolment rates have improved
 steadily over the last few years, Morocco still has a way to go to reach comparable countries in
 terms o f poverty, equity, health and education. Poverty rose from 13 to 19 percent o f the
 population between 1991 and 1998 due to a series o f droughts and very slow growth, with 75



                                                    1

percent o f the country's poor living in rural areas. Although more recent survey data are
unavailable, World Bank projections indicate that poverty probably decreased to 12 - 15 percent
by 2003 given the strong agricultural performance o f the past few years. There are significant
economic and social disparities both between and within rural and urban regions, and between
men and women.

5.       Fiscal policy and public expenditure management during this period both reflected and
contributedto these mixedresults. Budgetmanagement was primarily directed duringthis period
at reducing and thereafter maintaining the fiscal deficit at a low level, with insufficient regard for
the delivery o f public services, in particular in rural areas. Budget execution was characterized
by its rigidity, with the Ministry o f Finance (MoF) using heavy and centralized control
mechanisms to delay programs in order to ensure meeting deficit targets. The economic and
political developments o f the late 1990s, however, brought significant changes in development
objectives and economic policies.


                              B. Political andEconomic Developments

6.       Political Developments.      Over the last five years, a major democratic and political
transition has been initiated in Morocco.       In 1998, a well respected opposition leader was
appointed Prime Minister (PM) after national elections: for the first time in independent
Morocco's history the opposition was allowed to become a majority and to rule. Following the
death o f King Hasan I1in 1999, King Mohammed VI has further reinforced the trend towards
political opening, focusing new initiatives on the pressing social issues facing the country,
including education reform, women's conditions, and further strengthening transparency in
justice. Parliamentary elections were held in September 2002 and were widely considered to be
the first free and fair elections inthe country's history. The elections involved 27 political parties
and resulted in the strongest showings for the Union Socialiste des Forces Populaires (15.4
percent), Istiqlal (14.8 percent) and the islamist Parti de la Justice et du Ddveloppement (PJD
 12.9 percent). Due to the strong performance o f the PJD and the complicated coalition building
necessary to form a majority Cabinet, the King exercised his constitutional rights and appointed
the PM, Mr. Driss Jettou, former Minister o f Interior. This appointment was perceived to be
motivatedby the desire to improve the efficiency o f economic and structural reforms by having a
technician rather than a politician lead the Cabinet. Mr.Jettou appointed a Cabinet that includes
the main political parties, with the exception o f the PJD, which now remains the principal
political opposition. H e also appointed a handful o f Ministers with close ties to the Palace to help
steward reforms.

7.       The Casablanca bombings o f M a y 16, 2003 had a tremendous impact on the country,
unleashing fears and putting into question the "Moroccan exception": with the King being the
"Commander o f the Faithful", Morocco was deemed immune from extremist ideologies. The
result o f these tragic events was to strengthen the King's resolve to move forward with
democracy while ensuring security, with the Government adopting both security and social
measures (e.g. social housing, education) as top priorities, as evidenced by the 2004 budget law.
Local elections were delayed a few months because o f the May events, but took place
successfully in September 2003. Given the post-May 16 ambiance, the PJD limitedits candidates
and thus enjoyed modest results incomparison with the parliamentary elections.

8.       Recent Economic Developments. After being almost nil in 1999 and only one percent in
2000, real GDP registered growth rates o f 6.3 percent in 2001, 3.2 percent in 2002 and 5.5
percent in 2003. The high growth rate during the past few years has been due largely to good
agricultural performance, but also somewhat to improving non-agricultural growth.                 The



                                                   2

Government's strategy has been to focus on a few high potential sectors, principally tourism,
telecommunications and information technologies (IT), fisheries, and housing. Over the last few
years, the targeted sectors have experienced strong growth: tourist amvals after the stagnation o f
the early 90s started to grow at around 20 percent, the IT sector was boosted by the introduction
o f competition and by privatization, and housing reached growth rates o f around six percent per
year. But these results were not enough to significantly increase total non-agricultural growth,
and the authorities decided to also boost aggregate demand through expansionary fiscal policy.

9.       During 1999-2001, fiscal policy became markedly expansionary, as large privatization
proceeds from the telecommunications sector allowed the authorities to increase the budget
deficit to more than 6 percent o f GDP without increasing public borrowing. The deterioration in
public finance was explained primarily by a sharp increase inpublic expenditures, mostly current
expenditures, in particular wages and salaries (see below).            The increasing rigidity in the
composition o f expenditures, combined with the short-term nature o f revenues, in particular
privatization revenues, led to concerns about the medium-term sustainability of public finances.'
As a result o f these concerns, the Bank has abstained from providing fast disbursingsupport to
Morocco as indicated inthe CAS low base case scenario.

10.      In 2002, Morocco's fiscal position began to strengthen.          Structural fiscal indicators,
including budgetary savings and the primary deficit, improved in 2002 as compared to both the
2001 outcome and the 2002 Budget Law. Similarly, the wage bill reversed its rising trend and
declined in2002 as a share of GDP for the first time since the mid-1990s. Inaddition, despite the
failure to mobilize privatization revenues, the authorities were able to finance domestically the
deficit in 2002 without recourse to accumulation o f arrears or significantly straining domestic
financial markets.

 11.     In 2003, the budget deficit appears to have deteriorated compared to that set in the
Budget Law 2003 despite the improvement o f revenues. The deterioration stemmed mainly from
salary increases due to a renewed focus on security and the need to adequately compensate
security and armed forces. Inaddition, as in several instances inthe past civil service promotions
which had been frozen to control the wage bill became long overdue and were finally granted
under social pressure. The increase inthe 2003 wage billreflected arrears for teachers (MAD 1.6
billion), reinforcement o f security personnel as a result o f M a y 16 events (MAD 0.25 billion) and
outlays for the unpaid salaries for the repatriated military personnel from Algeria (MAD 0.35
billion). The good news i s that most o f these salary expenditures will not appear in the future
wage base as they were one-time expenditures. Medium-term fiscal trends are discussed inmore
detail below.

 12.      Other aspects o f economic performance inMorocco have also improved during 2002 and
2003. The external position i s strong: the current account has been in surplus since 2001, due
mainly to large foreign remittances and tourism inflows. External reserves have recently reached
comfortable levels at 10 months o f imports. Inaddition, inflation i s low and stable (despite some
pressure o f momentary high liquidity in the economy). Economic growth in 2003 i s estimated
above 5.5 percent, due to excellent rainfall during this period which would benefit households
and businesses inboth urban and rural areas. And the agenda o f structural reforms planned over


 1  Privatization revenues are currently expected to become marginal within the next three years. In
addition, there was a temporary surge in other revenue in 1999-2000, but this was caused by one-off
exceptional inflows, such as a fiscal amnesty or higher public enterprise profits and loan repayments.
Current tax revenues as a proportion o f the more stable non-agricultural GDP remained stable. Finally,
tariff revenues are expected to decline by some two percent o f GDP over the next five years as Morocco
 implementsthe lastphase of the association agreement with the EU.


                                                    3

the medium term provides reason for cautious optimism regarding Morocco's prospects for
sustainable growth. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) recently concluded its Article IV
consultations with Morocco and issued an assessmento frecent economic developments along the
same lines as the one above (see Annex N).

                                C. Public Sector and Governance Issues

13.      Public Administration Background. Morocco's system o f public administration derives
from France, from which it inherited the budget and treasury system, the administrative
organization o f territorial services, and the tenured civil service system. The budget system i s
                                                                           characterized by strong
             Msasesalarfaled4 lafonctlonpullllque en%du PIB(1997-1999)     ex-ante          compliance
   12                                                                      controls. Ex-post auditing
   10                                                                       is the role of the Cour des
                                                                           comptes (supreme       audit
    8                                                                      institution), a branch of
    6                                                                      the judiciary. In addition
                                                                           to    central   services   in
    4                                                                       Rabat,    most    ministries

    2                                                                      have branch offices at the
                                                                           regional and provincial
    n                                                                     I 1   1,    ...l..
                                                                                         -l.



                                                                            such as schools or health
centers. Local governments exist at the regional, provincial and communal levels.

 14.     Civil servants are managed according to a corps system, with pay scales and grades
specific to each corps. At about 600,000, or about 6 percent o f the active population, the number
o f central government civil servants does not seem excessive, by comparison to a sample o f other
countries. The wage bill, however, as a percentage o f GDP, i s among the highest inthe world. It
reached 12.5 percent of GDP in 2001 and 12.7 percent in 2003, although it decreased to 12.2
percent in 2002. The main cause o f the large wage bill i s essentially the high compensation2
level. Indeed, if average compensation i s expressed as a multiple o f per capita GDP, Morocco's
i s among the highest inthe world.

 15.     Kev Public Sector Issues. Public sector management i s characterized by: (i)          excessive
centralization, between the M o F and the other ministries on the one hand, and between Ministries
headquarters inRabat and their branch offices and service-providing units on the other; and (ii)       a
culture o f administrative formalism.

 16.     Excessive centralization has resulted in slow program implementation, lack o f cross-
sector coordination, and insufficient participation from stakeholders. Centralized procedures for
budget preparation and execution are cumbersome and have undermined efficiency in the use of
public resources. Managers inthe field, close to service beneficiaries, have little say on the use o f
budget resources, as well as on managing their own staff. The culture o f centralism inMorocco
applies not only to M o F expenditures procedures, but also to the way central ministries deal with
the operations o f their branch offices, or, more generally, to the way central government deals
with its relations with local governments. Indeed, although90percent ofcivil servants (including
teachers) work outside the capital, most o f the decision malung and budget management takes
place inRabat.

  Compensation includes salaries, bonuses and various cash benefits.


                                                           4

17.     Civil service management is characterized by a tenure system, combined with a rigid
system o f promotion and salary increases.        The system provides little incentives for good
perfomance.      Pay raise and promotions tend to be linked more to seniority and collective
bargaining within each corps, than to performance.                The skills mix, biased towards
implementation rather than managerial or analytical profiles, does not serve well the needs of a
modem administration.        An opaque and fragmented compensation system, coupled with
constraining     regulations,   has   inhibited   staff    redeployment,    impeded     administrative
decentralization, and prevented the effective use o f a merit-based compensation system.

18.     The architecture o f the civil service system and the growing numbers o f staff have led to
weaknesses in controlling the wage bill. Civil service statutes are regularly by-passed under
social pressure. Recently, the Government has been granting "exceptional promotions" by which
large groups o f civil servants in a specific ministry or in a particular profession received un-
statutory promotions, resulting inincreases insalaries and bonuses. These promotions have led to
a process o f salary realignment across the civil service in order to preserve appropriate relative
pay levels, and as a result from pressure from staff in ministries or corps whose salaries and
bonuses hadnot yet been adjusted.

            D. Medium-Term MacroeconomicProspects andFiscal Sustainability

19.     As noted above, the large fiscal deficits o f 1999-2001 financed mainly through
privatization revenues, raise questions about the sustainability o f the Government's fiscal policy.
Morocco managed to reduce central govemment public debt duringthe 1990s from a high o f 89
percent o f GDP in 1993 to 74 percent in 1998. At the end o f 2002, however, central govemment
direct debt was still more than 71 percent o f GDP. Expressed otherwise, privatization proceeds
have weakened fiscal discipline, and inparticular have been used to finance large increases inthe
wage bill and other current expenditures. However, as privatization proceeds wind down over the
medium-term, there i s concern that public debt could rapidly increase as a share o f GDP unless
expansionary policies are corrected andrevenues are consolidated.

20.      Projections indicate that, assuming no change in overall policies, Morocco's fiscal
position remains unsustainable over the medium- to long-term. However, the increase inthe debt
to GDP ratio i s gradual. Indeed, after an expected drop in 2003, the central govemment debt to
GDP ratio starting in 2005 begins to rise gradually. By 2012, public debt would have risen to
about 87 percent o f GDP, a 16 point rise since 2002. The debt to GDP ratio time path results
from the combination o f a U shaped primary deficit, including privatization proceeds, and the
assumed gradual increase inborrowing costs. Inturn, the path over time o f the primary deficit
reflects several factors, including the availability o f privatization revenue, the decline intrade tax
revenues, and the slow fall in the wage bill as a share o f GDP. In other words, while the
measures implemented in2002 and 2003 have had an impact, they are not enough to stabilize the
debt dynamics   .

21.      Given these results, the authorities understand the need to implement further fiscal
adjustment. The goals o f such adjustment are not only to ensure debt sustainability in the
medium- and long-term, but also to create some room in the budget for financing development
priorities o f the authorities (e.g. improved delivery o f services in rural areas, improved housing
conditions in urban settings) and for facing contingent liabilities. Preliminary estimates suggest
that to maintain the debt to GDP ratio constant at its current level would imply an adjustment of
 1.7 percentage points o f GDP in average in the primary balance, while an adjustment o f some 3
points o f GDP would be required to create the necessary fiscal space and flexibility to manage
unforeseen budgetary shocks. Inits article IV consultations, the IMFrecommendedthat Morocco
bringsits fiscal deficit below three percent o f GDP inthe medium-term.


                                                   5

22.      The Government has recently announced publicly its commitment to reduce the fiscal
deficit to some 3 percentage points o f GDP in the medium term. They confirmed this objective
duringmultiple discussions held withjoint missions o f the WordBank and the EU, including at
negotiations of this proposed adjustment loan. They intend to do so through reductions in the
fiscal deficit of some 0.5 percentage points annually. Achieving these savings will not be easy,
given rigidities in expenditures and anticipated revenue losses both as a result o f tariff
dismantling and o f fiscal exoneration schemes. The reform o f the public sector, which i s
supported by this loan, aims, among others, at overcoming the main shortcomings on the
expenditure side inorder to allow for the achievement o f the objectives set by the Government.

23.      Hence, the Government aims at reducing the wage bill fkom 12.4 percent o f GDP, as set
inthe 2004 Budget Lawto less than 11percent in2007. This wouldbe achievedmainly through
the implementation o f an early retirement scheme over the next four years targeting o f some
60,000 civil servants and the adoption o f an improved civil servants statute that allow for an
efficient management system o f promotion and remuneration (see below).              Efficiency o f
expenditures should eventually improve through de-concentration and results oriented budgeting
- but significant expenditure savings on non-wage items will be difficult to achieve.          The
anticipated redesign o f the compensation system may contribute to deficit reduction, though to a
lesser extent, as part o f the savings would be used infunding a safety for the poor affected by the
proposed dismantling. The continued active debt management could also lead to small savings.
Nevertheless, despite these actions on the expenditure side, the budget deficit target would not be
reached inthe medium term without other fiscal measures, essentially on the revenues side.

24.      Indeed, Morocco has been strengthening its tax administration, as proven by the increase
inelasticity oftax revenuesto GDP over the past two years. Yet, some additionalgains couldbe
made by improving further tax administration and through changes in tax policy, e.g. by
improving the tax structure and reducing or removing fiscal exemptions o f doubtful social and
economic value. These gains should be large enough to compensate for the loss o f revenues due
to trade liberalization, either under the ongoing implementation o f the agreement with the EU or
under the recent agreement with the United States o f America (USA).          The Government has
identifiedthe needto enlarge the tax base by removing exemptions and continuing to improve tax
administration. Under this adjustment scenario, which the main assumptions and results are
presentedin Table I below, the ratio o f revenues to GDP, not including privatization receipts, has
been assumed to remain at the same level as inthe Budget Law 2003.




                                                  6

                           Table 1. Fiscal sustainability--Adjustment scenario



Assumptions                                          2002   2003    2004     2005 2006   2007    2012
Macro
    Real GDP growth                                  3.2%   5.5%    3.0%    3.8%  4.0%   4.5%    5.0%
    Interest rate (nominal)
         Ondomestic debt                             7.5%   7.5%    6.8%    6.8%  6.8%   6.9%    8.2%
         Oninternational debt                        3.8%   3.3%    4.3%    4.4%  4.5%   4.5%    5.0%
    Inflation                                        0.6%    1.5%   2.0%    2.5%  2.5%   2.5%    2.5%
Revenues
    Total Revenues (as % o f GDP)                  24.7% 24.1% 24.0% 23.8% 23.8% 23.8% 23.8%
    Trade taxes (as YOo f GDP)                       3.1%   2.5%    2.3%     2.0% 1.8%   1.6%    1.0%
    Direct taxes (elasticity to GDP)                   2.07   1.33   1.44    1.00 1.00   1.00    1.00
    Privatizationrevenues (DHbillions)                 0.62 11.96   12.00    4.00 2.00   1.00    0.00
Expenditures
    Wage bill (growth rate)                           1.2% 11.0%    2.7%     4.8% 1.0%   2.2%    4.5%
    Capital expenditures (as % o f GDP)               5.0%  4.7%    4.5%     4.5% 4.5%   4.5%    4.5%
    Other current exp. (as % o f GDP)                 6.2%   6.4%   6.1%     5.9% 6.2%   5.9%    5.3%

Fiscal sustainability (as YOof GDP)
    Expenditures
         Wage bill                                  12.2% 12.7% 12.4% 12.2% 11.5% 11.0%          9.2%
         Interest payments                            4.4%   4.1%   4.0%     4.1% 4.1%   4.1%    4.0%
    Primary balance (incl. Priv and FHII)             0.2%   0.5%   0.8% -0.1% -0.1%     0.6%    3.1%
         net ofprivat. rev. and transfers to FH2      0.0% -1.0% -1.2% -0.6% -0.3%       0.5%    3.1%
    Budget deficit (commitment basis) excl. Priv    -4.4% -6.4% -6.0% -5.0% -4.5% -3.7% -1.0%
  & incl. Transfersto FHII
     Structural Budget deficit *                     -4.4% -5.6% -4.8% -4.4% -4.1% -3.3% -1.0%
    Privatization revenues                            0.2%   2.8%   2.7%     0.8% 0.4%   0.2%    0.0%
     Debt stock                                     71.3% 69.8% 69.4% 69.3% 69.4% 68.5% 56.8%
(*) Lump-sumpaymentsofearly retirementscheme andtransfersto FHIIare excluded.

25.      Under the assumptions described above, the Govemment projects that the budget deficit
will follow a downward trend to reach a rate o f less than 3.5 percent by 2007. The primary
balance will shift from a deficit to a surplus starting in 2007 that will allow for a drop in central
government total debt ratio from 69.8 percent in2002 to 56.8 percent in2012. The improvement
of the budget structure and the easing o f deficit financing will allow for more efficient budget
management and improved targeting o f public expenditures towards priority programs. In order
to meet these deficit objectives, the Government i s planning to take measures both on the
expenditure and revenue sides. This loan supports key actions to improve the efficiency o f
expenditures and reduce the wage bill. Regarding revenues, the Govemment i s preparing a
reform program with the assistance o f the EU and the IMF that aims at consolidating revenues.
The World Bank has encouraged the Government to go forward quickly in this direction to be
able to adopt the first, even ifpreliminary measures, inthe context o fthe 2005 budget.

26.      To be able to monitor the implementation o f its macroeconomic program, and based on
the recent Article IV consultations, the Government, in collaboration with the staff o f the Bank
and the European Commission, has quantified its key macroeconomic targets. These targets take
into account ongoing reforms (especially those regarding up-grading o f the economy or "Mise a
niveau", including the foreign trade, financial sector, labor markets, andtransport sectors), as well



                                                     7

as the public administration reform supported by the proposed loan, and the fiscal reform under
preparation.      The most important targets were selected as monitoring indicators that the
Government and Bank staff will follow particularly closely to evaluate whether the
macroeconomic framework remains satisfactory and are presentedin Table2.

        Table 2. Follow-up indicators for the implementation of the Macroeconomic framework

                                                              Actual        Estimation            Projection
                                                            2001     2002    2003    2004     2005     2006     2007
Macroeconomic indicators
Growth rates in %
Real GDP                                                      6.3      3.2     5.5     3.0      3.8      4.0      4.5
Exports o f goods incurrent DH                                2.3      7.1    -3.6     5.0      6.2      6.5      6.5
Inflation rate (GDP deflator)                                  1.8     0.6      1.5    2.0      2.5      2.5      2.5


Inpercent of GDP
Gross investment                                             22.8     22.0    23.3    23.7     24.1     24.5     24.8
Current account balance                                       4.7      4.1     2.9     2.5       1.8      1.6     1.2
Official foreign reserves (Months o f imports)                8.8      8.9     9.9     9.7        +        +        +

Public finances (in % of GDP)
Total revenues (*)                                           24.9     24.7    24.1    24.0     23.8     23.8     23.8
  Ofwhich fiscal revenues                                    21.9     22.0    21.4    21.3     21.6     21.6     21.6


Total expenditures (**)                                      31.7     29.6    29.6    28.9     28.5     28.2     27.4
  Of which salaries                                          12.5     12.2    12.7    12.4      12.2    11.5     11.0
  Of which investment (***)                                    5.7     5.0      4.7    4.5       4.5      4.5     4.5
Budget deficit (****)                                         -6.2    -4.3     -5.1   -4.9      -4.7    -4.4      -3.6


Total direct debt stock                                      74.7     71.3    69.8    69.4      69.3    69.4     68.5
(*) Include VAT o f Local Governments (Collectivitks Locales) and special accounts (Road Fund, Fonds routier, and
Price subsidization, Soutien desprix), and exclude privatizationrevenues
(**) Include transfers o f VAT to Collectivitks Locales, Fonds routier and Soutien desprix, exclude transfers to Hasan
I1Fund(Fonds Hassan Zr) and the balance of other special accounts
(***) IncludeFonds routier
(****) Include the balance of other special accounts and exclude transfers to Fonds HassanI1
(+) Maintainthe level of official foreign reserves at more than 9 months ofimports


27.       Under the Government's reformprogram, economic growth path would be slightly higher
than that achieved during the last ten years. Hence, economic activity i s expected to grow at a
slightly more than 4 percent during 2005-2007, and reach4.5 percent in2007, mainly as a result
o f an increase in the growth rate o f the non-agnculture sector to 4.4 percent on average during
this time period. On the supply side, industrywould be the drivingforce o f growth (5 percent),
with construction at 7.3 percent (social housing, public infrastructures and tourism facilities) and
manufactures at 4.8 percent (electric and electronic goods, textiles) being two key sub-sectors.
Tourism activities which are expected to grow at 5.3 percent would be another growth sector. On
the demand side, growth will be driven by the recovery o f exports and higher investment, both
private and public. Real exports o f goods and services would average 5.5 percent over the period,
mainly owing to increased Euro area demand and enlarged market access (global free trade



                                                            8

agreement with the USA and more agriculture products exports with the EU). Regarding
investment, gross investment rate would improve by 1.1 percentage points to reach 24.8 percent
o f GDP in 2007, with the private sector as the main investing actor. Public investment would be
mainly implemented through the Hasan I1 Fund, which i s expected to contribute to many
infrastructure programs, in particular in tourism, basic infrastructure and social housing. The
tighter fiscal stance is also expected to reduce potential crowding out o fprivate investment.

28.      The monetary authorities are expected to carry out a sustainable pro-growth policy with
money growth in line with that o f nominal GDP. The momentary surge o f excess liquidity
generated by privatization receipts have been dealt with through the rise o f reserve requirements
from 10 percent in 2002 to 16.4 percent in September 2003. The higher reserve requirement i s
expected to help absorb the anticipated high privatization receipts in 2004, making the central
bank management o f liquidity less difficult.       Consequently, inflation i s expected to remain
subdued at an average o f 2.5 percent over the projectionperiod, aided by low imported inflation.

29.      With regard to the extemal accounts, the current account is expected to be in surplus at
about 1.5 percent o f GDP on average during 2005-2007. This surplus, along with privatization
receipts o f about 1.8 percent o f GDP inaverage and other foreign direct investment (FDI)3,would
ease external financing conditions. In addition, extemal financing would be further eased by
expected inflows o f concessional capital, mainly from the EU. All these factors would make
external outstanding debt to fall from 38.9 percent o f GDP in 2003 to 32.3 percent in 2007 and
extemal financing i s not expected to represent a constraint.

30.      In conclusion, the Government's macroeconomic framework is satisfactory. In 2004,
inflationary pressures are low, the current account o f the balance o f payments i s in surplus, and
the Government has taken action to reduce the wage bill and prepare a program to stabilize public
revenues.     The actions supported by the current loan will reduce current expenditures, in
particular the wage bill, over time while increasing the efficiency and impact o f government
programs. Combined with the revenue reform program under preparation, these actions will
result ina sustainable reduction in the fiscal deficit and the public debt burden. The Govemment
and Bank staff will monitor the implementation o f the reform program on the basis o f table 2
above and will consult with each other if the economy departs significantly from the projected
path. The Government i s committed to take actions as required to maintain the economy on a
sustainable path.

                           11. THEGOVERNMENT'S        REFORMPROGRAM

                                   A. Objectives of the Program

31.      While workmg on strategies to help energize growth and cope with persistent problems
o f unemployment, education outcomes and housing, the Govemment has identified public
administration reform as a priority.       Bureaucratic inertia, and the over-centralization o f the
administration are key hindrances to efforts to improve competitiveness and the business
environment. The aim i s to provide Morocco with a modern administration that can contribute to
the competitiveness o f the economy and to the sustainable development o f the country while
ensuring the viability o f its macroeconomic framework.        De-concentration (the delegation o f
power from Rabat to regional and provincial offices o f the central govemment) i s considered by
Moroccan authorities as the centerpiece o f efforts to bring budget decision-making and service



  FDIwould total someUS$2.9billionover 2004-2007, ofwhich, US$2 billiondueto privatization
program andUS$ 0.9 billion of other FDI


                                                  9

delivery control closer to the population. The Government has indicated its willingness to give
the regona14level a key role inde-concentration5.

32.     The program's objectives can be summarized as follows:

     0  Improving the efficiency o f budget expenditure by de-concentrating expenditures and
        accountability to enable greater flexibility to regional administrations, and by introducing
        performance budgetingand auditing.

     0  Implementing a reform o f the civil service based on enhancing efficiency and service
        quality.

        Ensuringa sustainable macro fkamework, by controlling inter alia the magnitude o f the
        civil service payroll.

                             B. Government'sPastReformActivities

33.     Inthe second part of the 1990s, the Government has made several attempts at reforming
public administration, in particular with support from the Bank and UNDP. The common thread
o f these past initiatives has been good diagnosis and the design o f comprehensive reform
programs, but also a failure to implement those programs successfully. Implementation has been
undermined by lack o f coordination between political decision makers and ministries, concerns
with losing administrative and fiscal control, and excessively ambitious programs. A more recent
Bank-supported participative PER (completed in2002) has succeeded in overcoming some o f the
coordination problems by creating two inter-ministerial worlung groups on respectively budget
reform and civil service management. Buildingon the lessons o f these past attempts, and also on
the first results o f the PER, the Govemment has taken a prudent approach based on inter-
ministerial coordination, wide consensus, and piloting reforms in selected ministries before
generalized implementation.

34.      On public expenditure management, the reformprogram expands on reforms initiatedby
various worlung groups, notably: i)legislation improving the formulation and execution o f the
budget by introducing performance-based budgeting, and increasing the accountability as well as
the powers o f spending ministries6; ii)draft legislation on the responsibilities o f executive
officers, government auditors and government accountants, aimed at rationalizing the expenditure
circuit and reducing ex-ante expenditure controls; and iii)actions and legislation to strengthen ex-
post auditing and control, including the introduction o f a bill inParliament to create regional audit
bodies (Cours des Comptes Rkgionales), and the preparation o f a bill to strengthen the audit
powers o fthe General Inspectorate o f Finance.

35.      In order to prepare the various stakeholders for the changes to come in civil service
management, the Government has prudently prepared over time studies o f the key issues and


 A region includes several provinces and prefectures (part o f a big city). Provinces and prefectures have
equivalent statuses.
  A "Royal letter" o f January 2002 gives the regional Govemors (waZis) the main role in coordinating
government services at the de-concentrated level. The same letter in particular makes the govemors
responsible for Regional Investment Centers, de-concentrated one-stop windows to facilitate private
investment.
 Such legislation includes the December 31, 2001 decree on aggregation o f appropriations, the December
25, 2001 PM's instruction (circulaire) regarding adaptation o f planning and execution o f the central
government budget to de-concentration, and the December 31, 2001 decree about control o f central
government expenditurecommitments.


                                                  10

reform options. Among those studies and reports should be mentioned: (i)comprehensive study
                                                                                   a
defining principles for civil service and administrative structures, launched in 1998; (ii)            the
"Frame o f Reference" of December 2000, which included seven main areas and objectives o f
reform and was considered by the PM's office as the framework for future civil service reform;
(iii)the publication in 2000 by the Civil Service Ministry of "The Reform of Public
Administration -Vision, Strategy and Action Plan"; and (iv) the constitutionin2001 by the PM's
office o f a Commission on Remuneration, which delivered its report in September 2002.

                        C. The Government's PresentReformProgram

36.      Based on the results and lessons o f these past efforts, the Govemment reform program
has three components: a set o f budget reforms aimed at improving the efficiency o f public
expenditure; a reform o f civil service management; and measures to keep the wage bill at a
sustainable level over the long run.

1.       Improvingthe Efficiency of Budget Management

37.      The Government will develop a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) in order
to reinforce consistency between the macroeconomic framework and the sector strategies.
Building on previous initiatives, the Government's program for budget reform focuses on
delegating responsibilities to field managers while introducing performance-related budgeting,
and streamlining compliance controls while strengthening reporting and performance auditing
and evaluation.

         (i)Strengtheningmedium-termexpenditureplanning

38.      The Government aims at establishing a three-year rolling public expenditure framework,
containing both investment and recurrent expenditures, o f an indicative nature and updated
annually, ensuring a better medium-term visibility o f the budgetary strategy bothfor the different
ministerial departments and for the fiscal framework as a whole.7 The MTEFwill be designed by
a worhng group ledby the planning department withrepresentatives from Finance and three pilot
line ministries. The objective o f the group i s to design a prototype and test it in 2005 with the
pilot ministries, to evaluate results in 2006 and then extend the MTEF to the entire budget. The
MTEF would thus evolve from a mostly macro exercise in 2003 and 2004 into a resource
allocationmechanism fully involvingsector ministries.

         (ii) Delegating responsibilitiesto field managerswhile introducingperformance-
         relatedbudgeting

39.      The Government has designed a new mechanism to give more flexibility to local
managers in the implementation o f their budgets in exchange for increased accountability for
results, Regional and provincial branch office directors will enter into contracts with their
ministry in which their operations are presented on a program-budget basis. The managers will
be authorized to shift resources between line items within a same program, provided they commit
to results, as measured by the program performance indicators. The Ministry o f Health has
already experimented the approach in2003. Four other ministries - finance, planning, agriculture
and fisheries  -- haveadopted the approach for the 2004 budget. The experience o f the five pilots
will be evaluated in 2005 and extended to a total o f 12 ministries by 2006.                At that time,



  Currently the Government prepares a yearly budget only, w h l e a 5-years plan is preparedby the planning
department. The plan deals only with capital expenditure and is not updated annually.


                                                  11

flexibility on the use o f funds will be extended to all programs within each single unit or sub-unit,
combining current and capital expenditure, with the exception o fpersonnel expenditures.

40.       Inorderto delegatemorepowersandbudgetresponsibility tobranchofficemanagers, the
Govemment has launched a process to clarify the responsibilities and powers o f the different
levels o f administration in each ministerial department. Firstly, a decree establishing common
guide-lines for the organization o f bothcentral administration and de-concentrated units has been
presented for adoption by the cabinet council.        Secondly, line ministries will design detailed
action plans to delegate budget and personnel management responsibilities to regional and
provincial directors.      These plans will be implemented once individually approved by a
committee chairedby the PM.

          (iii)Streamliningcompliancecontrolswhilestrengtheningreportingand
          performance auditingand evaluation

41.       Another key element of the reform program to increase budget flexibility and
effectiveness i s to gradually shift from ex-ante formal expenditure controls to ex-post
performance evaluations. To this end, the Govemment will: (a) ease ex-ante compliance controls
(on the basis o f the reforms already introduced regardingthe control o f expenditure commitments
as well as accounting) , (b) introduce selective rather than exhaustive control, and (c) introduce
and develop performance auditing in the internal ministerial audit structures (Ministerial
Inspectorates General or IGM).

42.       The IGMs will have to significantly increase their capacity by developing their audit
methodology and undergoingtraining inperformance audit and public policy evaluation methods.
This training effort will be spearheaded by the Inspector General o f Finance (inspection gd'ndrale
des finances, IGF) who will develop a performance auditing manual, with the assistance o f
international experts, and "mentor" their ministerial counterparts. They will first launch joint
audit exercises (in the ministries which were pilots for the program budget approach) in 2005.
Starting in2006, the IGMswill act independently.

43.       T o facilitate the improvement in auditing methods, the M o F i s developing an integrated
budgetary management system.          The overall design o f the system has been adopted and its
development will take place in 2005. A pilot implementation is scheduled for 2006, to be
evaluated and generalized in2007.

2.        Improvingthe Administration's EfficiencyinHumanResourceManagement

44.       In order to prepare for the increase in Ministries' management autonomy, de-
concentration to branch offices, and to foster improvement in civil service efficiency, the reform
program for humanresource management aims at: (i)         improving consistency between staffing and
missions within ministries; (ii)increasing transparency and equity in evaluation, remuneration,
and promotion; and (iii)    rationalizingin-service training. The specific reform areas and measures
supported under the proposed credit are as follows.

          (i)Improveconsistencybetweenstaffingandmissionswithinministries

45.       Establishing a strategic staffing framework. The Govemment intends to define for each
administration its human resource needs, including positions and skill profiles of staff. The
framework will also analyze how each administration can meet these staff and s k l l needs, given
current staffing, through continuous training, redeployment within and between administrations,
and new recruitment. This activity is the comerstone o f the civil service reform agenda since it


                                                   12

will make it possible to strengthen the career civil service system. Itwill help implement the new
policies regarding recruitment, performance evaluation, promotion, restructuring, and de-
concentration.

46.      Work on this component o f the reform program has already started with the staffing
frameworks for the Ministries o f Infrastructure and Agriculture. Based on this ongoing work as
well as international experience, completing a staffing framework requires on average two years
for a large ministry. The Government intends to launch staffing frameworks for twelve
ministries, o f which two in 2004, and complete eight o f these by 2007. Based on existing
analysis, the Government has forbidden recruitment at lower levels o f shlls (scale levels 1 to 4)
inorder to accelerate there-profiling ofthe Moroccancivil service.

47.      Changing the legalhegulatory framework and procedures for recruitment and mobility
within the civil service. This action will enact the principle o f equal and transparent recruitment
and, building on the strategic staffing results, will be based as much on shlls as on purely
academic knowledge.       To achieve this, recruitment will be competitive and authorized for
positions defined not only in terms o f shlls but also in terms o f geographical location, that i s to
serve specific geographic needs o f the administration. The legalhegulatory framework will be
revised to allow fixed-term contracts designed to hire skills needed for a limited duration.
Finally, a new law has beenprepared, amending the law governing the general statutes o f the civil
service, and setting forth the procedures applying to redeployment, secondment and transfer o f
civil servants. Mobility between ministries and locations will help improve the adaptability and
allocation o f human resources within the civil service. The Government has planned to create an
employment database with a view to putinplace an in-service e-employment market by 2005.

         (ii)Rationalizingpersonnelmanagement,whileincreasingefficiencyinevaluation,
         remuneration, and promotion

48.      The objective i s to review the staff compensation and promotion systems, linking staff
performance and career, with a view o f promoting increased efficiency o f public services. The
new system would not only improve motivation and therefore the quality o f service to the public,
it will also be the basis for a simplified, unified and coherent compensation framework
compatible with the objective o f keeping control over wage and salary costs. By introducing
flexibility in the system, it should help Government avoid social pressures for collective
compensation increases.

49.      The proposed reform would be based on the following principles: (i)      reduction o f civil
service statutes from 70 to less than 20; (ii) integration o f most bonuses and allowances into the
base salary; (iii) broad-banding o f the pay scale; (iv) greater transparency o f remuneration; and
(v) establishment o f mechanisms that will ensure regular but moderate increases, linked with
evaluation o f performances.     A decree to create a promotion system based on the agent's
performance given preset and agreed objectives has been prepared, and will be presented to
Cabinet approval in 2004. The decree will also instate percentages for promotions that will help
avoid accumulating candidates, therefore exceptional promotions. The implementation o f the
new remuneration system will require careful preparation, notably training, and the completion o f
the strategic staffing framework inthe relevant ministry.

         (iii)Rationalizingin-service training

50.      In-service training will be an important support to implement the findings o f strategic
staffing  studies.  The current system already needs rationalization in order to make sure that
training programs adequately address the needs o f the administration as well as the professional


                                                  13

development objectives o f the civil servants, and to unify some initiatives now dispersed between
ministries. A decree i s being prepared to organize the new system which should result intraining
plans inpilot ministries in2005, for an evaluation o fthe experience in2006.

3.      Keeping the Wage Billunder Control

51.     The need to control the unsustainable rise in the civil service wage bill i s a central
requirement o f the reform program. Inthe medium-term, the major civil service reforms such as
the pay and promotion reform, strategic staffing, and the culture of evaluation should
significantly facilitate the management o f the wage bill. In the short term, however, the
Govemment has adopted a number o f measures that would keep the wage billunder control inthe
interim. Among them are an early retirement mechanism, and yearly quantitative measures on
recruitment and promotion aimed at avoiding promotion bottlenecks experienced under the
current extremely restrictive system.. The setting up o f a voluntary early retirement mechanism
has been studied by the MoF on the assumption o f 20,000 to 60,000 departures.           Given the
required financial incentives, simulations show that the net budgetary savings will be modest in
the very short term but would help in some administrative units inrealigning the staff profile for
improved efficiency. The progressive eradication o f temporary positions will have a longer term
impact, by erasing a cause o f pressure for integration o f these short-term (and low-skilled)
employees into the permanent civil service. Finally, the authorities also plan to maintain the FY
2003 decision of zero net increase inthe number o f staff.

    111. THEPROPOSEDPUBLICADMINISTRATIONREFORMADJUSTMENTLOANP a )                      (

                              A. Loan Objectives andDescription

52.     The objectives o f the proposed Public Administration Reform Adjustment Loan (PARL)
are to support the Government's efforts to improve the effectiveness o f public resource
management, a key step for accelerated growth and poverty reduction. As noted before, the
program includes: (i)improving the efficiency o f budget expenditure by de-concentrating
expenditures and accountability and introducing performance budgeting and auditing; (ii)
implementing a reform o f the civil service; and (iii) ensuring a sustainable macro framework, by
controlling inter alia the magnitude of the civil service payroll.

53.     The proposed loan would be the first ina series o f annual programmatic loans supporting
the implementation o f the reform program. It i s a one-tranche operation, since the key reform
measures (see Annex Ill)have been met before Board presentation. A number o f measures have
already been taken, such as passing the decree authorizing an early-retirement procedure for civil
servants. Other key laws and decrees have already been prepared and their drafts circulated into
the administrative andpolitical approval circuit. Decisions on continuing financial support would
be based annually on meeting triggers selected among the benchmarks as indicated in the action
matrix covering 2003-2006 (see Annex IL Policy Matrix).

                                        B. LoanRationale

54.     The Govemment's program (as reflected in the Letter of Development Policy) provides
for several multiyear programs on budgetary programming, implementation, and auditing, on
civil service management and on aggregated fiscal management which will be monitored and
evaluated on a rolling basis. The Letter o f Development Policy (Annex I)        highlights the key
actions considered necessary to reach a critical threshold for this loan and the reforms and
capacity buildingto be implementedduringthe coming year.




                                                  14

55.      The proposed PARL would be the first in a series o f annual programmatic loans
sequenced according to Morocco's budget cycle. The specific actions, as spelled-out in the 2003-
2006 matrix, will provide the trigger-points for the supervision o f this Loan and the preparation o f
follow-on loans. Specific triggers for the preparation o f the next loan have been identified inthe
matrix. The Government views this Loan as a tangible sign o f the Bank's endorsement o f its
reform program, giving credibility to its efforts and formalizing the Bank's stamp o f approval.
This would help in overcoming the obstacles which have affected previous attempts at reform.
The proposed loan would also provide budgetary support to the Government, helping fund the
cost o f civil service early retirement package and other reform measures, and avoiding excessive
pressures indomestic financial markets.

56.      For the Bank, the proposed loan provides the opportunity to address issues such as the
effectiveness o f government services and the sustainability o f the fiscal framework which are
crucial to the overall country assistance strategy. The PARL i s consistent with the CAS base case
scenario, and made possible by the progress in fiscal management experienced during 2001-2003
and expected in the future. Inparticular, the combination o f actions already implemented by the
authorities and those to be implementedwith the support o f the proposed loan will ensure that the
wage bill declines significantly over the medium-term. With regardto revenues, the government
will pursue efforts at improving tax administrationandtax policy so as to maintainrevenues as a
share o f GDP at the 2003 level, a level that compares well with other middle income countries.
Declines in the wage bill as a share o f GDP and revenue measures to maintainrevenues constant
as a share o f GDP are both CAS triggers for fast disbursing adjustment lending. Finally, civil
service reform i s outstanding in many countries across the region such as Tunisia and Egypt, and
a successful program inMorocco would have a large demonstration effect inthe whole region.

                        C. Earlier BankAssistanceand LessonsLearned

57.      A Public Administration Support Project was approved in the early 1990s as a US$23
million Technical Assistance project to support the implementation o f the FY89 Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL). It covered tax administration, public expenditure programming, public
debt management, and macroeconomic and external trade analysis. It was closed inFY96. The
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) rated the outcomes as satisfactory, institutional
development impact as moderate, and project sustainability as likely.

58.      A Policy Reform Support Loan (PRES), a US$250 million SAL was approved in 1999
and closed in FY2000. It covered macroeconomic management, public sector reform, private
sector development, and social sector reform. The public sector reform component covered
improved budgetary procedures, streamlined management o f expenditures, civil service and
administrative reform to reduce the wage bill, and judicial reform. OED rated the outcome as
moderately unsatisfactory, institutional development impact as modest, and sustainability as
unlikely. Public sector reform was considered the less successful component, with the civil
service wage bill growing to 12.5 percent o f GDP in 2001. The overall program was deemed to
have beentoo unfocussed to have a major impact inany o f the areas covered.

59.      Among the lessons learned, the Implementation Completion Report mentions the need for
a tighter-knit, more carefully planned programmatic approach, with a clearer delineation o f
successive sequences o f measures as triggers for subsequent operations, to find a mechanism to
buildmore broad-based consensus, and possibly to add technical assistance inkey areas such as
civil services reform. It noted that excessive pressure was exerted on the staff in order to meet
short deadlines, probably to the detriment o f a deeper and more substantive dialogue on the many
important issues, as well as Government's ownership o f the reform agenda.



                                                  15

60.     Reflecting on the lessons o f the PRES, a participative PERwas launched in2001 with the
objective o f building ownership for reform among stakeholders. Two inter-sectoral worlung
group on respectively public expenditures management and civil service reform worked for more
than one year on reformproposals that could be adopted and implementedrapidly. Some o f their
proposals in the budget management area have been tumed into government decrees. The work
by the working group on civil service reform has contributed to new laws in preparation.
Moreover, the ownership building o f the PER paved the way for a more fruitful dialogue on
public administrationreform conducted inthe context o f a programmatic-ESW activity (P-ESW).
This activity resulted in knowledge transfer, technical assistance, and consensus building.
Knowledge transfer was provided in the areas o f civil service reform, integrated budget and
personnel management systems, performance auditing, program design and change management.
A report on the civil service reform and change management strategies was delivered to the
Govemment A seminar on performance budgeting for was carried-out inearly 2004 inRabat.

61.     The proposed loan builds on the successes o f the PER and the P-ESW, and takes into
account the lessons from the PRES inthe following ways. Firstly, the program is less ambitious,
focusing on civil service reform and improving the effectiveness o f public expenditures.
Secondly, a programmatic approach has been adopted, with a sequence o freforms scheduled over
four years, including measures taken during 2003; yearly milestones are also triggers for
subsequent one-year loans. Thirdly, consensus-building institutions have been put inplace, such
as the Supreme counsel o f civil service, which includes representatives o f trade-unions and the
Government, and has to approve all draft legislation concerning civil service management.
Finally, the need to provide technical assistance has been taken into account by continuing the P-
ESW. It i s expected that in subsequent years the P-ESW will continue to provide knowledge
transfer suitable to the reformprogram, as requestedby the authorities.

                         D. InstitutionalArrangements withGovernment

62.     The proposed Loan would be disbursed in one installment upon Loan effectiveness.
Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for Structural
Adjustment operations approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. Thus, disbursements will not
be linked to specific purchases and there will be no procurement requirements.             The local
currency counterpart generated by the proposed Loan will be used to finance the Budget. Ifthe
proceeds o f the Loan are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to directly finance items importedfrom
non-member countries, or to directly finance goods and services on the Bank's standard negative
list), JBRD will require the Borrower to either: (i) that amount for use on eligible
                                                           return
purchases; or (ii)   refund the amount directly to IBRD, in which case IBRD will cancel an
equivalent un-disbursed amount o f the Loan. Although an audit o f the use o f funds may not be
required, IBRDreserves the right to require audits at any time.

63.     The Loan's administration will be the responsibility of the Ministry o f Finance.
Coordination and monitoring o f the implementation o f the reform will be supported by the Inter-
ministerial steering committee for the administrative reform, worlung through its permanent
secretariat provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and General Affairs. This Committee
was created inearly 2003 by a decision o f the PM.

                               E. Coordinationwithother Donors

64.     At the request o fGovemment, this operation has beenpreparedjointly with the European
Commissionwhich participatedinall missions and preparedjoint aide-memoires with Bank staff.
The matrix and list o f conditions and trigger points are common to the two institutions. The EU
also participated in the negotiations, and endorsed the negotiations results.          The European


                                                 16

Commission envisages a Structural Adjustment Grant, with yearly tranches articulated along the
2004-2006 matrix o f actions, and with disbursement conditions coinciding generally with the
yearly trigger-points o fthe Bank's programmatic loan.

65.     IMF staff have discussed the macro framework with Bank staff and are generally
comfortable with the macro-framework underlying the proposed operation. An assessment letter
has been provided to that effect.

                                      F. BenefitsandRisks

66.     Benefits. By addressing the key constraints affecting the effectiveness o f public service
delivery, the proposed operation would contribute to the key goals o f private sector development
and poverty reduction.     By helping keep the wage bill under control, it will help ensure
macroeconomic stability. It would help provide the practical budgetary framework necessary to
implement the Government's administrative decentralization orientation. From the Bank's point
o f view, this operation would provide an example across the region o f how to address these
important issues.

67.     Risks. One important risk i s that the Government would not be able to resist pressures to
increase salaries for various categories o f civil servants, and significantly undermine the
improvement inthe fiscal balance that allowed us to move to the base case CAS scenario. This
risk is being mitigated by the reform program itself, combined with the reformist stamp o f the
new Government. Another riski s that the implementationo f the reforms would be stalled, as was
the case in the past, because o f the silo mentality in Government and opposition from interest
groups. The risk i s mitigated by the political coordination put in place by the new Cabinet to
implement reforms, and also by the strategic policy dialogue pursued between Moroccan
authorities and the Bank. Also, we are planning, along with key partners, extensive supervision
o f the implementation of the reforms, together with the knowledge sharing and technical
assistance entailed by a continuationo fthe programmatic ESW operation.




                                                17

      Royaume du Maroc



',I
  i- 5 4 1/E
                 MONSIEUR LE PRESIDENT
               DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
         1818 H Street .N.W Washington. D.C. 20433

                                                      -U.S.A-


 Obiet : Lettre de politique de dkveloppement relative h la stratkgie de
          rkforme de I'administration publique.

       Monsieur le Prisident,

       La rkforme de I'Etat est devenue une exigence impkrative dans un
contexte international marquk par I'ouverture des marchks, I'accklkration du
processus de mondialisation des kchanges, la compktition des kconomies et
I'expansion des nouvelles technologies de I'information et de la communication.
Ces mutations de I'environnement international constituent des dkf is h relever h
la fois par les kconomies des pays avancks et davantage encore par celles des
pays en voie de dkveloppement. C'est dans cette perspective que le
gouvernement marocain a engagk des rkformes profondes pour adapter les
structures kconomiques et sociales du pays et son environnement institutionnel,
juridique e t administratif aux changements en cours et pour rkpondre aux
besoins pressants du dkveloppement social et de la promotion de I'emploi. La
modernisation de la gestion publique, et en particulier la rkforme de
I'administration publique marocaine s'inscrivent      dans ce mouvement de
rkformes.

       Dans ce cadre, le gouvernement s'est attach6 d'une part h mettre en place
une administration dont iI veut rkformer les structures, simplifier les
prockdures, renforcer les performances et amkliorer la qualitk des prestations
fournies en faveur du public et de I'entreprise et d'autre part h crker un
environnement favorable h I'investissement par I'allkgement des contraintes
rkglementaires la rkalisation    les infrastructures physiques nkcessaires au
dkroulement normal de I'activitk kconomique et la mise h niveau de I'kconomie
et de I'entreprise pour en renforcer la compktitivitk.

        En effet, la rkforme de I'administration figure parmi les objectifs
prioritaires retenus dans les dkclarations gouvernementales de Monsieur le
Premier Ministre devant le Parlement. Les efforts entrepris h ce titre
s'inscrivent dans le cadre de la stratkgie gouvernementale qui s'inspire des
Hautes Orientations Royales pour faire de I'Administration un vecteur de
dkveloppement intkgrk et ce conformkment au nouveau concept de I'autoritk.
Cette stratkgie est de nature h fixer les grandes lignes d'une rdforme destinke
hmettre en place une Administration plus performante rkpondant aux exigences
d'efficacitk et de qualitk des prestations rendues aux usagers.

        En outre, le gouvernement a adopt6 le pacte de bonne gestion appelk h
servir de cadre de rkfkrence pour moraliser I'administration, rationaliser la
gestion    publique   et   renforcer    la communication e t       I'ouverture  de
I'Administration sur son environnement tout en veillant h I'application des Hautes
Orientations Royales relatives h la mise en place et 21 la consolidation de la
dkconcentration, de la dkcentralisation et de la rkgionalisation.

I)- delastratigiederiformeadministrative
     Objectifs

      La stratkgie retenue par le gouvernement pour la rkforme de
I'Administration s'articule autour des principaux objectifs ci-aprks :

0  disposer d'une administration moderne qui puisse contribuer h la compktitivitk
   et au dkveloppement durable du pays tout en assurant la viabilitd h moyen
   terme de son cadre macro-kconomique. En effet, I'Administration est appelke h
   jouer un r81e moteur pour I'attraction des investissements et la facilitation de
   I'intervention du secteur privk h travers notamment I'assouplissement des
   prockdures et I'amklioration du climat de I'entreprise en relation avec la
   rkforme de la justice pour consolider davantage I'Etat de droit ;

0  assurer des prestations de meilleure qualitk et au moindre cofit. Dans ce
   cadre, I'Administration est       appelke h renforcer I'eff icacitk de son
   intervention et rationaliser ses dkpenses h travers un dispositif budgktaire
   novateur bask, d'une part, sur la responsabilisation des gestionnaires en
   contrepartie de leur engagement sur la rkalisation d'objectifs prkdkf inis et
   I'kvaluation de leur rkalisation au regard des dkpenses exkcutkes et d'autre
   part, le dkveloppement du contr8le axk sur la performance et la reddition des
   comptes ;

0  dkvelopper    et  renforcer    le processus de dkcentralisation et de
   dkconcentration nkcessaire h la mise en place d'une gestion de proximitk de la
   chose publique en phase avec les prkoccupations des populations, A ce titre,
   la dkconcentration constitue     un principe fondamental dans le processus
   d'organisation et de rkpartition des attributions entre les diffkrents services
   de I'administration ;


                                         2

  i0  dkvelopper les outils du gouvernement en ligne en vue de favoriser I'acchs du
      public aux informations sur le budget et aux services administratifs ;

   0  rkaffirmer le r61e stratkgique de la gestion des ressources humaines en tant
      que vecteur d'une administration moderne, ef ficiente, responsable et
      citoyenne consolidant leurs capacitts en vue de s'assumer comme force
      contributive dans la dynamique des rkformes. Les grands axes de cette
      politique dont la mise en Oeuvre assurera la mal'trise de la masse salariale se
      focaliseront autour de la recherche d'une meilleure adkquation entre profils
      et emplois dans le cadre d'une politique soutenable de gestion des ressources
      humaines bashe essentiellement sur la compktence et le mkrite, la
      responsabilisation accrue des gestionnaires pour amkliorer la performance de
      I'administrationet la poursuite de I'amkliorationdes services aux citoyens.

         Pour concrktiser ces objectifs, la rkforme de I'administration engagke par
   le Gouvernement comprend des actions structurelles et institutionnelles qui
   permettront d'amkliorer h moyen et long terme I'efficience de la fonction
   publique et des dkpenses publiques et contribueront ainsi aux efforts du
   gouvernement h mal'triser le dkficit budgktaire dans un cadre de stabilitk
   financitre h moyen terme. Cette rkforme comprend kgalement des mesures h
   court terme tendant h renforcer la viabilitk du cadre macrokconomique,
   notamment la mal'trise de la masse salariale.

If)- Les principaux axes de la strattgie de rtforme administrative et
   leur dkclinaison en actions et mesures h rhaliser h moyen terme.

           Pour la rtalisation des objectifs prkcitks de la strattgie de rtforme, les
   axes prioritaires retenus portent sur :
           -  I'amklioration de I'efficacitk dans la programmation et I'exkcution du
   budget en tant qu'instrument essentiel h la disposition du gouvernement pour
   contribuer h la concrktisation de ses objectifs de dkveloppement kconomique e t
   social et h la conduite de I'action de restructuration et d'assainissement du
   secteur public ;
           - la  modernisation des outils de gestion des ressources humaines et
         I'amkliorationde I'efficacitk de I'action administrative.

         2- 1)- Amtlioration de I'efficacit6 de I'administration dans la gestion
                 budgttaire.
         Cette amklioration      concerne les principales composantes du cycle de
   gestion du budget et vise notamment 21              renforcer   les mCthodes de
   programmation budgktaire et accroTtre I'eff icacitk et la transparence dans
   I'exkcution et le contr6le de la dkpense.


                                             3

       2.1.1) Renforcement des mithodes de programmation

     a)- L'amilioration de la programmation budgitaire:

     Celle-ci repose sur I'klaboration d'un cadre de dkpense h moyen terme
(CDMT) intkgrant et mettant en cohkrence le cadre macrokconomique et le
cadre budgktaire, sur une base triennale glissante. Cet instrument permettra
d'assurer une meilleure prkdictibilitk e t flexibilitk dans I'allocation des
ressources publiques et une meilleure visibilitk tant interne que vis-h-vis des
partenaires externes sur l'kvolution des dkpenses publiques et leur compatibilitk
avec I'objectif de maTtrise du dkficit budgktaire.

     En outre, une commission composke des dkpartements du Plan et de la
Prkvision Economique, des Finances et de la Privatisation et de trois ministbres
pilotes   mknera une rkflexion pour proposer une approche de programmation et
d'arbitrage intersectoriel permettant d'assurer la soutenabilitk      du Plan de
Dkveloppement Economique et Social au regard des possibilitks financibres de
I'Etat en adkquation avec un cadre macrokconomique viable ainsi que le lien entre
ledit Plan et le cadre de dkpense h moyen terme e t leur dkclinaison dans le cadre
de la loi de finances et ce, dans la perspective de :
     - concilier entre, d'une part, les objectifs de dkveloppement sectoriel et les
programmes de rkforme engagks par le gouvernement et d'autre part, les
impkratifs de prkservation des kquilibres fondamentaux et de maTtrise du
dkf icit budgktaire ;
      - donner une meilleure visibilitk aux dkpartements ministkriels en matibre
de programmation budgktaire pluriannuelle et de leur fournir les outils et les
instruments h mSme de contribuer h la mise en Oeuvre du dispositif de
contractualisation des objectifs et des moyens dans un cadre budgktaire
triennal. Ces instruments permettront de renforcer davantage le processus de
dkconcentration des crkdits au prof it notamment des gestionnaires territoriaux
et de confkrer h ces derniers plus de responsabilitk, de souplesse et d'autonomie
dans la gestion des crkdits en vue de rkaliser les objectifs prkalablement fixks.

     Cette approche, une fois validke, sera mise en Oeuvre au cours de I'annke
2005 h titre expkrimental au sein des dkpartements ministkriels pilotes
sus-indiquks et puis sera gknkraliske aprbs kvaluation h I'ensemble des
dkpartements ministkriels h partir de 2006.

     En tout ktat de cause, I'amklioration de la programmation         budgktaire
requiert le renforcement des capacitks de programmation des administrations
selon des dkmarches participative et ascendante permettant la concrktisation
des objectifs de dkveloppement sectoriel et leur dkclinaison en programmes et
actions en tenant compte des possibilitks de financement de I'Etat et en


                                          4

diversif iant, le cas kchkant, les possibilitks de financement desdits programmes
et actions notamment par le recours au partenariat public/privk.

     b)- La mise en place d'une gestion budgttaire axte sur les rtsultats et
        fond6e sur la responsabilisationdes gestionnaires

     La gestion axke sur           les rksultats, rkpondant aux objectifs      de
dkconcentration, s'inscrit dans une dtmarche comprenant I'application du
dispositif de la globalisation des crkdits, assortie de la contractualisation des
relations entre les administrations centrales et leurs services dkconcentrks.
Cette action de rkforme qui conduira h I'ktablissement des budgets programmes
explicitant les rksultats attendus de I'action administrative mesurks par des
indicateurs permettant de suivre les rkalisations tend, d'une part, h donner une
plus grande souplesse aux gestionnaires budgktaires en contrepartie d'une plus
large responsabilitk par I'exigence de rksultats et d'autre part, h rendre compte
et kvaluer I'eff icacitk de la dkpense publique.

     Ainsi, la globalisation des crkdits vise h octroyer aux services dkconcentrks
plus de souplesse dans I'utilisation des crkdits qui leur sont dklkguks pour la
rkalisation de programmes , projets ou actions homogtnes en contrepartie de
leur engagement h rkaliser des objectifs prkdkfinis mesurks par des indicateurs
de performance.

      Le corollaire de cette dkmarche est le transfert de responsabilitk en
direction des services dkconcentrks de facon h situer chaque type de dkcision au
niveau pertinent pour sa meilleure adaptation aux besoins et une plus grande
efficacitk   des interventions. A cet effet, des schkmas directeurs de
dkconcentration seront dkveloppks e t mis en o2uvre progressivement par les
dkpartements ministkriels.

     Aprts la mise en oeuvre, h titre expkrimental du dispositif de globalisation
au profit du ministare de la Santk et son application au profit de quatre autres
dkpartements ministkriels (Agriculture, P&he maritime, Plan et Finances), iI est
envisagk, en 2004, I'adhksion de 7 ministkres h ce dispositif. En outre, sur la
base des rksultats d'kvaluation du dispositif de globalisation en 2005, ce
dispositif sera gtnkralisk h tous les ministares et ktendu h I'article h partir de
I'exercice budgktaire 2007.

     Ces rkformes entraheront           le renforcement    de la programmation
ascendante dans les diffkrents dkpartements ministkriels dans le cadre de la
mise    en    oeuvre    des    << budgets-programmes triennaum,    conclus   entre
I'administration centrale et ses services dkconcentrks, af in de mieux intkgrer les
besoins exprimks au niveau local, e t d'assurer davantage d'efficacitt de la
dkpense publique.



                                           5

     2.1.2)- Efficaciti et transparence dans I'exicution et le contr6le de la
            dipense

          La nouvelle orientation qui sous-tend la rkforme de I'administration
publique entraine I'accroissement de I'efficacitk et de la transparence dans
I'exkcutionet le contrSle de la dkpense publique et I'adaptation de la fonction de
contrSle. Celle-ci doit nkcessairement viser I'allkgement du contr6le de
conformitk et le renforcement du contrSle de gestion ax6 sur I'amklioration
continue de la performance et la reddition des comptes. Cette kvolution du
contrSle est dkveloppke selon une vision intkgrke favorisant la coordination
entre les diffkrents acteurs dans la chaine de contrSle.

     a)-L'accroissement de I'efficaciti et de la transparence du circuit de
        la dipense publique avec notamment:
     -  Le dkploiement d'un systkme de gestion intkgrke de la dkpense de I'Etat
(GID),   en vue de rationaliser    et de    simplifier davantage les prockdures
d'exkcution de la dkpense publique      h travers notamment I'klimination des
saisies multiples des opkrations y affkrentes    et I'adoption du principe de la
saisie unique, d'accklkrer le traitement des actes qui sont liks h la dkpense,
d'assurer la concordance 21 tout moment entre les comptabilitks des diffkrents
intervenants et enfin accklkrer le processus d'klaboration des lois de rkglement.
     - La recherche d'une meilleure formalisation des prockdures et d'une
mutualisation de I'information au sein de la chahe de la dkpense (meilleure
formation des services gestionnaires, rkdaction de manuels de prockdures) ;
     -  La recherche d'une transparence accrue de la dkpense par le
dkveloppement de I'administration en ligne h travers notamment la rkalisation
d'un site Internet dkdik h la commande publique pour centraliser I'information
sur les appels d'offres     et les rksultats d'attribution de marchks            et
I'amklioration de I'information relative h la programmation e t 21      I'exkcution
budgktaire communiquke aux citoyens. Cette mesure tend h renf orcer la
transparence par la clarification des prockdures administratives et h assurer un
meilleur accks h la commande publique, gtnkrateur de gains d'efficience et une
meilleure information des citoyens sur le fonctionnement des services publics et
le programme d'action des dkpartements ministkriels.

b)-   L'amilioration de la performance et de la gouvernance par la
reconfiguration de la cha7ne de contr6le.

        La mise en Oeuvre d'une gestion orientke vers les rksultats nkcessite le
dkveloppement au sein de I'Administration de la conception du contr6le de
performance en relation avec tous les acteurs de la dkpense publique en vue de



                                        6

rkaliser   des audits en termes d'efficacitk et d'efficience de la dkpense
publique.

      Cette nouvelle vision requiert :
        - I'allkgement progressif des prockdures de contrSle a priori rksultant
des rtformes dkjh apportkes h I'exercice du contrSIe des engagements de
dkpenses dont la mise en Oeuvre sera accompagnke par l'ktablissement de manuel
de prockdures et I'organisation de programmes de formation ;

        -le renforcement des capacitks d'audit de performance sur I'ensemble
de la chahe de contrSle. Dans ce cadre, les Inspections Gknkrales des
Ministkres avec I'appui de I'Inspection Gtnkrale des Finances prockderont, apr8s
renforcement de leur capacitk, h I'audit de I'exkcution des budgets des
administrations au regard des indicateurs de performance ;

      -   une meilleure coordination entre les organes de contrSleen termes
d'kchange d'expkriences et d'information.

      2.2)-L'amClioration de I'eff icacitC de I'administration dans la gestion
des ressources humaines.

   Le gouvernement du Maroc considkre que la rkforme administrative passe par
la confirmation du rSle stratkgique de la gestion des ressources humaines en
tant que pilier de toute la dynamique du changement prkconisk. A cet effet, la
rkforme, rkpartie en des actions h court, moyen e t long termes s'articulera
autour des principaux axes ci-aprks dkf inis:

     a)- La recherche d'une meilleure adhquation entre les profils des
     effectifs et les besoins exprimCs ou projetCs.

   La gestion prCvisionnelle des ressources humaines : La mise en place des
rkfkrentiels des emplois e t des compktences, pour I'ensemble des dkpartements
ministkriels, sera rkaliske, sous la responsabilitk du ministkre chargt de la
modernisation des secteurs publics (MMSP), par des kquipes de projets au sein
de chaque ministkre. Cette opkration sera rkaliske de facon progressive sur
quatre ans h compter de 2004, h raison de quelques nouveaux ministkres par an
de facon h couvrir 80% des effectifs globaux h partir de 2006. Cette opkration
suppose I'existence d'une base de donndes des agents au sein des administrations
concernkes, la prise en charge de la nomenclature des emplois dans
I'administration par le MMSP h partir de 2004 de facon h suivre leur kvolution,
ainsi que I'analyse fonctionnelle prtalable des structures des ministkres
concernks. L'exploitation de cette analyse permettra de dkgager               les


                                        7

r    r




       compktences nkcessaires h I'occupation des postes de travail des ministkres, les
       postes e t agents h redkployer, et, par la suite, d'identifier les comphtences que
       les titulaires de ces postes devront mai'triser.

          La qualification des ressources humaines: Plusieurs mesures contribueront
       h rkaliser cet objectif, par I'adaptation du cadre juridique et du systkme de
       gestion du recrutement dans la fonction publique en 2003/2004. Elles
       conjugueront le respect de I'kgalitk d'accks h I'emploi public dans des conditions
       de transparence avec la recherche de profils ciblks permettant d'avoir des
       nouveaux agents adaptks h l'kvolution des missions de I'administration e t le
       rehaussement de la qualification prof essionnelle. Le concours et la prksklection
       constitueront le mode normal de recrutement autorisk pour le personnel de
       I'Etat. Les modalitks y affkrentes seront organiskes en prkcisant les profils
       professionnels recherchks et les affectations gkographiques des nouveaux
       recrutks. Les emplois dans les kchelles 1h 4 seront progressivement rksorbks
       par I'interdiction de tout nouveau recrutement dans ces catkgories. L'emploi
       d'occasionnels sera Cgalement klimink par I'absorption des employ& actuels dans
       la fonction publique et I'interdiction h partir de 2004 de tout nouveau
       recrutement sous ce rkgime. Enfin, la possibilitk de conclure des contrats h
       durke dkterminke pour permettre h I'administration de rkaliser des projets
       nkcessitant une expertise particulikre n'existant pas dans les eff ectifs actuels
       sera ouverte.

          La mobiliti des ressources humaines : La mise en place des prockdures
       incitatives au redkploiement se justif ie par le choix strattgique de la
       dkconcentration et permet de corriger les dkskquilibres de la rkpartition
       spatiale et/ou sectorielle des effectifs sans avoir h prockder systkmatiquement
       h de nouveaux recrutements. Les simplifications des prockdures de dktachement
       en vue d'en faire un klkment opkrationnel h mEme de renforcer la mobilitk des
       fonctionnaires et de rkpondre aux besoins de I'administration et la mise en place
       de la prockdure novatrice de la << mise h disposition>> facilitent la mobilitk des
       fonctionnaires sans rkfkrence aux conditions spkcif iques de rkmunkration,
       vkritable frein h la mobilitk, participent de ce m8me processus. Une banque de
       donnkes sera crkke et sera disponible sur le site Internet du MMSP au plus tard
       au cours de 2005 afin d'ouvrir une bourse des emplois, permettant la mise en
       regard des postes ouverts et des personnels h re-dkployer.

             b) L'amilioration de I'eff icaciti du systtme de promotion, d'ivaluation
       et de rimunkration dans un contexte de ma?trise de la masse salariale

          Les mkcanismes de rkmunkration, de promotion et d'kvaluation au sein de la
       fonction publique constituent des klkments clks de motivation et d'eff icacitk
       dans un systkme davantage orientk sur la rkcompense de I'effort et de la
       performance. Les rkfkrentiels des emplois et des compktences constituent un

                                                8

 des klkments fondamentaux de la construction du nouveau systkme de
'rkmunkration dans la fonction publique.

    Pour faciliter la prise en compte des rksultats de ces rkfkrentiels, la
 simplification et I'harmonisation des statuts particuliers de la fonction publique
 seront nkcessaires. Ceux-ci seront agrkgks h partir de I'annke 2004 afin d'en
 rkduire le nombre et de faciliter la classification des emplois dans la
 nomenclature klaborke par le MMSP au fur et h mesure des rksultats des
 rkfkrentiels.

    L'achkvement de ces rkfkrentiels e t la mise en adtquation des emplois et
 compktences qui doit en rksulter, par la mise en Oeuvre du redkploiement des
 fonctionnaires, constitue un prkalable h la refonte du systkme de rkmunkration.

    Les travaux d'klaboration d'un nouveau systkme de rkmunkration seront
 lancks h partir de 2005 pour les familles d'emplois pour lesquelles les
 rkfkrentiels des emplois et compktences seront disponibles.

    Pour accro?tre la performance des cadres et des agents de la fonction
 publique une politique et des prockdures d'kvaluation du rendement seront mises
 sur pied en 2004/2005. Elles permettront en outre d'identifier les besoins de
 formation dans une perspective de mise h niveau des compktences, de favoriser
 la mobilitk, la promotion et kventuellement de rendre plus kquitable la
 dktermination des rkmunkrations.        Elle contribuera aussi h accroTtre la
 motivation des agents en inskrant leur performance individuelle dans la
 performance de leur administration.

    Parallklement, de nouvelles prockdures de promotion conciliant la motivation
 des agents et I'amklioration de l'efficacitk du service public seront mises en
 place. La principale novation en la matikre consiste h privilkgier la promotion par
 voie d'examens d'aptitude professionnelle et I'kvaluation systkmatique de la
 performance des agents, combink avec davantage de fluiditk par I'institution de
 quotas annuels. A partir de 2005, 22% des promouvables seront promus chaque
 annke, dont 11%seront choisis par moyen d'un examen d'aptitude professionnel
 et 11%par le moyen d'une &valuationde performance.

      c) Dkveloppement de la politique de formation continue

    La mise en place d'une politique cohkrente de formation continue reposera sur
 des schkmas ministkriels ktablis h partir d'une Ctude des besoins de formation
 continue des cadres et agents dans les mktiers communs. Elle deviendra un outil
 essentiel pour combler I'kcart entre les prof its existants e t ceux nkcessaires
 pour relever les dkfis futurs relevks par les rkfkrentiels des emplois et des

                                          9

compktences, accompagner la mobilitk fonctionnelle, faciliter les promotions,
enrichir la carrikre des cadres et agents et de contribuer h la diffusion d'une
culture de gestion par rksultats.

     d) MaTtrise de la masse salariale

     Des efforts ont ktk dkployks h partir de 2002 pour maitriser la masse
salariale h travers notamment la limitation des crkations de postes budgktaires
au nombre de dkparts h la retraite pour limite d'6ge. Cet effort sera poursuivi
en 2004-2006. Les mesures structurelles dnumkrkes ci-dessus permettront une
meilleure gestion de la masse salariale sur le long terme en accord avec des
objectif s de dkveloppement des ressources humaines.

    Le dispositif de prk-retraite envisagk, du fait de son impact structure1 et h
terme, dkcoulant de la suppression des postes libkrks et de I'interdiction de
recruter dans le secteur public du personnel mis en prk-retraite, aura un impact
sur I'attknuation de la croissance de la masse salariale. I I permettra aussi de
renforcer le re-profilage de la fonction publique et d'amkliorer son efficacitk, en
raison de la rkduction sklective du nombre de fonctionnaires, notamment ceux
classks dans les kchelles basses et intermkdiaires.

     111)- Modalitksde pilotage et de suivi de la mise en aeuvre du
            programme de &forme.

      Le pilotage et le suivi de la mise en euvre de ce Programme de Rkforme de
I'Administration Publique ont kt6 confiCs par Monsieur le Premier Ministre h une
commission interministkrielle prksidke par Monsieur le ministre ddlkguk auprks
du Premier Ministre chargk des Affaires Economiques, des Affaires GCnkrales
e t de la Mise h Niveau de I'Economie.


     Cette commission qui regroupe des reprksentants             des dkpartements
ministkriels chargks de la Modernisation des Secteurs Publics, de I'Equipement
et du Transport, de I'Agriculture, de I'Intkrieur, de la Santk e t des Finances et
de la Privatisation est chargke d'assurer le suivi e t I'kvaluation de la rkalisation
des actions retenues dans le cadre du programme de rkforme, de formuler les
recommandations h       mzme d'en maximiser        les impacts pour faire         de
I'Administration un vdritable facteur        de compdtitivitk et d'assurer         la
coordination avec les diffkrentes commissions interministkrielles institukes au
niveau du Premier Ministre et chargkes de la conduite des autres actions de
reiforme de I'administration publique.




                                          10

<     En outre et en vue d'assurer le suivi rkgulier de la rkalisation des actions
 retenues dans le cadre dudit programme, des reprksentants seront dksignks au
 niveau de chacun des dkpartements chargks de la Modernisation des Secteurs
 Publics, des Affaires Gknkrales et des Finances pour faire le point
 pkriodiquement sur I'ktat d'avancement de la mise en ceuvre desdites actions et
 prkparer des rapports d'ktape h la commission prkcitke.

      Le gouvernement est conscient de la nkcessitd de rallier un consensus
 autour des objectifs et des modalitks de la &forme.      A cet effet, iI entend
 klaborer, dans les meilleurs dklais, une stratkgie de communication et de
 << gestion du changement >> autour du programme de rkforme.


      Tout en vous remerciant pour votre appui en vue de la rkalisation de cet
 important programme de rkforme de I'Administration Publique Marocaine, j e vous
 prie de croire, Monsieur le Prisident, h I'expression de ma considkration
 distinguke.




                                         11

                                                                                          ANNEX I
                                                                                      Page 1of 8

Kingdomo f Morocco

THEPRESIDENT OF THEWORLD BANK
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433


Subject: Letter ofDevelopmentPolicyon strategic reformofthe public administration


Dear Mr.President,

The reform o f the State has become absolutely essential in an international context characterized
by the opening o f markets, the accelerating globalization o f trade, competition between
economies, and the spread o f new information and communication technologies. These changes
in the international environment constitute challenges not only for the more advanced countries
butalso, and to an even greater extent, to developing countries. Itis from this perspectivethat the
Moroccan government has undertaken in-depth reforms to adapt the country's economic and
social structures and its institutional, legal and administrative environment to the changes now
underway and to meet the pressing needs for social development and employment creation. The
modernizationo f public sector management, and inparticular the reform o f the Moroccan public
administration, are an integralpart o f this reformmovement.

The government i s committed to establishing an administration in which structures are reformed,
procedures are simplified, performance is enhanced, and the quality o f services to the public and
to business i s improved. At the same time it seeks to create a favorable investment climate by
easing administrative constraints, providing the physical infrastructure necessary to the normal
conduct o f economic activity, and enhancing the competitiveness o f the country's economy and
businesses.

Administrative reform has indeedbeen cited as a priority objective inthe Prime Minister's policy
statements to Parliament. Efforts undertaken in this regard are consistent with the government
strategy indicated in the Royal Guidelines for making the administration a vector for integrated
development, consistent with the new concept o f authority. This strategy sets out the broad
features o f a reform intended to make public administration more responsive to the demands o f
efficiency and quality inproviding services to users.

Moreover, the government has adopted a Good Management Pact that will serve as a frame of
reference for improving ethics in government, rationalizing public management, strengthening
communication and making government more open to its environment, while ensuring
application o f the Royal Guidelines for implementing and strengthening deconcentration,
decentralization and regionalization.

                                                                                           ANNEX I
                                                                                        Page 2 of 8

I.Objectivesoftheadministrativereformstrategy

The strategy adopted by the government for reforming the public administration focuses on the
following main objectives:


    0   To provide a modem administration that can contribute to the country's competitiveness
        and its sustainable development, while maintaining the viability o f its macroeconomic
        framework over the medium term. The government is called upon to play a leading role
        in attracting investment and facilitating private sector activity, in particular by
        streamlining procedures, improving the business climate, and reforming the justice
        system in order to further consolidate the rule o f law.


    0   To ensure the provision o f services of better quality and at lower cost. Inthis context, the
        govemment i s called upon to make its interventions more efficient and to rationalize its
        expenditures through a new and innovative budget system based, on the one hand, on
        empowering managers while making them accountable for achieving predefined
        objectives, and evaluating the achievement o f those objectives in light of actual
        expenditures, and on the other hand, on the development o f performance and
        accountability controls.


    0   To develop and reinforce the process o f decentralization and deconcentration needed to
        bring public management closer to the people and ensure that it is in phase with their
        concerns.     De-concentration therefore constitutes a fundamental principle in the
        organization and distribution o f powers and responsibilities among the various
        departments and agencies of govemment.


    0   To develop the tools o f e-government inorder to enhance public access to information on
        the budget and to administrative services.


    0   To reaffirm the strategic role o f human resources management in achieving a modem,
        efficient, responsible and publicly accountable administration, so as to ensure that human
        resources have the capacity to contribute dynamically to the reform process. The main
        themes of this policy, the effect o f which will be to control the public payroll, will focus
        on achieving a better match between candidate profiles andjob requirements, as part o f a
        sustainable policy o f human resources management based essentially on competence and
        merit, increased responsibility for managers in improving the administration's
        performance, and further efforts to enhance the quality of public services.

To achieve these objectives, the administrative reform undertaken by the govemment includes
structural and institutional steps that, over the medium and long term, will make the civil service
and public expenditure more efficient and thereby contribute to the government's efforts to
control the budget deficit within a stable medium-term financial fi-amework.       This reform also
includes short-term measures to make the macroeconomic framework more sustainable,
particularly by controlling the public payroll.

                                                                                             ANNEXI
                                                                                         Page 3 of 8

11. The main themes of the administrative reform strategy and actions and measures to
implementthem over the mediumterm

To achieve the above-cited objectives o fthe reform strategy, the government i s givingpriority to:


    0   improving the efficiency o f its budget programming and execution as an essential tool for
        achieving its economic and social objectives and for pursuing the restructuring and
        reform o f the public sector,


    0   modemizing its human resources management tools and makmg public administration
        operationally more efficient.

2.1 Improvingthe efficiencyof the governmentwithrespectto budgetmanagement

This improvement involves all the major components o f the budget management cycle, with
particular emphasis on strengthening budget programming methods and bringing greater
efficiency and transparency to expenditure execution and control.

2.1.1. Strengtheningprogrammingmethods

a) Improvingbudgetprogramming

This measure calls for introducing a medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) that will
cover the macroeconomic framework and the budget framework in a coherent manner on a three-
year rollingbasis. This tool will allow for greater predictability and flexibility inthe allocation o f
public resources, and greater visibility, both domestically and vis-a-vis external partners, in the
trend o fpublic spending and its compatibility with the objectives o f controlling the budget deficit.

Moreover, a commission consisting o f the Planning and Economic Forecasting Department, the
Finance Department, and three pilot ministries, will consider and propose an approach to
programming and inter-sectoral arbitration that will guarantee the sustainability of the Economic
and Social Development Plan, with due regard to the government's financial capacity and the
maintenance o f a viable macroeconomic framework, as well as the maintenance o f the link
between that plan and the medium-term expenditure framework, and their treatment inthe budget
law, with a view to:


    0    Reconciling sectoral development objectives and the reform programs undertaken by the
         government with the imperatives o f preserving a fundamental fiscal balance and
         controlling the budget deficit.


    0    Giving greater visibility to ministerial departments in terms o f multiyear budget
         programming, and equipping them with the necessary tools and instruments for
         implementingthe new arrangement whereby they will enter into contracts to achieve their
         objectives -- with the means available to them  --within a three-year budget framework.
         These tools will further strengthen the process of de-concentrating appropriations to the
         benefit, in particular, o f regional managers, who will be given greater responsibility,
         flexibility and autonomy inmanaging their appropriations so as to achieve the previously
         fixed objectives.

                                                                                            ANNEX I
                                                                                         Page 4 of 8

Once this approach is validated, it will be implemented in 2005 on an experimental basis in the
pilot ministerial departments indicated above, and it will then be extended, after proper
evaluation, to all ministerial departments as o f 2006.

In any case, improving budget programming will require greater programming capacity within
administrations, based on participatory and bottom-up approaches for establishing sectoral
development objectives and translating them into programs and activities, with due regard to the
government's financial possibilities, while diversifying, as necessary, the funding sources for
those programs and activities, through public-private partnerships inparticular.

b) Introducing results-based budget management and making managers accountable

Results-basedmanagement, consistent with the objectives o f de-concentration, will be introduced
as part o f an initiative that includes the provision o f lump-sumappropriations, together with a
contractual relationshipbetween central administrations and their de-concentrated agencies. This
reform, which will lead to the establishment o f program budgets that explicitly spell out the
expected results, measured by performance monitoring indicators, will give budget managers
greater flexibility together with more responsibility for achieving results, and will also bring
greater accountability to public expenditure and make it easier to evaluate its effectiveness.

The aim in providing lump-sum appropriations i s to give de-concentrated agencies more
flexibility in using their appropriations for programs, projects or similar activities, while at the
same time committing them to achieve predefined objectives measured by specific performance
indicators.

As a consequence o f this approach, responsibility will be transferred to the de-concentrated
agencies, with the result that decisions o f every kind will be made at the level best suited to
meeting actual needs and to ensuring effective interventions. To this end, de-concentration plans
will be prepared for gradual implementationby ministerial departments.

Lump-sumappropriations were introduced on an experimental basis for the Ministry o f Health,
and are now being implemented in four other ministerial departments (Agriculture, Marine
Fisheries, Planning, and Finance). It i s planned to extend this arrangement to a total of seven
ministries inthe course o f 2004. The results o f the arrangement will be evaluated in2005, with a
view to extending it to all ministries, and applying it infull as o f fiscal year 2007.

These reforms will reinforce bottom-up programming in the various ministerial departments, as
part o f the implementation o f "three-year program budgets" negotiated between the central
administration and the de-concentrated agencies, so as to take better account o f the needs
expressed at the local level and guarantee greater effectiveness inpublic spending.

2.1.2. Efficiency and transparency inexpenditure execution and control

The new policy underlying the public administration reform aims to enhance the efficiency and
transparency o fpublic expenditure execution and control and to reformthe control function. This
should necessarily lead to an easing o f compliance controls and a strengthening o f management
controls, based on continuous improvement inperformance and accountability. This shift inthe

                                                                                        Annex I
                                                                                      Page 5 of 8

focus o f control reflects an integrated approach to promoting coordination among the various
players inthe chain o f control.

a) Increasing the efficiency and transparency of the public expenditure cycle by:


    0   Introducing a system o f integrated government expenditure management (Gestion
        Intkgrke de la Dkpense, GID) designed to rationalize and further simplify public
        expenditure execution procedures by, for example, eliminating the multiple recording o f
        transactions and adopting the principle o f a single entry, speeding up the processing o f
        expenditure documents, ensuring that there i s consistency at all times between the
        accounts of the different players involved, and accelerating the process o f preparing
        budget execution laws;


    0   Findinga better way o f formalizing procedures and sharing information throughout the
        expenditure circuit (better training for budget management units, preparation o f
        procedural manuals);

    0   Endeavoringto make expenditure more transparent by developing online government, for
        example, by setting up an Internet site dedicated to public procurement that will
        centralize information on bidding opportunities and contract awards, and improving the
        information provided to the public on budget programming and execution. This measure
        will reinforce transparency by clarifying administrative procedures, and will make public
        procurement more widely accessible, thereby achieving greater efficiency and providing
        the public with more information on government operations and achievements.

b) Improving performance and governanceby reconfiguring the chain of control.

The introduction o f results-based management means that the public administration will have to
develop the concept o f performance auditing for all officials involved inpublic expenditure, as a
means o f ensuring the effectiveness and efficiency of that expenditure.

This new approachrequires:

    0    The gradual streamlining o f ex-ante control procedures: this will be achieved through
        reforms already made in the exercise o f expenditure commitment control, and will be
         accompanied by the introductionof a proceduralmanual and training programs.


    0    Reinforcingperformance audit capacities for the entire chain o f control. Inthis context,
         the General Inspection Offices o f the Ministries, with the support o f the General
         Inspector o f Finance, will, once their capacity to do so has been reinforced, audit
         government budget execution against performance indicators.


    0    Better coordination among control bodies, in terms o f exchangmg experience and
         information.

                                                                                           ANNEX I
                                                                                        Page 4 of 8

2.2. Improvingthe effectiveness of the government's human resources management

The Government o f Morocco considers it essential to confirm the strategic role o f human
resources management as the cornerstone o f the entire process o f change that its administrative
reforms are designed to promote.       Accordingly, the reforms call for actions over the short,
medium and long terms, basedon the following principles:

a) Matchingpersonnelprofiles more closely with stated or anticipated needs

Forward-looking management of human resources. Standardbenchmarks for jobs and skills will
be introduced in all ministerial departments, under the authority o f the Ministry for Public Sector
Modernization (MMSP), by project teams established within each ministry. This operation will
be implemented gradually over four years beginning in 2004, incorporating several new
ministries each year, with the goal o f covering 80 percent o f civil servants by 2006. It calls for
each administration to, develop a personnel database, and for the MMSP to assume responsibility
for maintaining and monitoring the list o f administrative positions as o f 2004, as well as for
preparing a prior functional analysis o f ministerial structures. This analysis will be used for
determining the slulls needed to fill positions in the ministries, for redeploying positions and
employees, and for identifying the slulls that holders o fthose positions musthave or acquire.

The upgrading of human resources. Several measures are plannedfor this purpose, inthe context
o f reforms to the legal framework and the system for managing civil service recruitment in
2003/2004. The measures will combine strict respect for transparency and equality o f access to
public employment with the search for candidates whose profiles match the evolving needs o f the
administration and will contribute to raising the level o f professional qualification in the civil
service. Competition and pre-selection will be the normal authorized means o f recruitment for
government personnel.       The recruitment process will provide for specifying the desired
professional profile and the geographic assignment o fnew recruits. Positions at levels 1to 4 will
be gradually reduced through attrition, and any new recruitment in these categories will be
prohibited.   Temporary employment will also be phased out: such employees will be converted
to regular civil service status, and further recruitment in this category will be prohibited as o f
2004. Finally, departments will be allowed to negotiate fixed-term contracts for projects that
require a specific expertise not available among existing staff.

Human resources mobility. The strategic move to de-concentration will require procedures to
encourage redeployment and to correct imbalances in the geographic or sectoral distribution o f
staff, without systematic resort to new recruitment.        The process also involves simplifying
secondment procedures so that they can become an operational tool for reinforcing the mobility
o f civil servants and meeting administrative needs, together with an innovative "availability
roster'' procedure that will allow employees to be re-assigned more readily without reference to
specific pay conditions, which are a serious obstacle to mobility. A database will be created and
made accessible at the MMSP web site in 2005, at latest, representing a kind o f "job exchange"
where notices o f vacancies and persons seehng redeployment can be posted.

                                                                                           ANNEXI
                                                                                       Page 7 of 8

b) Making the staff promotion, evaluation and remuneration system more efficient, aspart of
thepolicy to control thepublicpayroll

Remuneration, promotion and evaluation mechanisms in the civil service are the key drivers o f
motivation and effectiveness in a system that will now place greater stress on rewarding effort
and performance. Benchmark analyses for jobs and slulls are fundamental elements for building
a new system o fremuneration inthe civil service.

T o make it easier to take the results o f these benchmark analyses into account, the regulations
governing the specific status o f civil servants will have to be simplified and harmonized. These
will be consolidated starting in2004 inorder to reduce the number and facilitate the classification
o fjob categories inthe list preparedby the MMSP, as these benchmark analyses are produced.

As a prerequisite for overhauling the remuneration system, these benchmark analyses will have to
be finalized and, consistent with the results, employees will have to be redeployed in order to
achieve the required matchbetweenjobs and skills.

The work o f preparing the new remuneration system will begin in2005, affecting those classes o f
positions for which benchmark analyses o fjobs and slulls are available.

To enhance the performance o f managers and officers inthe civil service, performance evaluation
policies and procedures will be implemented in 2004/2005. These will also make it possible to
identify training needs for purposes o f skills upgrading, in order to facilitate mobility and
promotion, and, ultimately, to make salary determination more equitable. The evaluations will
also help to motivate officers by linkingtheir individual performance to the performance o f their
unit.

At the same time, new promotion procedures will be introduced to reconcile the need for
motivation with the need to improve the efficiency o f the civil service. The main innovation in
this area will be to institute promotion on the basis o f vocational aptitude tests and systematic
performance appraisals, combined with steps to free up the current promotion process by
establishing annual quotas. As o f 2005, 22 percent o f persons eligible for promotion will be
promoted every year, half o f them through a vocational aptitude test and half o f them through a
performance evaluation.

c) Development of the in-service training policy

A coherent policy for in-service training will be implemented, using individual plans for the
various ministriesprepared on the basis o f a study o f in-service training needs for employees and
managers in the most common trades and professions. This policy will become an essential tool
for filling the gap between existing personnel profiles and those that will be needed to meet the
challenges identifiedby the job and skills benchmark analyses, to support functional mobility, to
facilitate promotion, to enrich the career o f officers and managers, and to help disseminate a
culture o f managementby results.

                                                                                           ANNEX I
                                                                                        Page 8 of 8


d) Controllingthe publicpayroll

Efforts have been underway since 2002 to control the public payroll through such measures as
limiting the creation of budgeted positions to the number of employees reaching mandatory
retirement age. These efforts will be pursued in 2004-2006. The structural measures described
above will allow for better management of the public payroll over the long term, consistent with
humanresources development objectives.

The planned early retirement provision will have a structural impact over time, because vacant
positions will be eliminated and people who have taken early retirement will be prohibited from
recruitment in the public sector. That provision will therefore tend to reduce the growth o f the
payroll, and it will also assist in re-profiling the civil service and improving its efficiency,
through a selective reduction in the number o f civil servants, particularly those in the lower and
intermediate categories.


111.ARRANGEMENTSFORSTEERINGAND MONITORINGTHEREFORMPROGRAM


The Prime Minister has assigned responsibility for steering and monitoring this Public
Administration Reform Program to a special inter-ministerial committee chaired by the minister
reporting to the Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, General Affairs, and Upgrading o f the
Economy.

This committee, which will include representatives o f the ministerial departments responsible for
Modemization o f the Public Sector, Infrastructure and Transport, Agnculture, the Interior,
Health, and Finance and Privatization, will monitor and evaluate activities under the reform
program and make recommendations for maximizing its impact, with a view to making the public
administration a true catalyst for competitiveness and ensuring coordination with the various
inter-ministerial committees, established by the Prime Minister, that are responsible for other
components o fpublic administration reform.

Moreover, to ensure regular monitoring o f activities under the program, representatives will be
appointed from each o f the departments responsible for Modemization o f the Public Sector,
General Affairs, and Finance to conduct a periodic assessment o f the program's implementation
status, and to prepare progress reports for the committee referredto above.

The government is aware o fthe needto builda consensus around the objectives o f the reform and
the procedures for implementingit. For this purpose, it intends to prepare, as quickly as possible,
a strategy for communication and for "managing change," focused on the reformprogram.

Thank you, Mr. President, for your support for this important program to reform the Moroccan
public administration.






I 2


iC>
c




:!iei
f




:
ECc
iC
C
i
t;
if
i
i

i


t
ict

i
t
it




-


                                                                                     ANNEXIII
                                                                                   Page 1of I

LISTOFMEASURES BYTHEBORROWER
                   TAKEN                        UNDER THE FIRSTPHASE OF THE PROGRAM

     The Borrower has:

1.   continued to maintain a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, consistent with the
     objectives o f the Program, as determined on the basis o f macroeconomic indicators
     agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
2.   established a medium-term expenditure framework ("cadre de dkpenses A moyen terme"
     or "CDMT") for the period 2004-2006 including the evolution o f public finance
     aggregates for said period and a study setting forth the options retained in the
     establishment o f said framework;
3.   (a) adopted the regulations ("arr6tks") providing for the application to, respectively, five
     (5) ministries o f the Borrower o f the budget globalizationprocess; and (b) identified the
     relevant performance indicators for each such ministry for the Borrower's fiscal year
     2004;
4.   submitted to the Bank a study on the expected impact o f the early retirement program
     for civil servants under scales 1to 9;
5.   published in its Official Gazette the decree setting forth the early retirement procedures
     for civil servants under scales 1to 9;
6.   disseminated the Prime Minister's Circular setting forth the terms o f reference and
     mandate o f the Steering Committee in charge o f developing and establishing the
     strategic staffing framework ("rkfkrentiel des emplois-compktences")         in the public
     administration;
7.   adopted in its Council o f Government a decree providing for the suppression of the
     grades and cadres o f civil servants under scales 1to 4;
8.   disseminated the Pnme Minister's Circular notifying the Borrower's General Financial
     Comptroller ("Contr6le Gknkral des Engagements des Dkpenses") o f the prohibition
     regardingthe recruitment of temporary staff within the public administration;
9.   adopted in its Council o f Government a draft law amending the Borrower's Royal
     Decree ("Dahir") No. 1-58-008 o f February 24, 1958 governing the general statutes o f
     the civil service ("Statut Genkral de la Fonction Publique"),        and setting forth the
     procedures applyingto redeployment, secondment and transfer o f civil servants;
10.   adopted in its Council of Government the legislative or regulatory framework setting
      forth the procedures governing the recruitment by the State o f personnel on the basis o f
      fixed-term contracts;
11.   disseminated the Prime Minister's Circular regarding the preparation o f master plans for
      de-concentration o fthe Borrower's ministries; and
12.   adopted inits Council o f Government a decree establishing a promotion scheme for civil
      servants.

                                                                                   ANNEXI V
                                                                                Page I of 3

DOCUMENTOF INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUNDAND FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 suR/o4/45

                                                                                May 7,2004

                              The Acting Chair's Summing Up
                            Morocco-2004       Article IV Consultation
                        ExecutiveBoard Meeting 04/45-May         5,2004


        Executive Directors agreed with the thrust o f the staff appraisal. They commended
the Moroccan authorities for maintaining macroeconomic stability and accelerating structural
reforms in 2003. Inflation remained low, nonagricultural output accelerated, and foreign
exchange reserves hlly covered the outstanding public and publicly guaranteed external
debt. Despite a higher fiscal deficit, the debt-to-GDP ratio continued to decline and
structural reforms progressed on several fronts. These developments contributed to improved
market confidence inthe Moroccan economy.

        Directors emphasized that the key challenge facing Morocco is to achieve sustainable
high rates o f economic growth to reduce unemployment and poverty. They observed that
higher growth in nonagricultural output will be essential to reduce the volatility o f overall
growth. To achieve higher growth inthe context o fMorocco's increasing integration into the
world economy, Directors stressedthe importance o f supportive macroeconomic policies and
accelerated structural reforms with a view to promoting private investment and increasing the
productivity o f the economy. They congratulated the authorities for measures being taken to
assist the low-income population, noting that efforts to maintain social cohesion are an
integral part o f the sustainability o f structuralreforms.

        Directors considered fiscal consolidation an essential element o f the medium-term
high-growth strategy, and welcomed the authorities' intention to reduce the deficit over the
medium term.       Several Directors favored an early start to fiscal adjustment in order to
provide room to absorb possible shocks along the way and to prevent expectations o f higher
taxes and interest rates that could constrain growth. Such a strategy would also enable a
somewhat more ambitious reduction inthe debt-to-GDP ratio. Other Directors, however, felt
that front-loading the consolidation may not be necessary, provided that there is a clear and
well- communicated commitment to adjustment. In this context, Directors welcomed the
authorities' intention to begin to strengthen the fiscal position in 2004. They noted that the
increase in the fiscal deficit in 2003 stemmed in part from lower import tariff revenues as
well as an increase inthe wage bill and security-related spending. Therefore, they welcomed
the continued freeze on net new hiring and the provision in the 2004 budget for an early
retirementprogram to reduce the size o f the civil service. Directors urged the authorities to
step up tax collection and to move ahead in2004 with the plannedreform o f the food subsidy
system, while ensuring that an appropriate social safety net is inplace.

        Directors emphasized the importance o f fiscal reforms for sustained reduction in the
fiscal deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio over the medium term. Inparticular, they urged the
authorities to pushahead with their public administration andcivil service reformplans in

                                                                                      ANNEX1V
                                                                                     Page 2 of 3

order to reduce the wage bill on a lasting basis, and to streamline expenditure in the context
of their ongoing efforts to strengthen accountability in public management. A number o f
Directors supported the staffs inclusion o f the Fonds Hassan I1spending, which is excluded
from the government budget, in the overall fiscal balance in view o f its direct impact on
economic activity and its implications for central government investment spending.
Directors also welcomed the authorities' plans to work on a broad-based tax policy and tax
administration reform that will increase the efficiency o f the tax system, reduce exemptions,
and offset revenue losses stemming from the ongoing trade liberalization.             Directors
considered the authorities' request for a fiscal Report On Standards and Codes to be a very
positive step.

       Directors agreed that the current monetary framework has served Morocco well.
They noted that the nominal anchor provided by the peg o f the dirham to a currency basket
has contributed to keeping inflation low, and that there are no signs o f an exchange rate
misalignment. Nevertheless, they generally welcomed the authorities' intention to review the
desirability and operational modalities o f alternative exchange rate regimes before further
opening o f the capital account.        In this regard, several Directors emphasized that
strengthening the fiscal position and the financial sector are a higher priority at the moment
and, inany case, are pre-conditions for any eventual move to greater exchange rate flexibility
as the economy becomes more integrated with international capital and goods and services
markets.

        Directors agreed with the structural reform priorities outlined by the authorities,
which will complement fiscal reforms inpromoting private sector activity and enhancing the
productivity and competitiveness o f the economy. Directors commended the authorities'
decision to lower import tariffs on a multilateral basis so as to minimize trade diversion and
urged continued liberalization and simplification o f the trade regime. They noted that the
trade agreements with regional partners, the European Union, and the United States represent
significant steps towards increased integration to the world economy that would help attract
foreign investment and achieve improved efficiency and competitiveness.

        Directors welcomed the importance given by the government to strengthening the
financial sector and the progress made in implementing the recommendations o f the
Financial Sector Assessment Program. Inparticular, they supported the authorities' intention
to restructure troubled state-owned banks and strengthen non-bank financial institutions.
They also welcomed plans to introduce new central bank and banking legislation in2004 that
would make it possible to hrther modernize the financial system and the monetary policy
framework, and to strengthen the independence o f the centralbank. They welcomed the anti-
terrorism legislation and the central bank's directives on anti-money laundering.         They
recommended that the draft legislation on anti-money laundering, consistent with                  .
international standards, be finalized expeditiously.

        To promote private sector activity, Directors underscored the need to improve the
business environment-in     particular, to streamline administrative procedures, strengthen the
judicial system, and implement the provisions o f the new labor code. They also called for
hrtherimprovementsingovernance andtransparency, anda hrtherwithdrawal ofthe state

                                                                                     ANNEX1V
                                                                                    Page 3 of 3

from sectors that are in the private sector domain. They were encouraged by the efforts to
improve the financial viability o f the public enterprises, which would facilitate the ongoing
privatization program. Directors welcomed recent actions taken to improve the financial
position o f the pension funds, and urged elaboration o f a comprehensive plan to put the
pension system on a sound footing.

       Directors commended the authorities' efforts to improve the statistical system. They
encouraged the authorities to accelerate progress toward early subscription to the Special
Data Dissemination Standard.

        It is expected that the next Article N consultationwith Morocco will be heldon the
standard 12-monthcycle.




Fund contact: Mrs. Sena Eken or Mr. Abdourahmane Sarr

                                                                                                                                 ANNEXV
                                                                                                                               Page 1of 2
                                      Morocco at a glance                                                                          5/17/04


                                                                     M. East       Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                    & North       middIe-
                                                         Morocco      Africa       income      Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                                 29.6       306         2.411                  Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                          1,170       2,070        1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                              34.7        670        3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                     T
Population I%)                                                  1.6        1.9         1.o
Laborforce (%)                                                 2.4        2.9          1.2     GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                               per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199642)                                                                              primary
                                                                                               capita                           nroilment
Poverty (% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)               19
Urbanpopulation(% of totalPOpUlatiOn)                           57         58           49
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                 70         69           69                         1
Infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                          39         37           30
Child malnutriiion(% of childrenunder5)                                                 11          Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)             80         88           81
lllaeracy (% of populationage 75+1                              49         35           13        -
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)          109         95          111               Morocco
   Male                                                                    98          111               Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                                  90          110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  I982        1992      2001          2002      Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                 15.4        28.5      33.9         36.1
Gross domestic investmeWGDP                        28.2        23.2      22.9         22.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP                  19.2        25.1      33.0         32.3                       Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                         13.3        13.1      12.9          13.5                        -
Gross national savings/GDP                         17.8        18.3      20.9         21.7

Current account balancdGDP                        -12.3        -1.5        4.7         4.1
Interest paymentdGDP                                4.3         8.1        2.7          3.0
Total debtlGDP                                     80.4        79.7      58.8         51.5
Total debt service/exports                         44.8        40.6      17.3         23.9
Present value of debtlGDP                                                                                          1

Present value of debtlexports
                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 199242          2001      2002       200246
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       4.2       3.0         6.3        3.2          3.9
GDP per capita                            2.0       1.2         4.6        1.6          1.4               Lowerrniddle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services              7.8       4.6         4.8        6.3          4.2



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        15.3        15.4
 Industry                                          31.9        32.3       31.0         30.3
   Manufacturing                                   17.3        18.1       16.9         16.8
Services                                           52.8        52.3       53.5         53.6

 Privateconsumption
 General government consumption                    18.3        16.8       19.8         20.1               -
 Importsof goods and services                      33.7        31.8       36.2         36.7                      GDI      *GDP



                                                1982-92 199242          2001          2002
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                         Growth of exports and imports (%)         I
Agriculture                                         5.3         2.0       27.6          5.6     25

 Industry                                           3.2         3.6        5.0          2.7     20
                                                                                                15
   Manufacturing                                    4.2         3.0        4.2          3.3     10
 Services                                           4.3         2.9        2.8          2.9      5
                                                                                                 0
 Privateconsumption                                 4.3         2.9        5.9          4.6      5
 General government consumption                     3.8         3.8       12.6         -3.8    -10
 Gross domestic investment                          2.9         5.7        8.2          4.6
 Importsof goods and services                       5.9         5.9        8.2          5.6


 Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
 *The diamonds showfour key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average.Ifdata are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.

                                                                                                                 ANNEXV
                                                                                                           Page2 of 2

                                                                                                            Morocco
                                                                   ~




PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
Domesticprices                                                            Inflation ("h)

(% change)                                                               4 T
Consumer prices                          10 5     5.7     0.6    2 8
Implicit GDP deflator                      7 2    4.4     1.8    0 6

Government finance
(% of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                          176    26.2    24.9   24 7                57    98     53      w        01
Current budget balance                    -4.9    3.0    -1.1    0 1     1        -GDPdeflator         +CPI             "I
Overall surpluddeficit                    -6 1   -2.3    -2.8   -42

TRADE
                                         1982                                                                           I
                                                1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                            Exportand import levels (US$mill.)

Total exports (fob)                     2,043  5,024   7,137   7,839
 Agriculture                              501  1,053   1,477   1,648      12wo
 Phosphorusrock                           572    307     373    364       10000
 Manufactures                             407  2,612   3,930   4,495       8,000
Total imports(cifJ                      4,315  8.113   10,978 11,736       6 wo
 Food                                     580    895   1,358   1,389       4 000
 Fueland energy                         1,173  1,124   1,935   1,834       2.000
                                                                         I                                               I
 Capital goods                            953  2,019   2,027   2,264            0

Exportprice index (1995-700)                68    82      93      96              96    57   98    59     00     01

Import price index (1995=100)               75     78      76     76                     Exports          imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   91    106     123    126                                                  O2



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                              Currentaccount balanceto GDP (Oh)

Exportsof goods and services            2,969  7,134   11,166 12,199       S T
Importsof goods and services            5,199  9,043   12,262 13,314
Resourcebalance                         -2,230 -1,909  -1,116 -1,115

Net income                               -650  -1,057   -833    -738
Net currenttransfers                       981  2,533   3,555  3,330

Currentaccountbalance                   -1,899  -433    1,606  1,477

Financingitems (net)                     2,093  1,116   2,242   -839
Changes in net reserves                  -194   -683   -3,848   -538

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)       141  3,561   8,988 11,089
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$)             6 0    8.5    11.3    11 0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1982   1992    2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                            I Composition of 2002 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed     12,401 22,674  19,944 18,601
  IBRD                                     698  3,408   2,500  2,549
  IDA                                       41     37      25     24

 Total debt service                      1,721  3,894   2,556  3,691
  IBRD                                      89    518     452    412
  IDA                                        1      1       2       2

 Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                           163    182     172
  Officialcreditors                        726    471    -432   -726
  Privatecreditors                         804     49      62   -399
  Foreigndirect investment                  80    387   2.877    558
  Portfolioequity                            0     31      22      19                             E 6,209
 World Bank program
  Commitments                              136    275       8     98        A IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                ~

  Disbursements                            135    477      61     45        B IDA
                                                                              --       D Othermultilateral
                                                                                        -                   F Private
                                                                                                                ~


   Principalrepayments                      38    270     280    269        C IMF
                                                                               ~                            G-Short-term
   Net flows                                97    207    -220    -224
   Interestpayments                         51    249     173     145
   Net transfers                            46    -42    -393    -369


 DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                              5117/04

                                                                                                                                           ANNEXVI
                                                                                                                                          Page I of I


                                                            CASAnnex 88 -Morocco
                                                    Operations Portfolio(IBRDIIDA and Grants)
                                                                    A3 of 04105l2004




IBRDflDA
  Told Disburs& (A\slwel              98 3
        of which has been iapad        112
  Tofd DlsburW (Uosed)                 70.678
        ofwhich hsubesn tepmd         5.220 9
  Told hrburned (Actire + Clordl       7.1663
        of which har been iapwd       5,232 1
  T o g Undirbvrred(Ad>va)            221 9
  Told Undirbvrred(Closed)            8 9
  Totsi Undirbvrd (Achvet Closadl     230 8



  Ad". P.0i.sb


                                                                                               OIldnal Amount In US$ Mllllons


Prc+l   ID    h l a t Nm.                                                        Fhsd b a r    IBRD      IDA ORANT         Cansel.-Undlsb.

PO05519       LAKHDAR WATERSHED MG                                                  1999            4                           1      1 8
PO05524       FESIMEDINA REHAB.                  S              U                   1999           14                         4 4     7 6
PO05516       ASSET MANAGEMENT                   s              s                  mo3            45                                 26 6
PO75808       ADULT LITERACY (ALPHA WROC)        S             S                   2003           4 1                                 4.7
PO05525       HEALTH MANAGEMENT                  U              s                   1999          66                         20 3    45 7
PO56978       IRRIGATION BASED COMMUNITY DEVT                   U                  mol         32 57                                 314
POW918        LEGALAND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT      ss             U                  ZOW            5 3                                    3
PO48314       PROTECTEDAREASMANAGEMENT           S              s                  2000                           $05                  10     8 6
PO43725       RAILWAY RESTR I   PRIV                            S                   1997          85                                 447      49 2    30
POW124        RAINFEDAGRICULTURE DEV                            S                  2003          26 8                                28 5      0 4
PO65757       SUSTAINABLE COASTALTOURISM DEV     sss                               mw             2 2                                  0 8     0 4
P073Wl        SOCIAL DEVELOPMENTAGENCY           u                                 2002             5                                  6 9       1    0 2
PO05521       WATER RESOURCE MGMT                                                   1998          20                          3 3      8 3    11 5
PO05803       SEW I WATER REUSE I1               ss             ssss                1996          40                          12      11 9     24     0 6
                                                              RwUlI                               350             10.5        41     231.9   179.3   31.5

                                                                                  ANNEXvrr
                                                                                 Page 1 of 1

                               MOROCCO TASKTEAM
                                          PARL


Country Director: Theodore Ahlers

Sector Manager: Pedro Alba

Country Manager: Ferid Belhaj

Task Team Leader: Pierre Demangel

Macroeconomics Team: Pedro Alba, Jennie Litvack, KhalidElMassnaoui

Public Finance Management Team: Kouassi Soman, Ian Davies (consultant, performance
auditing and evaluation)

Civil Service Management Team: Catherine Laurent, Jacques Bourgault (consultant, civil service
reform)

European Commission Team: Luca Oriani-Vieyra, Marco Berti, Martial Laurent

Senior Finance Officer: Hovsep Melkonian

Senior Counsel: Dominique Bichara

Financial Management Specialist: MeryemBenchemsi

Quality Reviewers: Allister Moon, Gary Reid

Task Sr. ProgramAssistant: Muna Abeid Salim


MAP SECTION


