Page  1
U
PDATED 
P
UBLIC 
I
NFORMATION 
D
OCUMENT
 
Report: 29324 
 
Project Name: 
Morocco-Public Administration Reform Adjustment 
Loan (PARL) 
Region: MNA 
Sector: 
 
Multi-Sector (Macroeconomic and Public Sector 
Management) 
Project ID: 
P078565 
Borrower: 
Kingdom of Morocco 
Implementation Agency : 
Ministère Délégué auprès du Premier Ministre Chargé 
des Affaires économiques et générales et de la mise à 
niveau de l’économie 
Rabat 
Date of Initial PID: 
June 5, 2003 
Date of Updated PID: 
June 10, 2004 
Project Board Date: 
July 1, 2004 
 
Background 
 
The Kingdom of Morocco has made good progress in the 1990s in economic and political reform. 
On the economic side, important milestones have been the signing of an Association with the 
European Union (EU) in 1996, the liberalization of the telecommunication sector, and the recent 
reforms in labor markets.  Very important also were the strong efforts implemented by the 
authorities to improve access to services in rural areas, efforts which continue. Progress was 
especially impressive on the political side, with the appointment of a prominent opposition leader 
as Prime Minister in 1998, and elections to Parliament in September 2002 which were applauded 
as free and fair elections.  Inter alia, the new government appointed after these elections has the 
mandate to improve public resource management and transform the public administration into a 
contributor to Morocco’s accelerated growth and job creation agenda. 
 
In collaboration with the World Bank and the EU, Morocco launched its Public Administration 
Reform Program in early 2002. Such a program was based on prior Economic and Sector Work 
(ESW), including a participative Public Expenditure Review in 2001-2002, which highlighted 
major structural constraints to efficient public sector management such as the large wage bill and 
the excessive centralization of expenditure management.  It’s development was supported by the 
Bank through a programmatic ESW operation, a multi-year analytical work and knowledge-
sharing activity.  The program focuses on the issues of budgetary management and civil service 
reform within the context of administrative decentralization (de-concentration), with a clear 
institutional perspective and a concrete solution-oriented approach.  During the 2003 Spring 
Page  2
2
Meetings, the government approached the Bank with a request for a quick-disbursing policy 
operation to support the effective implementation of its program.  The proposed adjustment Loan 
is the Bank’s response to this request. 
 
Loan Objectives and Description 
 
The objectives of the proposed Public Administration Reform Adjustment Loan (PARL) are to 
support the Government’s efforts to improve the effectiveness of public resource management, a 
key step for accelerated growth and poverty reduction.  They include: (i) improving the efficiency 
of budget expenditure by de-concentrating expenditures and accountability to enable greater 
flexibility to regional administrations, and by introducing performance budgeting and auditing; 
(ii) implementing a reform of the civil service based on enhancing efficiency and service quality; 
and (iii) ensuring the sustainability of the fiscal accounts by controlling inter alia the magnitude 
of the civil service payroll. 
 
Based on an agreed set of public administration reforms, as detailed in the Letter of  Development 
Policy, the Bank will provide resources to the Government.  The proposed loan will be the first in 
a
series of annual programmatic loans supporting the implementation of the reform program.  The 
proposed loan will complement and strengthen the ongoing multi-year programmatic ESW 
activity through which the Bank is providing the Government with advice, training and technical 
assistance as required in the areas of budgetary management and civil service. 
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The proposed PARL is a structural adjustment loan supporting the Government’s overall public 
administration reform program.  The Government views this Loan as a tangible sign of the 
Bank’s endorsement of its reform program, giving credibility to its efforts and formalizing the 
Bank’s stamp of approval.  This would help in overcoming the traditional political and 
institutional obstacles which have affected previous attempts at reform. 
 
For the Bank, the proposed Loan is fully consistent with the CAS. It supports actions to improve 
the effectiveness of government services and the sustainability of the fiscal framework which are 
crucial to the overall country assistance. The proposed PARL is part of the CAS reform base case 
scenario, in turn made possible by the progress in fiscal management experienced during 2001-
2002. 
 
Benefits and Risks 
 
By addressing the key constraints affecting the effectiveness of public service delivery, the 
proposed PARL will contribute to private sector development and poverty reduction.  By helping 
keep the wage bill under control, it will help ensure macroeconomic stability.  It will help provide 
the practical budgetary framework necessary to implement the Government’s administrative 
decentralization orientation.  From the Bank’s point of view, this operation would provide an 
example across the region of how to address these important issues. 
 
Page  3
3
One important risk is that the Government would not be able to resist pressures to increase 
salaries for various categories of civil servants, and significantly undermine the improvement in 
the fiscal balance that allowed us to move to the base case CAS scenario.  This risk is being 
mitigated by the reform program itself, combined with the reformist stamp of the Government.  
Another risk is that the implementation of the reforms could be stalled, as was the case in the 
past, because of the silo mentality in Government and opposition from interest groups.  The risk 
is mitigated by the political coordination put in place by the new Cabinet to implement reforms, 
and also by the strategic policy dialogue pursued between Moroccan authorities and the Bank.   
Also, we are planning, along with key partners, extensive supervision of the implementation of 
the reforms, together with the knowledge sharing and technical assistance entailed by a 
continuation of the programmatic ESW operation. 
 
Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed Loan would be disbursed in one installment upon effectiveness.  Procurement and 
disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for structural adjustment 
operations.  Thus, disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and there will be no 
procurement requirements.  The local currency counterpart generated by the proposed Loan will 
be used to finance the Budget.  Although an audit of the use of funds may not be required, IBRD 
reserves the right to require audits at any time. 
 
Coordination with other Donors 
 
At the request of the Government, this operation has been prepared jointly with the European 
Commission which participated in all missions and prepared joint Aide-memoires with Bank 
staff.  
It is closely coordinated to the EU upcoming support: program content, conditions 
and trigger points are common to the two institutions.
 
Environment Category 
 
The PARL has no direct impact on the environment. For the purpose of Operational Directive 
4.01, this project has been placed in the environmental category U, which does not require an 
environmental assessment. 
 
Contact Points: Public Information Center 
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, N W. 
Washington, D C. 20433 
Telephone No. (202) 458-5454 
Fax No. (202) 522-1500 
 
Task Team Leader 
Pierre J. Demangel 
Page  4
4
The World Bank 
1
81
8
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone No. (202) 458-8023 
Fax No. (202) 477-0432 
 
