Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqept No. 13043
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1634-BD)
MAY 12, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(October 1993)
US$1               =          Tk 39.00
Tk 1               =          US$0.0256
Tk 1 million       =          US$25641.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)           =          0.405 hectare (ha)
1 cubic meter (m3)               1.3 cubic yards
2.54 centimeter (cm)    =         1 inch
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                        Asian Development Bank
BFIDC                      Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation
BFRI                       Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
DCA                        Development Credit Agreement
ECNEC                      Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
ERR                        Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP                     Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
FD                         Forest Department
FRMP                       Forest Resources Management Project (Cr. 2397-BD)
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GOB                        Government of Bangladesh
IFCU                       Institute of Forestry of Chittagong University
MAI                        Mean Annual Increment
MAP                        Mangrove Afforestation Project (Cr. 1042-BD)
MOEF                       Ministry of Environment and Forest
PCR                        Project Completion Report
PP                         Project Proforma
PTU                        Plantation Trial Unit
RIMS                       Resource Information Management System
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
SI                         Site Indices
SPARRSO                    Bangladesh Space Research and Remote Sensing
Organization
UNDP                       United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
May 12, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:        Project Completion Report on BANGLADESH
Second Forestry Project (Cr. 1634-BDI
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Bangladesh-Second Forestry Project (Cr.
1634-BD) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office with Part II prepared by the Borrower. The
quality of the report is satisfactory and the careful review contributed by the Borrower adds
significantly to its quality.
The project built directly upon experience gained in earlier projects (Mangrove Afforestation:
Cr. 1042-BD and Second Agricultural Research: Cr. 1455-BD) and conformed closely to the
Government's development strategy. The project aimed to increase the supply of forest products by
improving the productivity of natural forests and plantations, and by strengthening forestry institutions
to carry out ongoing and expanded programs.
Implementation experience was slower than planned because of a complex organizational
design, start up problems, slow release of funds and late provision of reports and accounts. But
implementors overcame these problems, meeting most targets set at appraisal. Provision of support
services and institutional development were also satisfactory, although the level of local participation
in project design and implementation was limited. This weakness could affect project sustainability.
Environmental risks were correctly identified at appraisal, but the project contained no contingency
to compensate for damage caused if the risks became reality-which they did, in the form of heavy
pest infestations and the destructive cyclone of 1991.
Project outcome is rated satisfactory and sustainability is likely. Institutional building was
substantial. The project demonstrated that time allocated for implementation of forestry projects
should normally be longer than five years; new staffing and recruitment policies should be
implemented in the early stages of implementation, to be built upon; and greater attention should
be paid to people's participation and social benefits in projects designed to meet their basic timber
and fuelwood needs. Several of these lessons, however, have been incorporated in the project which
succeeded it (Forest Resources Management: Cr. 2397-BD).
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ....................................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA ' S PERSPECIIVE
Project Identity.                                                                                                          1
Project Background .............................................. 1
Project Objectives and  Description   ..................................   2
Project Design  and  Organization  ....................................   3
Project Implementation . ........................................... 5
Project Results  . ................................................   9
Project Sustainability ............................................ 11
IDA Performance ............................................... 11
Borrower Performance ........................................... 12
Lessons Learned ................................................ 12
Adherence to Covenants .......................................... 13
Consultancy Services ............................................. 13
Project Relationship ............................................. 13
Project Documentation and Data ................................... 14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER ' S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction ................................................... 15
The Committee ................................................ 16
The Terms of Reference  ..........................................  16
Methods ...................................................... 17
Growth and Yield Forecast ........................................ 17
Considerations for Yield and Economic Analyses ....................... 18
Site Indices and  MAI  ............................................ 20
Economic Analysis .............................................. 21
Conclusions ................................................... 22
Evaluation  of Plantations Raised  under Second  Forestry Project  ....                                       ........ 23
Table  1: Basis of Yield  Calculation  for Evaluation  of Project ............... 23
Table 2: Estimated MAI (m3/ha) and Average SI of Each Plantation  .... .... 24
Table 3: Estimate Yield (m3/ha) .................................... 25
Table 4: Economic Rate of Return of Different Components  ....                                             .......... 26



Table 5: Economic Price of Fuelwood  ................................ 27
Table 6: Economic Price of Logs and Conversion Factor .................. 28
References  ..................................................   29
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits . ............................................ 30
Project Timetable  .            .............................................. 30
Credit Disbursements . ............................................ 31
Project Implementation .                  .......................................... 31
Key Indicators - Physical Program   ................................... 31
Project Costs and Financing   ....................................... 32
Project Costs   . ................................................. 32
Project Financing  .            .............................................. 32
Project Results  .         ................................................ 33
Direct Benefits  .         ................................................ 33
Economic Impact  .              .............................................. 33
Financial Impact ................................................. 33
Studies  .....................................................   33
Status of Covenants   .              ............................................ 34
Use of IDA Resources .                   ........................................... 34
Staff Inputs (staff weeks) ......................................... 34
Missions .....................................................  35
Costs  .....................................................    35
ANNEX
Table 1: Comparison of Appraisal Plantations Targets and Actual
Achievements . .......................................... 36
Table 2:  Prices of Project Output .................................. 37
Table 3:  Economic Price of Fuelwood   .............................. 38
Table 4:  Economic Price of Logs and Conversion Factor ................. 39
Table 5:  Estimated Yields   ....................................... 40
Table 6: Exchange Rates and Local and Foreign Currency
Inflators ............................................... 41
Table 7:  Yearwise Project Costs in Current and Constant Prices  ....                                ....... 42
Table 8: Yearwise Project Costs in Constant (1992) Economic
Prices ...........I................... ...................... 43
Table 9:  Economic Analysis of Mangrove Plantations  ................... 44
Table 10:  Economic Analysis of Industrial Plantations  ..... ..                                ............ 46
Table  11: Economic Analysis of the Project ........................... 49



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGIADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Forestry Project in
Bangladesh, for which Credit 1634-BD in the amount of SDR 27.1 million was approved on
November 12, 1985. The Credit was revised in September 1991 when SDR 4.0 million was
cancelled. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, one year behind schedule. Actual
disbursements amounted to SDR 17.5 million. The final undisbursed balance of SDR 5.61
million was cancelled as of June 19, 1992.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared
by a mission from the Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program1(FAO/CP) which visited Bangladesh in August 1992. The Borrower submitted
Part II in September 1993. The Borrower I s submission included new tree growth and price
data which differed in some cases substantially from the findings of the FAO/CP mission,
and made it necessary to revise the economic analysis prepared by the PCR mission. This
report, therefore, includes a new economic analysis based on the more recent cost and
benefit data provided by the Borrower. Other sections of the report are based on a review
of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 5588-BD dated October 9, 1985, the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA), information provided by the Government of Bangladesh, a review
of World Bank records in Dhaka, and the FAO/CP mission ' s discussions with the
Borrower ' s project staff and associated Bank staff.
1. M.S. Johnson (Mission Leader, Forester) and M.G. Faruq (Consultant, Economist). Upon receipt of Part II
with new data from the Borrower in September 1993, SA1AG revised the economic analysis prepared by
the FAO/CP mission.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives (Section 3)
i.     The project 's principal aim was to increase the supply of forest products by
improving the productivity of the natural forests and expanding the existing plantation
program in the project area.  Additional objectives included strengthening forestry
educational, training and research institutions to improve the capability of the Forest
Department (FD) to carry out its ongoing and expanded programs. The project continued
the program of afforestation of newly accreted land and institutional strengthening
previously financed under the Mangrove Afforestation Project (Cr. 1042-BD).
ImDlementation Experience (Section 5)
ii.    The Credit did not become effective until six months after signature because of
delays by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in meeting three of the five conditions of
effectiveness, i.e., (a) approval of Project Proformas (PP), (b) approval of the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project document, and (c) appointment of
architectural consultants (para 5.1).
iii.    Implementation generally followed the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), but with
considerable variations from the original schedule of activities. The designed project period
of five years was unrealistically short for Bangladesh, where a project period of about seven
years has been found by experience to be more practical. The short period meant that
difficulty was experienced in meeting planting targets (paras 5.4 and 5.11), thinning of
established plantations (paras 5.4 and 5.12) and completing the civil works program, some
parts of which were not even started (para 5.17). The rather complex organization of the
project, involving four agencies from three ministries, was unavoidable, but gave rise to
delays in some aspects of project execution (para 4.8). Installation of a Resource
Information Management System (RIMS) in FD made slow progress, as did the process of
bringing forests under the control of management plans (para 5.14). In-service training of
FD staff did not fully meet expectations (para 5.17). There was considerable cost overrun
at the Institute of Forestry, Chittagong University (IFCU), and GOBI's contribution to
overall project financing rose from 10% to 21% (para 5.18). Project risks were generally
correctly identified; however, the scope of the project might have been wider to allow
replacement of losses caused by the April 1991 cyclone (para 5.6). The risk of serious pest
and disease attacks developing in monoculture plantations was not identified and problems



iii
have emerged (paras 5.5 and 5.11), to which only tentative solutions have so far been
developed.
Results (Section 6)
iv.     The project's principal objective of expanding the forest resource base was
successfully met (para 6.1). Considerable progress was also made in (a) strengthening the
capacity of FD to carry out its operational programs and improve forestry education, and
(b) developing forestry training and research institutions (para 6.3).
v.      It is now estimated that the direct benefit in terms of wood production would be
only 35% of the appraisal estimate of 16.6 million m3, due to lower yields and the lower
than expected achievements in establishing mangrove plantations. The lower benefits
combined with an increase in cost, resulted in a 7% drop of the project ' s overall economic
rate of return (ERR) from 20% forecast at appraisal to about 13% estimated now. The
drop in the ERR for the mangrove plantation component was 11 percentage points; for
industrial plantations it was 7 percentage points (paras 6.5 to 6.8).
Proiect Sustainability (Section 7)
vi.     FD has a demonstrated capacity to establish and apply silvicultural treatment to
forest plantations, and its managerial capacity is improving, supported by educational and
training facilities undergoing enhancement. Also, during the latter part of the project, GOB
met 70% of plantation maintenance, staff salaries and other operating costs (para 5.18),
indicating its ability to support these project developments without resorting to external
financing. Thus, the project can be regarded as sustainable.
vii.    However, to ensure longer term sustainability, reforms would also be necessary in
the areas of environment and nature conservation, forest land use, people ' s participation,
and pricing of forest products sold to public sector agents (para 7.2). These aspects are
being addressed in the follow-up IDA-funded Forest Resources Management Project
(Cr. 2397-BD).
Lessons Learned (Section 10)
viii.    Findings. Overall, the project was well prepared and necessary adjustments to
scope were made at appraisal. The project concept was sound and conformed to the
Government's development strategy for the sector. Implementation resulted in the
principal objective being met. A reasonable economic rate of return has been achieved, and
several unquantiflable benefits were realized (para 6.6).
ix.     Lessons learned. The main lessons were: (a) a five-year project period is too
short, particularly in the absence of annual monitoring; (b) greater prominence needs to be
given in project design and execution to people ' s participation; (c) project scope needs to
be broader to include repairs to damage wrought by cyclones; (d) new staffing and



iv
recruitment policies need to be agreed at the start of the project; (e) there is a risk of
disease in large-scale plantations of single species; (f) inter-departmental problems can lead
to considerable delay in awarding and executing contracts; and (g) a clear institutional
mechanism is required to allocate reclaimed coastal lands to their most appropriate long-
term  use consistent with environmental protection.  These lessons have all been
incorporated in the follow-up Forest Resources Management Project.






PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
BANGIADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA' S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Iden ti
Project Name     Second Forestry Project
Credit No.       1634-BD
RVP Unit         South Asia Region
Country         Bangladesh
Sector          Agriculture
Sub-sector      Forestry
2. Project Background
2.1    Forestry sector. Some 3 million hectares (ha), or about 24% of actual land area
of Bangladesh, are classified as forest. However, a significant portion of the area (perhaps
exceeding 1 million ha) has no tree cover. Because forest resources are limited and demand
is high, there is a scarcity of fuelwood and other wood products, and this has led to an
increased use of cattle dung and other agricultural by-products as fuel, and has impaired
the growth of wood-based industries, many of which are operating below 50% of their full
capacity. Plantation programs have been in operation for a long time, but due to budgetary
constraints, unavailability of land and other factors, they have not increased commensurate
with demand. Plantations already established are, in some cases, unsatisfactory due to poor
site/species matching, lack of maintenance and poor genetic quality of seed.
2.2    The forestry sector currently accounts for only about 3.5% of GDP, but this does
not in itself reflect the true importance of the sector in Bangladesh. Fuelwood is an
essential source of the country ' s energy needs, while sawnwood, poles and bamboo are of
vital importance in house construction and for a wide range of necessities from furniture to
farm implements. Forests also have an important role in providing non-wood products,



2
protecting watersheds, reclaiming land from the sea and in protection of coastal areas and
the environment in general.
2.3     Policy context and project 's linkage. The Third Five-Year Plan of Bangladesh,
which basically covered the project period, specified the objectives of maximizing the forest
produce from the existing forests; development of new forest resources in Government and
private land as quickly as possible; provision of protection against cyclones, tidal waves and
soil erosion; and development of outdoor recreation. The overall objectives of the Fourth
Five-Year Plan (FY91-95) remain the same. The Forest Department' s (FD) program is
also in line with these policy directives, and the Second Forestry Project provided the
necessary external financing needed to sustain the program. The project, together with the
Asian Development Bank ' s (ADB) first Community Forest Project (completed in 1987), and
its ongoing Upazila Afforestation and Nursery Development Project (started in 1989)
brought the entire sector under a comprehensive and well-balanced development program.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1     Project objectives. The project ' s principal aim was to increase the supply of forest
products by improving the productivity of the natural forests and expanding the existing
plantation program in the project area. Additional objectives included strengthening forestry
educational, training and research institutions to improve the capability of FD to carry out
its ongoing and expanded programs.
3.2     Project description. The project was to cover a five-year period from FY86 to
FY91. The area comprised the four coastal forestry divisions of Bhola, Chittagong, Noakhali
and Patuakhali, the Sylhet forestry division in the northeast and the Chittagong and Cox ' s
Bazar forestry divisions in the southeast. The following components were included:
a.   establishment of about 40,000 ha of mangrove plantations and maintenance of
about 81,000 ha' of existing plantations;
b.   establishment of about 23,500 ha of industrial plantations and maintenance of
about 28,000 ha of existing plantations;
c.   development of management capability by providing technical assistance to
establish resource management systems for mangrove plantations and for forest
resources in the forestry divisions of Chittagong, Cox 's Bazar and Sylhet;
d.   carrying out a mangrove afforestation research program; and
1. This figure, which appears in the SAR and DCA, was too high in comparison with established plantings
under the Mangrove Afforestation Project of 30,000 ha, and earlier plantings by GOB of 32,000 ha.



3
e.   development of institutional capability by improving and expanding national
forestry education facilities and training of forestry personnel.
3.3   Project costs and financing plans.  Total project costs were estimated at
US$36.0 million equivalent. The IDA Credit of US$28.0 million equivalent was to finance
about 78% of total project costs. IDA financing was to contribute to all project components
except technical assistance and overseas training, which were to be financed by a United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) grant of US$4.3 million. The balance of
US$3.7 million equivalent in local currency was to be contributed by the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB).
4.       Project Design and Organization
4.1      Concept. The conceptual foundation of the project was clear, well understood
and conformed to the Government's development strategy which sought to promote
efficient forestry management by expanding the resource base and maximizing production
from the existing forests to meet the country's growing demand for fuielwood and other
wood products.
4.2      Timing. Timing was appropriate, following closely upon the first IDA-assisted
forestry sector project, the Mangrove Afforestation Project (MAP), (Cr. 1042-BD).
4.3      Design. The Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative
Program   (FAO/CP)  assisted  GOB   in  preparation  of  the  project  in
November/December 1983, which was appraised by IDA in November/December 1984.
The design was based on experience gained from MAP, and was in keeping with the survey
of the forestry sector carried out by FAO/CP in 1983, which identified the major
requirements in the sector.
4.4      The original project design included components for plantations and their
management in the Chittagong Hills Tract and for improving logging and extraction facilities
of the state-owned Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation (BFIDC).
During appraisal, however, IDA and GOB agreed to exclude the Chittagong Hills Tract
because of serious concern over the security situation there, and the logging and extraction
component due to the lack of necessary engineering studies. Subsequent events proved
these decisions to be correct, as the situation in the Chittagong Hills Tract continued to be
hazardous and the problems facing BFIDC appeared to be rooted in state ownership. Also,
issues affecting the latter can be better addressed under the Forestry Sector Master Plan
study now under way.



4
4.5       As a result of lessons learned from MAP, the following were incorporated in the
design of the mangrove afforestation component of the Second Forestry Project:
(a) For new plantations, "beating up".2 operations during the first three years
were included. This decision was correct, as beating up operations to fill in
the vacancies created when seedlings were washed away by wave action
during the first two or three years proved necessary;
(b) The rotation period for mangroves was reduced from 17-20 years to 10 years
because growth slows after 10 years, and site conditions change due to the
rapid accretion of soil, transforming low char3 to high char sites unsuitable
for mangroves. However, the project design did not provide for a mechanism
to decide on the most appropriate use of the reclaimed land at the end of the
mangrove rotation; that is, whether it should be transferred to other land uses
or whether it should be retained as permanent forest by reserving the area
and planting it with suitable inland species (para 5.8); and
(c) The spacing for Keora in mangrove plantations was increased from 4 ' x 4' to
5 'x 5' to reduce cost and unnecessary thinning. This was a reasonable
decision, as thinning was ultimately totally abandoned for a number of
reasons (para 5.4).
4.6     A shortcoming in the project design was the provision for thinning to be carried
out departmentally. A better alternative would have been to contract out this operation as
the thinning process burdened the project staff with additional work. Also, inadequate fund
allocations and delayed releases hampered the achievement of the project target. In
addition, in retrospect, it was unrealistic to phase the project execution over a period of five
years, because under Bangladesh conditions, cycles of about seven years have been found
to be more practical. Field staff were placed under pressure to achieve planting targets,
with the threat of quality being sacrificed for quantity.
4.7     Organization. Three agencies from two ministries implemented the project: FD
and the Bangladesh Forest Research Institute (BFRI) under the Ministry of Environment
and Forest, and the Institute of Forestry of Chittagong University (IFCU) under the Ministry
of Education.  In addition, the Bangladesh Space Research and Remote Sensing
Organization (SPARRSO), under the Ministry of Defense, provided technical assistance in
the area of aerial photography and forest data. FD, being the primary Government agency
responsible for the management of forest resources, was selected as the lead agency. BFRI
was chosen to assume control from FD of the Plantation Trial Unit (PTU) responsible for
mangrove research because its work had not proceeded well under FD during the first
Mangrove Afforestation Project. SPARRSO was chosen to monitor the progress of
2. Ffiling in of vacances.
3. Char - mud flat.



5
mangrove plantation establishment because it had done so successfully under MAP. IFCU,
established in 1977, being the only institute providing professional forestry training in
Bangladesh, was given responsibility for it under the project.
4.8    This rather complex organization and FD ' s coordination of it generally worked
well. However, particular problems were created by (a) late agreement of contract terms
between FD and SPARRSO, which disrupted the monitoring of mangrove planting (para
5.9); (b) delays in the release of funds by FD; and (c) inadequate staffing support from
BFRI, which hindered work by PTU where implementation of the mangrove research
program remained weak (para 5.10).
5 Project Implementation
5.1     Credit effectiveness and project start-up. Following two extensions of the terminal
dates, the Credit became effective in June 1986, about six months after the signing. This
was due to delays by GOB in meeting three of the five conditions of effectiveness:
(a) approval of Project Proformas (PPs) by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC); (b) approval of the UNDP project document; and
(c) appointment of architectural consultants.
5.2    Implementation schedule.  The project was scheduled to be completed by
December 31, 1990, and the Credit was to have been closed by June 30, 1991. However,
the Credit closure was extended by one year to June 30, 1992, which was necessary to allow
continuation of funding to the forestry sector until the start of a follow-up project in July
1992, and to facilitate completion of the remaining physical targets of the project. IDA,
however, had withheld any further support to the Forest College at Chittagong and Forest
School at Sylet pending satisfactory resolution of the recruitment issues (para 5.17).
5.3    Implementation of the five project components was broadly successful, although
with considerable variances from the original schedule of activities.
5.4    Mangrove plantations. Mangrove afforestation was on course initially but lagged
after three years, mainly due to non-availability of suitable land. With extension of the
Credit to June 1992, about 96% of the planned planting was reported by FD to have been
achieved. The verifying data of SPARRSO (para 5.9), however, indicates that only 64% of
the plantations were successfully established (although about 20% of actual plantings were
damaged or destroyed by the 1991 cyclone). Maintenance targets were 100% achieved for
vacancy filling and climber cutting, and 73% for thinning of 26,000 ha. Thinning was
stopped in 1991, on the recommendations of the field silviculturist, because (a) it did not
increase growth significantly, (b) size did not affect price (and in any case stemborer attack
reduced the chances of producing higher quality wood), (c) cost exceeded revenues, and (d)
thinning did not improve the attainment of other objectives like protection and land
stabilization.



6
5.5     A serious insect attack problem arose with the main species planted - Keora
(Sonneratia apetala). The BFRI survey carried out in 1989 reported that 52% of the Keora
stands had been attacked by stemborer. An expatriate entomologist consultant was engaged
and, he and the project silviculturist, proposed control measures. Field trials are needed
immediately to find effective measures to control and prevent the stemborer attacks which
increase vulnerability to strong winds and confine use to fuelwood, thereby decreasing the
economic value of the trees.
5.6     At appraisal, the possibility of cyclone damage to mangroves was identified as a
risk and this proved correct. A severe cyclone struck in April 1991, damaging transport and
infrastructure, and an FD survey recorded that up to 20% of young plantations established
under the project were destroyed. On the other hand, the beneficial effect which older
mangrove plantations may have had in lessening the cyclone damage and loss of life was not
assessed. However, even though the risk was identified, the defined scope of the project did
not allow for repair or replacement of buildings or boats destroyed by the cyclone.
Although GOB undertook to assume this responsibility, nothing has been done so far.
5.7     As a condition of credit effectiveness, an interministerial coordinating committee
was formed with the responsibility of allocating newly accreted land to FD for afforestation,
stabilization, further accretion and soil ripening. However, allocation did not keep pace with
the planting program and there are instances of planting having taken place in anticipation
of formal allocation to FD. This raises the attendant risk that the investment may be wasted
if the allocation is not subsequently made.
5.8     No similar coordinating committee exists to decide upon appropriate land use once
stabilization and soil ripening are complete. This has hindered decisions on whether to
provide the land for agricultural purposes or retain it by FD for the creation of permanent
shelter belts planted with successional species.
5.9     SPARRSO was engaged by FD to monitor mangrove plantation establishment by
remote sensing and ground survey, but the contract to do so was not signed until September
1989. Because of this delay, four seasons of planting were already completed and the
objective of annual monitoring was never achieved. This may have had an effect on the
lower than expected plantation establishment (para 5.4).
5.10    Mangrove afforestation research. The program carried out by PTU has made
some progress, but there is little evidence of positive impact so far. Research has included
work on the eight topics which were specified by the research consultant, but trial plots were
insufficiently replicated. This was mainly due to weak management, incomplete staffing and
limited logistical support, and inadequate coordination between BFRI and FD. Staffing
problems of PTU have been considerable. The officer-in-charge has to divide his time
between Barisal and Khulna. Of the four Junior Research Officer posts, one was vacant
until 1989/90 and another until 1991. Of the six Field Investigator posts, only three were
filled, and two of these were occupied by persons who have not moved from BFRI at
Chittagong to PTU at Barisal.



7
5.11    Industrial plantations.  The target of establishing 23,500 ha of industrial
plantations was 98% achieved. Initially there was a delay in establishing fuelwood (6 years)
and short rotation (18 years) plantations, due to land shortages resulting from GOBI's
slowness in writing off old, failed plantations which had to be replanted. Plantations of
mainly indigenous long rotation (40 years) species progressed well until 1989. Thereafter,
a scarcity of available lands, partly as a result of GOB 's prohibition of clear felling of
natural forest in 1990 and also the necessity to plant well away from village interference, led
to a shortfall of over 2,000 ha. This shortfall was largely offset by increased plantings of
exotic species for short rotation and fuelwood crops during the later stages of the project
period. However, problems have emerged. In early 1992 it was discovered that heart rot
was very extensive in Acacia mangium plantations over six years old, and there was also
some top die-back. The silviculture consultant recommended that planting of the species
should be stopped, that existing plantations should be clear cut and that the affected areas
be replanted with indigenous species. Mature plantations of Periserianthes falcataria (syn.
Albizia moluccana) in the Sylhet Division are also suffering insect infestation, but this is
being treated by clear felling infested plantations and replacing them with admixture or
other species.
5.12    Although the maintenance of young plantations was completed, thinning of older
plantations reached only 83% of the target. Inadequate funding and lack of timely release
of funds by GOB were contributing factors to the shortfall.
5.13    The influx of some 270,000 Rohingya refugees into the Cox I s Bazar Division from
Myanmar in 1991 and 1992 may have some adverse effect upon plantation growth.
Although provided with food, the refugees scoured the countryside for fuelwood to cook it.
The mission was told that the wood was mostly obtained from natural forests and that only
about 80 ha of project plantations were destroyed. This situation may worsen if supplies
from accessible natural forests become exhausted and the people are not repatriated in the
near future. A crash program to deal with the emergency may then be required.
5.14    Resource management system. The implementation of a Resource Information
Management System (RIMS) to help in the efficient application of modern technology in
forest management has made slow progress due to shortage of qualified staff and inadequate
training of field staff. After the completion of detailed inventories, the management plans
for industrial plantations in Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox' s Bazar Divisions were completed
at the end rather than at the beginning of the project.  This hindered project
implementation, as annual planting and maintenance programs had to be cleared by the
Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF). A manual for the preparation of
management plans was produced and approved.
5.15    Unfortunately, a management plan for mangrove plantations was not completed,
but it was agreed in 1991 that a manual for mangrove afforestation would be produced first;
this has been done.



8
5.16    Although RIMS was introduced in FD, the project made little progress in
motivating people to protect and manage forests for sustained production. The socio-
economic survey manual, designed under the project, was merely a guide to foresters for
identifying and avoiding sites which were potentially problematic, and it fell far short of
providing a framework for people ' s participation in forestry management. Indeed in many
places, Eucalyptus, which is not suitable, appears to have been planted to keep people out
of the forest rather than provide them with a benefit. It would have been more appropriate
to plant multipurpose tree species on land neighboring densely populated rural communities.
5.17    Institutional capability. The development of institutional capability by improving
and expanding national forestry education and training made variable progress. Civil works
at IFCU were much delayed, but eventually completed. Works at the Forest College at
Chittagong and the Forest School at Sylhet could not be started due to inordinate delays in
designing the buildings and completing contractual arrangements. The problem was
compounded by GOB es indecision on FD 's recruitment and education policies, which
caused IDA to withdraw its support for the component. However, in spite of inadequate
physical facilities, the professional training courses at IFCU progressed well, producing 115
graduates in seven batches. At the Forest College, on the other hand, there was an 18-
month interruption in training activities after year three of the project. Then in 1991 and
1992, short in-service training courses were held for staff from the level of Deputy Ranger
up to Deputy Conservator of Forests, but training courses to convert Forest Rangers to full-
fledged professionals were never introduced. At the Sylhet Forest School, the training of
Forest Guards reached 100 per year instead of the agreed 150 because the course duration
was extended from three to four months; consequently, only two instead of three courses
were held annually. Foresters have not been trained due to limited facilities and non-
recruitment.
5.18    Project costs. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$36 million
equivalent. Although the final cost was about US$33.7 million equivalent (Part III, SA), the
decrease was mainly due to the depreciation of the Taka against the Dollar (US$1.00 is now
equivalent to Tk 38.95 compared to Tk 28.50 at appraisal), and to the discontinuation of the
civil works program at the Chittagong Forest College and the Sylhet Forest School (para
5.17). There was a cost overrun at IFCU, owing mainly to price escalation on civil works.
Also, GOB 's contribution rose from 10% to 21 % of total project cost (Part III, SB), due
mainly to higher cost of plantation maintenance, increase in staff salaries and non-transfer
of staff to the revenue budget, as agreed at appraisal. The effect of these higher costs was
compounded because the percentage of them which could be offset by disbursements from
the IDA Credit was set to decline from 90% to 30%, and GOB was left with heavy costs in
the latter part of the project.
5.19    IDA disbursement. The disbursements proceeded smoothly, though there were
occasional backlogs in claims by FD. The IDA Credit of SDR 27.1 million was reduced to
SDR 23.1 million in September 1991 when SDR 4.0 million was cancelled at the request of
GOB in anticipation of savings.  Actual disbursement at the Credit closing date,



9
June 30, 1992, was SDR 17.5 million. The undisbursed balance of SDR 5.6 million was
cancelled.
5.20    UNDP disbursement. Out of a total US$4.3 million, about US$3.7 million was
spent.
5.21    Credit allocation. The Credit allocation was revised in September 1991 when
SDR 4.0 million was cancelled from the unwithdrawn proceeds of the following categories:
(1) civil works, (2) vehicles and equipment, (3a) mangrove plantations, and (3b) industrial
plantations. At the same time, IDA reallocated from category (6) unallocated, as follows:
SDR 0.5 million each to categories (3c) fuelwood plantation, (4) maintenance of existing
plantations, and (5) staff salaries and operating costs. This was done in anticipation of
additional financing needs materializing under these categories.
5.22    Project risks. Project risks were fairly accurately identified at appraisal. The
sedimentation rates in certain parts of the delta actually exceeded expectations, resulting in
losses of young plantations, and yearly plantation targets had to be reduced substantially.
A strong cyclone in April 1991 damaged about 20% of the project ' s young plantations (para
5.6). However, the risks of disease and insect infestation which adversely affected
productivity of large-scale monoculture plantations were not foreseen and manifested
themselves in: (a) stemborer infestation in Keora for which only interim control measures
were available (para 5.5); (b) heart rot attack of Acacia mangium for which clear felling and
replacement by other species is the only remedy so far proposed (para 5.11); and (c) insect
attack on Moluccana (Albizia falcataria) necessitating adniixture or replacement with other
species (para 5.11).
6 Project Results
6.1     Project objectives. Overall, the project was successful in meeting its primary
objective of expanding the resource base and ensuring that it was properly maintained.
About 48,000 ha of new forests were created, 38,000 ha were cleared and 34,000 ha of new
and existing plantations were thinned.
6.2     Project benefits. One of the direct benefits of the project based on FD statistics
of planting establishment will be the production of about 5.8 million m3 of wood (Part III,
6A). This is considerably less than the appraisal estimate of 16.6 million m3 due to a
reduction in yield estimates (para 6.5), and less than expected established areas. The
additional supplies of fuelwood and poles will benefit the urban and rural poor. Though
data are not available, it can be assumed that the project has achieved the target of 63,400
person-years of labor employment within the project period. While information to quantify
all benefits is lacking, mangrove plantations have undoubtedly stabilized accretions; and, in
the longer term, much of these lands will be available for agriculture. Another non-
quantifiable benefit of mangrove plantations may be the favorable effect on nearshore fish
stocks and yields.



10
6.3     Project impact. As regards institutional strengthening, FD's Resource Information
Management System was successfully established, but is still in the process of becoming fully
operational. In the field of human resources development, the strengthening of a professional
foresters' education facility was a gain to the sector. However, little gain emerged in technical
forestry training. The benefits of mangrove research are mainly long term and their impact
cannot yet be assessed.
6.4     There was no environmental assessment for the project, but its main environmental
impact has been positive, by creating forests throughout the coastal areas.  No specific
information is available on the effects of the April 1991 cyclone on the plantations. However,
it was reported that the local population perceived maturer plantations to have had a protective
function.   As envisaged, the industrial plantations would contribute towards arresting
deforestation and would have a positive impact on microclimate and the general environment in
the project area.
6.5      Growth and yield of plantations. Yield estimates assumed at appraisal for mangroves
were over-optimistic and based on a mean annual increment (MAI) of 19.1 m3'ha over a ten-year
rotation and producing only fuelwood. Based an a new survey carried out by FD in 19934, the
MAI for mangroves has now been estimated at 8 m3'ha for ten-year rotation and 6.9 m3'ha for
seventeen-year rotation. MAI appraisal estimates for industrial plantations were 20.7 m3/ha for
short-rotation plantations, 24.7 m3/ha for Albizia moluccana, 7.8 m3'ha for intermediate-rotation
plantations and 9.5 m31ha for long- rotation plantations. The corresponding PCR estimates are
9.3 m3'ha5, 24.5 m3'ha, 8.9 m3'ha, and 4.7 m3'ha. Detailed estimates of yield and output are
given in Table 5 of the Annex.
6.6     Economic re-evaluation. In line with the appraisal, economic rates of return (ERR)
have been calculated for mangrove afforestation, industrial plantations and for the project as a
whole. The economic life of the project, assumed for various plantations, is the same as
appraisal, except for mangrove afforestation, which has been assumed at 17 years, compared to
10 years at appraisal. The analysis has been carried out in 1991/92 prices, calculations of which
are shown in Tables 6, 7 and 8 of the Annex to this PCR. For valuing the project's wood
production, the method of calculation (Annex 1, Tables 3 and 4) follows that employed in
appraisal and also in the recent appraisal (May 1992) of the follow-up forestry project.
Comparison of these prices, in real terms, estimated at appraisal and currently by the PCR
mission, is shown in Table 2, of the Annex. As in the appraisal, the without-project land use
benefits have not been considered in the ERR calculations since such benefits would be
insignificant. Similarly, a number of with-project land use benefits that are difficult to evaluate,
have been ignored in the re-estimation of the project's ERR. These include, for instance, faster
land reclamation and reduction to cyclone damage in the coastal area resulting from the
4.  The PCR, initially prepared by the FAO/CP PCR-mission, has been revised on the basis of the yield estimates
from this survey. It should be noted however that yields recorded in that survey may be too low for project
plantations since these yields were measured in un-managed mature plantations and improperly maintained
young plantations.
5.  22.2 m3'ha for Albizia mangiun.



11
establishment of project mangrove plantations, and soil and moisture conservation benefits from
reforestation of denuded hills.
6.7     Based on the above assumptions, the current ERR estimates are shown below:
Appraisal                PCR
Industrial          22%                    16%
Mangrove             17%                   6%
Total               20%                    13%
6.8     The revised economic analysis carried out for mangrove plantations indicates a
significantly lower rate of return than the opportunity cost of capital (estimated at 12%). This
is mainly due to (a) the significant difference between the SAR and PCR estimates for tree
growth rates, (b) an 84% overrun in plantation establishment and maintenance costs, and (c) less
than expected project plantings. The revised ERR for industrial plantations is also lower than
the SAR estimate when the recent growth rates provided by the Borrower are used. These rates
are very conservative for both mangroves and industrial plantations, since they are based on
measurements taken in unmanaged mature plantations and poorly maintained young plantations.
7 Project Sustainability
7.1     During the latter part of the project, GOB did, in fact, meet 70%  of plantation
maintenance, staff salaries and other operating costs (para 5.18), indicating its ability to sustain
the project without resorting to external financing.
7.2     The project's support to the forest sector has mainly concentrated on the need to ensure
a sustainable supply of forest products and services. Following that, the project's emphasis has
been on developing forest plantations, better management of existing resources, and improving
the effectiveness of sector institutions. While these aspects are important and are expected to
be achieved, experience shows the need for a broader approach to forest development. To
ensure longer term sustainability, reforms in the following areas would also be necessary: (a)
environment and nature conservation; (b) forest land use and people's participation in sector
development; and (c) pricing of forest products sold to public sector agents. Since the follow-up
Forest Resources Management Project (FRMP) has adequately emphasized these aspects, long-
term development under the project may also be considered sustainable.
8 IDA Performance
8.1     Through the project, IDA made a positive contribution to the physical and institutional
development of the sector and ensured that continued external financing requirements were met.
The project was generally well conceived and the SAR provided the required framework and
guidelines for implementation of the project. IDA's supervision effort was adequate, with a high



12
degree of staffing continuity. In addition, IDA's Resident Mission in Dhaka was in continual
touch with project level staff and made regular field visits. This helped in prompt resolution of
project implementation issues not foreseen during appraisal.
9 Borrower Performance
9.1     The Borrower's performance in carrying out its obligations was generally satisfactory.
FD demonstrated its capacity to undertake large-scale planting, especially the establishment of
mangrove plantations, under difficult circumstances. However, the following shortcomings to
be avoided in preparing and implementing other projects were observed during implementation:
(a) six months, instead of three, were taken in meeting the credit effectiveness
conditions and this resulted in a delay in project start-up;
(b) clear institutional mechanisms to allocate stabilized coastal lands to their most
appropriate use were not developed to ensure optimum productivity consistent
with protection of the environment;
(c) the preparation and approval of forest management plans were delayed
considerably, hindering resource expansion and the management program;
(d) a shortage of counterpart funding and  late releases hindered  project
implementation;
(e) delay in contracting SPARRSO prevented the achievement of annual monitoring
of mangrove planting; and
(f)  due to GOB's indecision on FD's recruitment and training policies, the civil
works programs at the Forest College and Forest School could not be started
under the project, and technical training suffered.
10 Lessons Learned
10.1    The main lessons to be learned from project experience are:
(a) a project period of five years is unrealistic in Bangladesh, where about seven
years has been found to be more practical;
(b) socio-economic considerations and people's participation should have been given
greater prominence in project design and execution;
(c) scope should have been made for repairs arising from possible cyclone damage,
which had been identified as a risk at appraisal;



13
(d) new staffing and recruitment policies should have been agreed and put into effect
at the start of the project to facilitate smooth implementation of the project's
education and training components;
(e) there are dangers in planting with relatively untried species on an unprecedented
large scale, as the serious disease problems with Keora, Acacia mangium and
Albizia moluccana have revealed; and
(f) the need for adequate monitoring by an independent body on an annual basis.
11 Adherence to Covenants
11.1    Generally, Development Credit Agreement covenants were complied with. There
were, however, frequent delays in providing adequate budgetary funds and in the submission of
audit reports. The preparation of forest management plans was also delayed considerably
(para 5.14).
12 Consultancv Services
12.1    Consultancy services were derived from UNDP grant funding. Funds were spent on
consultancies, training and inputs to the IFCU. These consultancies concerned silviculture,
forest management plans and management systems, inputs to forest land use planning, socio-
economic studies, forest entomology, coastal land stabilization, mangrove research, forest
inventory and inputs to the Forest College and Forest School. The performance of consultants
was satisfactory and has been particularly effective in: (a) developing RIMS; (b) carrying out
inventories and preparing forest management plans and manuals; and (c) imparting professional
level training at the IFCU.
13 Project Relationship
13.1   IDA's relationships with the Government and the project and cofinancing agencies have
been good.
14 Project Documentation and Data
14.1    The Development Credit Agreement was adequate and appropriate for achieving project
objectives. The SAR provided an adequate framework for project implementation. Most of the
data relevant to the preparation of the PCR, except for confirmed figures of areas planted and
research data on yields of industrial tree species and stands, were readily available. The
Borrower mobilized resources and generated new yield data at the last moment, after the initial
preparation of Parts I and III of the PCR. However, the new growth information is highly



14
conservative because it is based on measurements taken in existing plantations which have been
subject to inadequate management in the past.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER' S PERSPECTIVE6
15. Introduction
15.1       The project was undertaken by the Forest Department (FD) of Bangladesh with
the financial assistance from the World Bank in 1985. The aims of the project were:
(a) to increase the supply of forest production by improving the productivity of the
natural forests and expanding the existing plantations in the project area;
(b) to strengthen the forestry education, training and research institutions to
improve the capability of the Forest Department to carry out its on-going and
expanded programs; and
(c) to continue the afforestation of newly accreted land and institutional
strengthening of previously financed project under Credit 1042-BD.
15.2       The duration of the project was 7 years and was completed in 1992. A Project
Completion Report (Part I & III) was submitted by the World Bank to different
participating departments/institutions for their comments. The MOEF, therefore, felt the
need to make an economic evaluation of the project prior to the making of comments. A
committee was formed and was assigned to evaluate the ERR.
6. The Borrower prepared Part II of this PCR on the basis of a review of an earlier draft of Parts I and
III. References to the 'PCR" made in Part II reflect therefore the Borrower's comments on the earlier
draft of the PCR. In particular, the Borrower questioned some of the assumptions that had been made
in the re-estimation of the economic rates of return for mangrove and industrial plantations. Parts I
and III of this PCR have been revised taking into consideration the Borrower's observations on the
previous draft.



16
16. The Commi-tte
16.1     The MOEF was pleased to form a four member committee to evaluate the
economic rate of return (ERR) for the plantation components viz. (a) 6 years rotation for
fuelwood; (b) 12 years rotation for peeling log; (c) 18 years rotation for poic crops; (d) 40
years rotation for sawlogs; (e) Mangrove Plantation of the coastal areas and also to
determine; (f) the overall ERR for the completed Forestry II Project (Cr. 1634-BD) vide
letter no. MOEF/P-C/SFP/FOREST (10)/91-92/29 DT 12.5.1993. The members of the
committee are:
(a)  Dr. J. H. Chowdhury,Convenor,                 Convenor,
D.F.O. Working Plans Division, Ctg.
(b)  Mr. M. A. Latif, Divisional Officer-in-Charge,  Member,
Bangladesh Forest Research Institute, Ctg.
(c)  Mr. M. Makbul Hossain,                        Member,
Associate Professor of Forestry
Economics, Institute of Forestry,
Chittagong University, Ctg.
(d)  Mr. Istiaque Uddin Ahmed,                    Member-Secretary,
Officer-in-Charge, RIMS, Forest Management
16.2     The objective was later modified vide letter No. MOEF/P-C/SFP/Forest
(10)/91-92 dated nil, instructing the committee to evaluate the ERR of (a) Industrial
Plantation; (b) Mangrove Plantation and also to determine (c) the overall ERR of the same
project.
17. The Terms of Reference
17.1     The terms of reference of the committee were:
(a)  to generate adequate sampling data in all the components of the plantations for
determining the MAI for each species/category of plantations;
(b)  to evaluate the expected production of wood and other wood products from
various components of the plantations and to ascertain the stumpage value for
each category for calculating ERR; and
(c)  to take into consideration the problems of heart-rot in Acacia mangium and
stem borer attack in Keora.



17
17.2      The time allotted to the team for the evaluation was too short and again the age
distribution of the plantations raised under the project were not sufficiently well spread to
prepare the growth and yield tables by collecting data from the planted species raised under
the project. Therefore, available information in the BFRI and RIMS on the growth and
yield of the concemed species raised prior to the project were also utilized. Fresh data were
collected from the field where felt necessary to validate the growth and yield functions
developed earlier and to determine average site indices (SI) of the plantations of various
species raised during project period.
18. Methods
18.1      Major species planned under the project are:
(a)  Industrial plantations
(i) Short rotation of 6 years, for fuelwood: Eucalyptus camaldulensis, Acacia
mangium and A. auriculiformis mainly, in Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox ' s
Bazar Forest Divisions.
(ii) Short rotation of 12 years, for peelers: Paraserianthes falcatarin mainly, in
Sylhet Forest Division.
(iii) Short rotation of 18 years, for poles: Eucalyptus camaldulensis, Acacia
mangium and A. auriculiformis mainly, in Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox ' s
Bazar Forest Divisions.
(iv) Long rotation 40 years, for saw logs: Teak, Garjan, Dhakijam and
Mahogany mainly in Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox ' s Bazar Forest Divisions.
(b) Mangrove plantations
(i) Mangrove plantations on newly accreted land: Keora and Baen mainly
were raised in the newly accreted land of coastal areas of Chittagong,
Noakhali, Bhola and Patuakhali Coastal Afforestation Divisions.
19. Growth and Yield Forecast
19.1      Shortly after the committee was formed, additional field data were collected
from concerned Divisions to supplement available data of RIMS and Inventory Division of
the BFRI. The existing growth and yield tables of Teak, Garjan and Dhakijam under long
rotation prepared with the data collected during inventory of the forests of Sylhet,
Chittagong and Cox ' s Bazar, from older plantations, prior to Forestry II period, were used.



18
Data collected from the plantations raised during Forestry II project, for the same species,
were used to determine the average SI of the plantations raised during the project period.
19.2      For growth and yield of Malakana raised on 12 year rotation for peelers,
A. mangium, A. auriculiformis and E. camaldulensis raised on 6 year rotation (for fuelwood),
data collected from the plantations raised during the project period, as well as, existing data
of BFRI collected from the plantations raised prior to Forestry II period and even from the
plantations raised beyond project area, were used. Average SI of the plantations raised
during the project period were determined from the data collected from the plantations
raised under the project. Growth and yield of Keora was determined from the existing yield
table of BFRI.
19.3      The plantations of 18 year short rotation have been raised at 2.7 m  x 2.7 m
spacing. None of these plantations have reached rotation age. Therefore, extrapolation of
data from fuelwood plantations raised at 1.5 m x 1.5 m spacing were made to determine
the growth of the same species raised for poles on 18 year rotation at 2.7 m x 2.7 m
spacing.
19.4      Similarly, yield calculation, for the species under long rotation of 40 years of the
Industrial Plantation Component raised at 2.7 m x 2.7 m spacing, have been assumed from
the existing data of older plantations of the same species raised at 1.5 m x 1.5 m spacing
prior to Forestry II Project, by extrapolation. The weighted average yield (weighted by the
area of plantation) of each species group/mnixture under a particular rotation were then
determined and used for Economic Analysis.
20. Considerations for Yield and Economic Analyses
Heart-rot of Acacia mangium
20.1      Albizia mangium was introduced in a large scale plantation program for the
production of poles on 18 year rotation, under Forestry II project, considering its fast
growing nature. Later on, it was noticed that this species had been attacked with heart-rot
disease. The infestation rate is more than 70% in Chittagong and Cox ' s Bazar Divisions
and 50% in Sylhet Forest Division, as had been noticed by the Field Silviculturist (Draft
Working Paper No. 46, May 1992). The intensity must have increased to a greater extent
by now. He found the stems unsuitable for poles. Inquiries from ACIR, F/FRED project
Bangkok and FAO Headquarters revealed that heart-rot is a serious problem of A. mangium
in most tropical countries. So far, no control measure has been developed. In Bangladesh
the disease is widespread in all the three divisions of Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox ' s Bazar,
where a total of 3,330 ha have been planted with A. mangium under short rotation of 18
years (1,945 ha), for the production of poles, as well as under 6 year rotation for fuelwood
(1,385 ha). In case Mangium cannot be used as poles, it will be even uneconomic as
fuelwood for two reasons (i) the ratio of volume to weight and (ii) reduction of calorific



19
value of wood due to fungus attack. In that case, Mangium will not fetch the price expected
from it. It is possible that some sound poles may be available at harvest. But it is too early
to comment on the proportion of sound poles that may be available. The committee,
therefore, considers that Mangium should not be continued as a pole crop and should be
felled at 6 years, as has been recommended by the field silviculturist. For the evaluation
of ERR, the harvest of Mangium has been considered at 6 years as fuelwood.
Stem-borer attack of Keora
20.2      Keora (Sonneratia apetala) is the pioneer tree species that can be established
in the new accretions of the coastal areas. So far, 74, 227 ha of Keora plantations (RIMS
data) have been raised during the project period of seven years. Total plantation would be
much higher. The Forest Department has been raising coastal plantations since the later
half of the sixties. The primary objective of these plantations were to:
(a)  enhance the acceleration of accretion in the coastal areas;
(b)  create a renewable shelter belt for the protection of human lives and properties
against cyclones and tidal surge; and
(c)  ameliorate the adverse effects of environment by bringing more areas under
green cover. Production of timber in this case is an added benefit.
20.3      Later, it has been found that Keora are heavily attacked by an insect Zeuzera
conferta belonging to the family Cossidae - the beehole borers. The larvae of this insect
make innumerable tunnels in the stem of living trees. As a result, the timber renders
unsuitable for many purposes including poles and sawlogs. In an investigation by the BFRI,
the infestation rate was found to be more than 50% in some places.
20.4      Thinnings were carried out over a total area of 3,151.2 ha in the plantations of
1974, 1975, 1976, 1977, 1978, 1979, 1980, 1981, 1982 and 1983 during the fiscal years 1986-87
to 1990-91. A total of 9,559.3 CU3. of fuelwood and 882 number of poles were extracted at
a cost of Tk 3,717,250 realizing a revenue of only Tk 688,785. The loss incurred in the
operation was Tk 3,028,466. The field silviculturist had also considered the thinning as
uneconomic.
20.5      According to the PCR, the production of poles during final harvest at 17 years
has been estimated as 66% of the yield. In fact, it is too high because most of the poles
cannot be utilized as poles due to the presence of innumerable tunnels inside and has to be
sold as fuelwood. For the present evaluation of ERR, therefore, the committee considered
the production of poles and fuelwood as 34% and 66%, respectively.
20.6     The committee also considers that the price adopted for poles and fuelwood in
the PCR for calculating the ERR of the Mangrove Afforetation Component is too high,



20
though the committee has, therefore, made the present evaluation with the reduced price
of poles (Tk 1236/cu3.) which can only be used as house posts, but taken the price of
fuelwood same as in the PCR.
Coppicing of Eucalyptus
20.7      Except some sporadic pockets, the general growth of Eucalyptus is not very
promising in the Hill Forests, though good growth is noticed in many areas of the plain
districts. In the hill forests, the average diameter growth at rotation age of 6 years was
found to be 7.8 cm with a range from 3.0 cm to 15.0 cm. About 53% of stems are below
average in diameter. The fuelwood plantations are supposed to continue as a coppice
plantation for the next two rotations. The future of the coppice plantation is very uncertain
due to poor growth of this species. The research backup regarding the coppicing behavior
of the existing stock of Eucalyptus is also lacking. Non-coppicing/poor coppicing behavior
of A. Mangium and A. auriculiformis has also to be considered. The present evaluation of
the ERR, therefore, precludes the two coppice fellings at 12 and 18 years, considering that
the area has to be replanted after felling at 6 years.
Malakana
20.8      As regards the yield from Malakana of 12 year rotation, the production of
peelers was estimated to be 70% at harvest, in the PCR. In fact, it is too high because only
one or in exceptional cases two basal logs can be utilized as peeler logs. The record of
average production of peelers in Sylhet Forest Division during 1988-89 to 1992-93 was found
to be only 3.47% of the total harvest at 12 years. Therefore, the production of peeler logs,
for this evaluation, has been taken to be 5%. The price of Malakana peelers and pulpwood
has been considered as Tk 1,307.00 and Tk 530.00/m3 for this evaluation, which in fact, is
the revenue realized from the mills. Further, there are extraction and transportation costs
which have not been taken into account in this evaluation.
Thinnings
20.9     The PCR has taken into consideration two thinnings at 8 and 12 years for short
rotation of 18 years. The Management Plans (MP) of these divisions provide only one
thinning at 10 years for this rotation. The present evaluation has, therefore, been on the
basis of the MP. Yield will be less than expected in the PCR.
21. Site Indices and MAI
21.1      The yield data generated for evaluations are given in Tables 2 and 3 (pp. 24 and
25). The yield data used for PCR preparation are also presented in the same table for
comparison. The average site index used for yield estimation of Keora in the mangrove
plantations in the PCR was 15 at a base age of 12 years. This site index is higher compared



21
to the average site index obtained during the generation of the growth and yield model
prepared earlier as well as during the present evaluation for the same species (Table 1, p.
23). The overall average site index for Keora in the mangrove plantations was found to be
13.0. This is the reason for getting higher yield and ERR as mentioned in the PCR. Drigo
et al. (6) also observed similar yield as has been found in the present evaluation.
21.2      The yield data used for evaluation of the plantations of long rotation species
wwere also higher in the PCR. This may be due to the fact that the yield data of Teak
which are higher compared to two other major species, Garjan and Dhakijam, planted
during the present project period, might have been used while preparing the PCR.
21.3      The yield for fuelwood species Eucalyptus camaldulensis has been found to be
low in the present evaluation. This is due to the fact that the original data generated at
BFRI from the initial plantations of Eucalyptus camaldulensis raised at a closer spacing of
0.9 m x 0.9 m contributed to higher yield. It was observed that the diameter and height
growth for the trees of the species raised under the project were higher but the number of
trees per hectare were very low resulting in low yield. The yield obtained during the
preparation of growth and yield tables for Acacia Mangium for this evaluation was higher
compared to the average yield mentioned in the PCR. It may be mentioned here that the
provenances of Mangium planted in the forests are not the same as the one which showed
better performances during initial trials in the field stations of BFRI (10).
22. Economic Analysis
22.1      The economic analysis of the project has been carried out for (a) industrial
plantation component, (b) mangrove afforestation component, and (c) the project as a whole
(ANNEX 1 to 3B). As the time elapsed after the PCR is short and as price projection and
Consumer Price Index for 1993 are not available to the present evaluation committee, the
analysis has been carried out in 1992/93 prices. For valuing the project I s wood production,
economic prices determined in the PCR, Bangladesh Forestry II Project (Cr. 1634-BD) were
used (calculations are shown in Tables 5 and 6 pp. 27 and 28). Yearwise project costs were
also in 1991/92 constant prices (Table 7, p. 9). The without-project land use benefits have
not been considered in the current evaluation, as has been done in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) and the PCR. The estimates of ERR are presented in Table 4 (p. 26).
22.2      The table above shows that the ERRs determined by the present evaluation
committee for both Mangrove Afforestation and Industrial Plantation Components, and for
the whole project as well, were lower than those reported in the SAR and PCR. The
decrease in the ERR values may be attributed to lower yield/ha of different plantations and
timing of benefit streams resulting from thinning schedules practiced and felling schedules
assumed.



22
23. Conclusions
23.1      The Forestry II Project recommended E. camaldulensis, A. Mangium and A.
auniculiformis for large scale plantations. All the three exotic species have been recently
introduced in this country. The recommendations were probably made on the results
obtained from first hand trials for field research stations of the BFRI. The research backup
were not sufficient to introduce these exotics in such a large scale as all the steps of
introduction trials were not completed. As regards Eucalyptus, the wide genetic variations
are noticed from the plantations. This species is doing well in the plain districts but not so
well in the hill forest divisions. More intensive management practices, which include
fertilizer application, may improve the yield considerably, in the hill forests.
23.2      A. Mangium is a fast growing species. It was expected that the growing demand
of poles may largely be met from this species. The grain of timber is also good and is used,
in many cases, like A. auriculiformis in lieu of Teak in cabinet making industries, when
sound. In spite of its excellent growth, Mangium cannot be utilized for any purpose other
than fuelwood due to heart-rot disease. It is obvious that heart-rot reduces the strength
properties of the timber. But there are also opinions that metal poles are hollow and the
strength of the hollow poles are required at the periphery. In the case of timber too, the
strength will not be much reduced if Mangium poles are infected to some extent in the
center and if such poles are properly treated with chemicals. At present, there is no
research backup to determine the acceptable limit/extent of infestation of Mangium poles.
However, a disease resistant provenance of Mangium may be looked for introduction in the
plantation program after proper screening.
23.3      In the coastal areas of Bangladesh, Keora is the pioneer tree species in the plant
succession and has to be established in the new accretions. It cannot be avoided completely
from the plantation program. It can be replaced with more suitable and pest resistant
species when the land is stabilized and becomes ready to accept other species. In the
meantime, efforts should be made to find suitable control measures of the stem borer of
Keora. The intangible benefits of the mangrove plantations are too great as shelter belts,
accelerator of land accretions, land reclamation and land stabilization though the tangible
benefits are low. Planting of mangrove therefore, should not be discontinued.



23
EVALUATION OF PLANTATIONS
RAISED UNDER SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 1.  Basis of yield calculation for evaluation of the project.
GOB Evaluation                L
Average      Base        Average       Base
Species                   SI         Age           SI          Age
Teak                                 25.0    45 (3)
Garjan                               30.0    46 (1)
Dhakijam                             30.0    45 (2)
Malakana                             23.0    12 (12)
Keora                                13.0    12 (7)        15.0         12
Eucalyptus camaldulensis (5,8)
Sylhet                          15.7      6
Chittagong                      12.5      6
Cox's Bazar                     14.4      6
Acacia Mangium (9)
Sylhet                          14.0      6
Chittagong                      12.0      6
Cox's Bazar                     13.0      6
Acacia auriculiformis (10)
Sylhet                          11.0      6
Chittagong                      12.0      6
Cox's Bazar                     12.5      6
Note:      Reference used for yield calculations are shown in parenthesis.



24
EVALUATION OF PLANTATIONS
RAISED UNDER SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 2: Estimated MAI (m3/ha) and Average SI of Each Plantation Component
Plantation Component                                        MAI                     Averase SI
6 Year Rotation
Eucalyptus camaldulensis                                                         8.10                        13.50
Acacia auriculiformis                                                            6.30                        15.00
Aencia Mangium                                                                  20.70                        12.60
12 Year Rotation
Paraserienthes falcateria                                                                                    23.00
At 7 year:                                                                  20.71
At 12 years                                                                 21.75
17 Year Rotation
E. camaldulensis
At 6 years                                                                    7.80
At 12 years                                                                   9.70
At 18 years                                                                   9.20
A. auriculiformis
At 6 years                                                                    6.40
At 12 years                                                                   7.40
At 18 years                                                                   7.00
A. Mangium
At 6 yoars                                                                  22.20
At 12 years                                                                 26.10
At 18 years                                                                 21.90
40 Year Rotation
Tectona grandis                                                                                             25.00
At 12 years                                                                 11.22
At 18 years                                                                 10.37
At 25 years                                                                   8.89
At 40 years                                                                   6.39
Dipterocarpus turbinatus                                                                                    30.00
At 12 years                                                                   5.33
At 18 years                                                                   6.04
At 25 years                                                                   5.76
At 40 years                                                                   4.62
Syzigium grandis                                                                                            30.00
At 12 years                                                                   4.49
At 18 years                                                                   5.52
At 25 years                                                                   5.37
At 40 years                                                                   4.19
MANGROVE PLANTATION COMPONENT
Sonneratia apetata                                                                                           13.00
At 10 years                                                                   8.00
At 17 years                                                                   6.94



25
EVALUATION OF PLANTATIONS
RAISED UNDER SECOND FORESTRY
Table 3: Estimate Yield (m3/ha)
PCR                        GOB Evaluation
Years
after
Plantation Components             felling           Oujtpujt          M4AI Output                      KAI
MANGROVE PLANTATION
10 Year Rotation
Fuelwood                                  10            100.00            10.00           80.00            8.00
17 Year Rotation
Fuetwood                                  17             47.00                            68.00
Po Les                                    17             94.00                            50.00
TOTAL                                                   141.00             8.30          118.00            6.94
INDUSTRIAL PLANTATION
6 Year Rotation
Fuelwood                                   6            108.00            18.00            55.54           9.26
12 Year Rotation
Pulp wood                                  7             50.00                            44.00           20.71
12            74.00                           204.00
Peelers                                    12           170.00                            13.00
TOTAL                                                   294.00             24.50         261.0O            21.75
18 Year Rotation
Mangiu.m
Fuetwood                                   6                                             133.20           22.20
OTHERS
FueLwood                                   8             21.00
10                                             17.00            9.36
12            46.00
18            45.00                            22.00
Poles                                      10                                             12.00
12            23.00
18            68.00                            33.00
SawLogs                                    12             8.00
18           113.00                             76.00
TOTAL                                                 324.00              18.00          160.00            8.89
40 Year Rotation
Fuetwood                                  12              6.30                             4.85            5.58
25             3.40                             2.73             5.91
40            33.50                            25.76
Poles                                      12            14.60                            11.06
25            47.30                            36.36
SawLogs                                   40            137.40                           104.85
TOTAL                                                   242.50             6.06          185.60            4.64



26
EVALUATION OF PLANTATIONS
RAISED UNDER SECOND FORESTRY
Table 4. Economic Rate of Return of Different Components of the Forestry
II Project.
Project Component               SAR         PCR         GOB
Mangrove Afforestation                      17          12         4.20
Industrial Plantation                       22          22         14.50
Project as a whole                          20          18         10.98



27
EVALUATION OF PLANTATIONS
RAISED UNDER SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 5: Economic Price of Fuelwood
Tk/ft
Price of kerosene (1992), CIF Chittagong (US$ 30.4/barrel)
Plus: Local handling charge, storage & transport cost to
retail markets/                                                      7.4
Economic value of kerosene on retail market                          3.2
Retail market price                                                 10.6
Conversion factor for kerosene (10.6 divided by 13) - 0.82   13.0
Mangrove Fuelwood                                                   Tk/ft3   Tk/m3
Retail market price                                                 22.0
Deduct: Cost of extraction, transport and Marketing                 15.0
Stumpage value at market price                                       7.0      247
Economic stumpage value: (7.0 x 0.82)                                5.7      201
Industrial Plantation Fuelwood
Retail market price                                                 29.0
Deduct: Cost of extraction, transport and marketing                 18.0
Stumpage value at market prices                                     11.0      388
Economic stumpage value: 11 x 0.82)                                  9.0      318
Source:   Project Completion Report,  Second Forestry Project, Credit 1634-80.
1993.
&/   Adjusted by Standard Conversion Factor 0.8.



28
EVALUATIONS OF PLANTATIONS
RAISED UNDER SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 6: Economic Price of Logs and Conversion Factor
USS/mI         Tk/ft3         Tk/m`
Economic Stumpage Value
Projected FOB price for Malaysian Meranti round Logs for the year
2000 in constant 1992 price'                                                        268.00      296
Less: Bangladesh quality adjustment (33X)                                           73.92        82
Plus: Insurance and freight to Chittagong                                           21.00        23
Projected price of average quality Bangladesh sawlog CIF
Chittagong                                                                          215.08      237
Plus: Port handling and transport cost to wholesale market!'
9
Less: Cost of extraction and transport from extraction area to
wholesale markett'                                                                               72
Economic stumpage value                                                                         174
Stumpage value at market prices                                                                 350
Wholesale market price of average quality log                                                    90
Less: Cost of extraction and transport from extraction area to
wholesale market                                                                                260
Stumpage value at market price
Log price conversion factor (174 divided by 260)  *  0.67
Economic Stumpage Value of Other Wood Products
Peelers:        Stumpage value at market priceJ                                                 120             4,327
Economic Stumpage Value                                                         80             2,825
Poles:          Stumpage value at market prices'                                                 74             2,613
Economic Stumpage Value                                                         50             1,766
Sawlogs:        Stumpage value at market prices                                                 155             5,473
Economic Stumpage Value                                                        104             3,672
Source:   Project Completion Report, Second Forestry Project, Credit 1634-80.
1993.
1/   World Bank, International Economics Department, July 1992.
f-~'  Adjusted by Standard Conversion Factor of 0.82.
v."  The following mix has been assumed: lOX transmission poles, 90Z
house poles.



29
REFERENCES
(a)  Ahmed,  I.U. and Dalmacio, M.V.  1989, Growth and Yield of Garjan.
Draft working paper No. 23. FAO/UNDP project BGD/85/085. Bangladesh.
(b)  Anon.  1993.  1993.   Project Completion Report.   Bangladesh Second
Forestry Project (Credit 1634-BD). Agriculture Operations Division.
Country Report 1. South Asia Region.
(c)  Dalmacio, M.V. and Ahmad, I. V. 1991.  Growth and Yield Prediction
Models for Dhakijam (SvzvYium trade), Draft working paper No. 42,
FAO/UNDP project BGD/85/085. Bangladesh.
(d)  Dalmacio, M.V. and Ahmed, I. V. 1989.  Growth and Yield of Teak in
Sylhet and Silvicultural Implications. Draft working paper No. 19.
FAO/UNDP project BGD/85/085. Bangladesh.
(e)  Davidson, J; Das, S; Khan, S.A.; Latif M.A. and Zashimuddin, 1985 Tree
Volume Tables for Small Eucalypti Roundwood in Bangladesh. S.R. Div.
Bulletin No. 4, BFRI, Chittagong.
(f)  Drigo, R; Latif, M.A.; Chowdhury J.A. and Shahaduzzaman, M. 1987.  The
Maturing Mangrove Plantations of the Coastal Afforestation Project.
Field Document No. 2, FAO/UNDP Project BCD/85/085. Bangladesh.
(g)  Latif, M.A. and Del Castillo, R.A. 1990.  Growth and Yield of Keora
(Buch, Ham) in the plantations of Bangladesh. Bangladesh Journal of
Forest Science. 19(1&2): 11-18.
(h)  Latif, M.A.; Sukumar Das and Rahman, M.F. 1992.  Growth and Yield of
Eucalyptus  camaldulensis  in Bangladesh.   Final report BARC/BFRI.
Contract Research Project.  Studies on the Growth and Yield of Some
Selected Indigenous and Exotic Species with Particular Reference to
Different Site. (Personal communication).
(i)  Latif, et.al.  1992.  Growth and Yield of Acacia Mangiums wild in the
plantations in Bangladesh. Final report BARC/BFRI. Contract Research
Project. Studies on the growth and yield of some selected indigenous
and exotic species with particular reference to different site.
(j)  Zashimuddin,   M.; Latif, M.A.; Khan,  S.A.  and Davidson, J. 1983.
Performance of different provenances of Acacia Mangium wild in the
Chittagong Zone. 12(1&2): 51-61.
(k)  Latif et. al. 1992.  Growth and Yield of Acacia auriculiformis in the
plantations in Bangladesh. Final report BARC/BFRI. Contract Research
project. Studies on the growth and yield of some selected indigenous
and exotic species with particular reference to different site.
(1)  Latif et.al.   1992.  Growth and yield of Paraserianthes falcataria
wild in the plantations  in Bangladesh.   Final report BARC/BFRI.
Contract Research project.  Studies on the growth and yield of some
selected indigenous and exotic species with particular reference to
different site.






30
PROJEC COMPLETION REPOR
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJET
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATON
1. Related IDA Credits
Cret Ite                                       PpMe                             Date of 
AMm
Mangrove Afforestation   To accelerate the accretion of newty formed lands and to  06/80       Completed 06/86
Project (Cr. 1042-BD)    stabilize them, and to increase the production of fuehwood
and industrial wood through establishment of 40,000 ha of
mangrove plantations and through the management of
about 30,000 ha of previously established plantations.
Second Agricultural      To strengthen the Bangladesh Forestry Research Institute  03/84       Completed 06/92
Research Project         (BFRI) by providing facilities for species introduction, tree
(Cr. 1455-BD)            breeding and testing, and a bio-statistics unit, and by
providing essential machinery, equipment and vehicles and
infrastructure.
Forest Resources         To: (a) establish and maintain a forest management stem  06/92       Ongoing. Credit wM
Management Project       that is fully responsive to the economic, environ-mental and        signed on July 10, 1992
(Cr. 2397-BD)            social goals of the country, (b) improve the productivity of
Government-owned forests in order to meet the country's
wood and energy needs; and (c) protect the country's
environment. The project is expected to be completed in
June 2000.
2. Project Timetable
Item                                           Date Planned                          Actual Date
Identification                                                                       August 1983
Preparation                                   November 1983                  November/December 1983
Appraisal                                     September 1984                 November/December 1984
Negotiations                                     May 1985                          September 1985
Board Approval                                 October 1985                       November 12, 1985
Credit Signature                                      -                           December 19, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                          March 19, 1986                         June 5, 1986
Credit Closing                                 June 30, 1991                         June 30, 1992  /
Project Completion                          December 31, 1990                        June 30, 1992
1/ Books of account, however, were kept open until October 31, 1992, to allow disbursement against the
eligible expenditures incurred before the closing date. All withdrawal applications for eligible expenses
were received by June 19, 1992.



31
3. Credit Disbursements
fiulatiw Eiiatd and AcItu  Disul_meats
(SDR u )illima)
IDA  F1cal Year                 85K/6       86/87       87/lE       88/89       89/90       90/91
Appraisal Estimate                3           7           12          18          24          28
Actual-/                         2.3         4.9         7.9         11.1        13.5        17.5
Actual as % of Estimate          77          70          66           62          56          64
1/ The final undisbursed balance of SDR 5,609,250.70 was cancelled on June 19, 1992.
4. Project Implementation
A. Key Indicators - Physical Program
Program                                                    Unit            SAR Taret         Actual Adi tvcmns
Mangrve Plantatioe                                          Ha               40,000                38,844
Mangrmve Plantatioios a inta
(a) Young plantations (vacancy filling)                     Ha                28,000               28,000
(b) Climber cutting                                         Ha                26,000               25,545
(c) Older plantations (thinning)                            Ha                26,000                19,305
Industrial Plantaticm                                       Ha                23,500                23,115
Industrial Plantatio  Maintn
(a) Young plantations (clearing)                            Ha                10,000                10,000
(b) Older plantations (thinning)                            Ha                18,000                15,000
Support Service
(a) Residential/Office buildings                            No.                 162                  113
(b) Service roads                                           Km                  770                   -1/
(c) Wooden boats                                            No.                 87                    80
(d) 4-wheel drive vehicles                                  No.                 40                    34
(e) Motorcycles                                             No.                 33                    36
(f) Bicycles                                                No.                 73                    66
(g) Wireless sets                                           Set                 29                     3
Education and Training
(a) Academic building/staff houses                     % Completion             100                   95 2/
(b) Teaching/laboratory equipment                      % Completion             100                  100
(c) Books and joumals                                  % Completion             100                  100
(d) Vehicles                                                No.                  9                     6
(e) Overseas fellowships for teaching staff                 No.                 10                     6
(f) Expatriate teaching staff                          Person-months           236                   232
Technial Assianc
(a) Forest Management Planners                         Person-months            12                    21
(b) Field Silviculturists                              Person-months            24                    22
(c) Mangrove Research Consultants                      Person-months             4                     5.5
(d) Coastal Geomorphology Consultants                  Person-months             -                     2.5
1/ Data not available.
2/ IFCU only, works at college and school did not commence under the project.



32
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Appmisl Estimate                  Actual (PCR Psimate) 1/
(Ua   million)                       (USS miion)
Comp     t                                   1oca      Foreip        Total        Loal        Forcig       Total
Mangrove Afforestation                      7.2          0.8          8.0         11.00        0.15        11.15
Industrial Plantations                      93           1.5         10.8         14.27        0.07        14.34
Institute of Forestry                       1.0          1.9          2.9         2.67         2.20         4.87
Forest College - Chittagong                 0.2          05           0.7         051          0.07         0.58
Forest School - Sylhet                      1.1          1.0          2.1         0.47         0.04         0.51
Departmental Training                        -           1.1          1.1         0.15         0.30         0.45
Resource Management Program                 0.5          1.0          1.5         0.28         1.02         1.30
Mangrove Afforestation Resarch              03           0.1          0.4         0.36         0.10         0.46
Total Baeline CAx                           196          7.9          27.5          -            -           -
- Physical Contingencies                    0.8          0.2          1.0
- Price Contingencies                       6.6          0.9          7.5           -            -           -
Total Project Coda                          27.0         9.0         36.0         29.71        3.95        33.66
/ Average annual exchange rates used are USS1.00 - Tk30.00, 30.85, 31.21, 32.10, 32.94, 35.63 and 38.14 for the years 1985/86
to 1991/92 respectively.
B. Project Financing
Souce                                     Pkncd                                      Fna      ate)
(USS min)                  (%)                (USS million)               (%)
IDA                             28.0                    78                     22.9                    68
UNDP                             43                     12                     3.7                     11
GOB                              3.7                    10                     7.1                     21
Total                           36.0                   100                     33.7                   100



33
6. Proiect Results
A.  Diret Bentfit
Production                                   Appraisal Estimate                      PCR Estimate
. .................. (mi3 million) .
Fuelwood
- Mangrove                                           7.76                                  1.87
- Industrial                                         4.02                                  1.48
Total Fuelwood                                       11.78                                 3.35
Peelers                                              0.57                                  0.02
Poles
- Mangrove                                             -                                   0.49
- Industrial                                         1.08                                  0.64
Total Poles                                          1.08                                  1.13
Sawlogs                                              3.17                                  1.27
Total Production                                    16.60                                  5.78
B. Economic Impact
Economic Rates of Return                   Appraisal Estimate (%o)                 PCR Estimate (%)
Mangrove Afforestation                                17                                     6
Industrial Plantation                                 22                                    16
Total Project                                         20                                    13
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)
D. Studies
Study                                        Purpowe   Dcfined at Apprakal                   Status
(a) Socio-economic survey of industrial  To identify the full range of conflict over    Completed. A field manual for the
plantations                         land use and explore types of concrete action purposc was prepared for FD 's use.
FD could take to improve the relationship
with local villagers.
(b) Socio-economic survey of mangrove                  - idem -                            Not done
plantations
(c) Monitoring study                   To assess annual progress on mangrove   Annual monitoring not done. Final
plantation establishment and to produce  verification report was issued in
final verification of actual plantation using   October 1992.
aerial photography.



34
7. Status of Covenants
Caowaat/Section                    Sdject                       Statw                    commeats
2.02(b)            Open and maintain in USS a special             Ox
account in Bangladesh Bank.
3.01(.)            Borrower shall provide, promptly a             OK          However, frequent inadequate
needed, funds, faclities, ervces and other                 Annual Development Program
resources required for the project                         (ADP) a*locations and late releas
affected projeet implementation.
3.01(b)            Carry out the project in accordance with      OK-1         Management plans for the industrial
implementation progrm set forth in                        plantation divisions were prepared at
Schedule 4 of the DCA.                                     the end of the project rather than at
the beginning, as planned. For
coastal plantation divisions, a draft
plantation manual - not management
plan - was prepared at the end of
the project
3.01 (c)           Adequate funding to be provided to the         OK
Institute of Forestry.
4.01 (bXii)        Provide Annual Audit Reports not later        OK-1         While repors were submitted for all
than nine months after the end of each                     years, delays in submissions were
ftcal year.                                                observed.
4.01 (c)(iv)       A separate Audit Opinion to be submitted       OK
to IDA with respect to withdrawals
submitted on the basis of Statement of
Expenditure (SOEs).
Nod           OK  - Covenant complied with.
OK-1 - Covenant complied with, but wa revised.
8. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Tak        FY4 M     Y8S    FYM6    FY87    FYM          FYMW     FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    Total
LENP       77.8      7.0                                                                                84.8
LENA                71.2      9.8                                                                       81.0
LENN                          10.6                                                                      10.6
LOP         1.7      6.8      S4                                                                        13.9
SPN                           14.7     16.5     5.0       9.2      10.6     5.0       S.4               66.4
PCR                                                                                            03       03
PAD                           03       0.1                                                              0.5
Total      79WA     8SD       40.9     16.6      5.0      9.2      10.6     S.0      S4       03      257A



35
8. Use of IDA Resources (Continued)
B. Missions
Sap Of PmJed  =M      /Ye.    Nc of    D. i    Sped.bx. Repeftd                 Pe_     ace       Type d
C,de                          ?-~        P.ed                                 EanRgft  Status 2/    p  43/
Preparation      11-12/83
Appraial          11-12/84      6         33            B,P, P, O, P, S
Supervision I      3/86         3         1S               F. 0, E                   3           F(3), PM(2)
SuperAviion 1      6/86         1          7                  F                      2          F(3), PM(2)
Superviion mI    10-11/86       2         13                F, AE                    2          F(2), PM(2)
Superviion IV      5/57         2         14                F, PO                    2             PM(3)
SupervisionV      2-3/88        3         39               B, DO, F                  2             PM(3)
Supervsion VI    10-11/88       3         52               F, DO, F                  2             PM(2)
SupervsionVIl      2/89         2         1S                 E, F                    2             PM(2)
Supervision VIU    5-9/89       3         26               E, DO, F                  2        F(2), C(2), PM(2)
Supervision IX     3/90         3         17                B, F(2)                  2         C(2),PM(2),P(2)
SupeKsion X        10/90        3         25               E, DO, F                  2         PM(2),C(2),P(2)
Supervion X        6/91         2         13                B, CE                    2           PM(2), P(2)
Supervision Xll    11/91        3         21              E, CE, AG                  2         PM(2),P(2),F(2)
SupeKision Xm      4/92         3          ?             AG, CE, DO                  2              F(2)
AB - Agicultal Engneer AG - Agricultrist; CE,  Civil Engineer, DO - Disbursement Ofrwcr, E - Economist;
F * Fotcr, FE - FortrY Eduction Specalst; 0 - Orpanization & Management; P - Procuremcnt Specialist;
PO - Project Offircr, S - SociologisL
2/ 1 * Problem free or minor problew; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problemL
3/ C - Compliance with lepl covenants; F - Fuancial; PM - Project management; P = Project development objectives.
Numbers in parentheses refer to Perfornance Rating Status
C. Jos
(Not Available)



PROJECT COWLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Secord Forestry Project
(Credit No. 1634-BD)
Table 1:  Comparison of Appreisal PLantatiom Targets wnd Actul Adhievwents '
1985/86            1986/87             1987/88            1988/89            1989/90            1990/91           1991/92              Total
Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual   Target  Actual   Target   Actual   Target   Actual
Mangrove
Ptanted         8,000    8,117    8,000    8,097    8,000    8,219    8,000    3,808    8,000    4,170                  2,866              3,567   40,000   38,844
4,173              4,361               4,314              2,743              2,726             2,828              3,687              24,832
EstabL jshed
IndustriaL
6 years           -         -      730       231     1,175       338    1,215       765    1,800    1,602         -   1,549                 820    4,940    5,305
12 years       355       314       420       340       610      470       870      34        955       81         -      228                  -    3,215    1,7T7
18 years       900       818       915       490     1,290      689    1,355    1,074    1,555    2,731           -   1,513               1,451    6,015    8,766
40 years      1,175    1,377    1,500    1,389       1,860    1,360    2,225    1,179    2,550         465        -      372                993    9,310    7,135
Total           2,430    2,509    3,565    2,470    4,935    2,857    5,665    3,362    6,860    4,879              -   3,672               3,367   23,480   22,983
induistrial  III I___ _ _I____                                    _ I_     I__ _    I__  _   I__I_I
"  Areas showin here are as reported by SPARSSO/FD for mangrove, and FD for industrial plantations.
46



POJECT a W LETIM    T
Secard Foretry Project
(Credit 1634-0)
Ta1o 2. Price of Project OutpAl/
SAR Estimate (Tk/m3)                   PCR Estimate (Tk/m3)
Financial   Economic 2/  Financial    Economic    Financial  Economic 3/
1985         1992         1985          1992         1992         1992
Mangrove Fuelwood               141.00       227.00        141.00       227.00       247.00       201.00
Fuelwood (other speciaes)       212.00       341.00        212.00       341.00       388.00       318.00
Peelers                       1,412.00    2,273.00      1,483.00      2,388.00    4,237.00    2,825.00
Poles                         1,059.00    1,705.00      1,483.00      2,388.00    2,613.00    1,236.00
Sawlogs                       1,412.00    2,273.00      1,483.00      2,388.00     9,150.00    6,144.00
I/Stumpage prices as obtained from FD.
I/Using consumer price indices.
3/Details are in Tables 3 and 4.
t4



38
Page 3 of 16
Table 3
PROJECT COMPLETION URPORT
BANGLADESH
Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1634-BD)
Table 3.   Econosic Price of Fuelvood
Price of kerosene (1992), CIF Chittagong (USS30.4/barrel)                  7.4
Plus: Local handling charge, storage and transport cost to retail market   3.2
Economic value of kerosene on retail market                                Q.
Retail market price                                                       13.0
Conversion factor for kerosene (10.6 divided by 13) - 0.82
Fuelwood is asumed to substitute for 80% of kerosene and 20% of other
materials
Weighted fuelwood conversion factor: (80% x 0.82 + 20% x 0.8)"#/  0.82
Mangrove Fuetwood                                                      fl/lt3       ll/m3
Retail market price                                                       22.0
Deduct: Cost of extraction, transport and marketing                       15.0
Stumpage value at market price                                            ILQ          247
Economic stumpage value: (7.0 x 0.82)                                      5.7         201
Industrial Plantation Fuelwood
Retail market price                                                       29.0
Deduct: Cost of extraction, transport and marketing                       18.0
Stumpage value at market prices                                           1LQ          388
Economic stumpage value: (11 x 0.82)                                       9.0         318
Source: World Bank Staff Appraisal Report on Bangladesh, Forest Resources Management Project May 1992
./ Adjusted by Standard Conversion Factor 0X



39                                        ANNEX
Page 4 of 16
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1634-BD)
Table 4. Economic Price of LAp and Conversion Factor
USS/m3         TK/ft3    TK/m3
Economic Stumpage Value
Projected FOB price for Malaysian Meranti round logs     268.00           296
for the year 2000 in constant 1992 pricesa/
Less: Bangladesh quality adjustment (33%)                 73.92            82
Plus: Insurance and freight to Chittagong                 21.00            23
Projected price for average quality Bangladesh sawlog,   215.08          23
CIF Chittagong
Plus: Port handling and transport cost to wholesale                        9
market -b
Less: Cost of extraction and transport from extraction                     72
area to wholesale market W
Economic stumpage value                                                   174
Stumpage Value at Market Prices
Wholesale market price of average quality log                             350
Less: Cost of extraction and transport from extraction                     90
area to wholesale market
Stumpage value at market price                                           260
Log price conversion factor (174 divided by 260) = 0.67
Economic Stumpage Value of Other Wood Products
Peelers: Stumpage value at maket pices                                   120       4,237
Economic stumpage value                                            80       2,825
Poles:  Stumpage value at market prices s/                                74       2,613
Economic stumpage value                                            50       1,766
Sawlogs: Stumpage value at market prices                                 300       9,150
Economic stumpage value                                            203      6,144
Source: World Bank Staff Appraisal Report on Bangladesh Forest Resources Management Project May 1992.
Al World Bank, International Economics Department, July 1992.
&' Adjusted by Standard Conversion Factor of 0.8.
v The following mix has been assumed: 10% transmission poles, 90% house poles.



40
Pate 5 of 16
Table 5
PROJECT COMPL[MlON REPORT
BANGLADESH
Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1634-BD)
Table S. Estmated Ylelds
SAR ESTIMATEATE
TYPE OF PLANTATION   PRODUCT
AGE OF       OUTPUT   MAI         AGE OF       OUTPUT   MAI
TREATMENT  (M3)         (M32     TREATMENT  (3)               )
Mangrove Plantations
Mangrove(10 year rotation Fuelwood           10      191.0      19.1                       80      8.0
Mangrove(1 7 year rotation Fuelwood       (non)                                17         68
Poles              (non)                                17         50      8.9
Industrial Plantations
Short Rotation (6 years)  Fuetwood            6      124.0     20.7             6         5B       9.3
Short Rotation (6 years) 1/ Fuelwood                                            6         133     22.2
A. Moluccana           Fuelwood               5        37.0                     7          50
Fuelwood               8       22.8                     12         74
Fuelwood              12       64.1
Peelers                8       22.8
Peelers               12      149.5     24.7            12        170     24.5
Intermediate Rotation  Fuetwood               8       28.4                     10          17
Fuelwood              12       35.5
Fuelwood              18       45.0                     18         22
poles                 12       17.8                     10         12
poles                 18       67.6                     18         33
sawlogs               12        5.9
sawlogs               18      112.5       7.8           18         76       8.9
Long Rotation          Fuelwood              15        7.4                     12         4.9
Fuelwood              20        7.4                     25         2.7
Fuelwood              30        9.0
Fuelwood             40        30.9                     40        25.7
poles                 15        1.9                     12        11.6
poles                 20        6.0                     25        36.4
poles                 30       22.6
poles                40        30.9
sawlogs               20        1.6
sawlogs               30       13.6
sawlogs               40      247.4      9.5            40       104.8      4.7
1/ A. mangium only



41                                            .N
Page 6 of 16
Table 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1 634-BD)
Table 6: Exchange Rates and Local and Foreign Currency Inflators
1985/86 1986187 1987/88 1988/89 1989/90 1990/91 1991/92
EXCHANGE RATES
Tk. per USS 1/                      30.00   30.85   31.21   32.10   32.94   35.63   38.14
DOMESTIC INFLATORS
Price lndicies 2/                  105.50  116.30  127.30  139.65  152Z20  163.80  170.00
CPI (1985 - 100)
Inflators                          161.14  146.17  133.54  121.73  111.70  103.79  100.00
(to convert current to 1992 prices)
INTERNATIONAL INFLATORS
MUV Index (1985-100) 31            108.96  123.71  134.23  13&46  141.88  147.26  150.83
Inflators                         138.43  121.92  112.37  108.93  106.31   102.42  100.00
(to convert current to 1992 prices)
1/ Source: The World Bank Resident Mission in Dhaka.
2/ Source: IFS, Volume XLV, No 5. May 1992.
3/ Source: World Bank, International Economics Department, July 1992.



42
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                         aPabe 7 of l
BANGLADESH                                                     Table 7
Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1634-BD)
Table 7: Yearwise Project Costs 1/ In Current and Constant Prices
1986/86    1 98617   198117/8    199889    108l9/90    1990011    1990112
..... .... . ...    Tk million (Current Prices)  .  . . . 
LOCAL CURRENCY COSTS
A. Mangrove Altorbsaon
Plantaions Esablahment              25.50     28.90     33.90      25.30      23.20      23.60     20.90
Civi Woras                            0.00      1.40      4.20       2.50       4.10       2.20       5.10
Vehicles, Boats & Eqilpment           0.00      3.40      4.80       5.40       2.80       4.80       2.80
Mangrove Reseh                        0.10      0.70       1.60      1.40       1.50       3.50       4.50
Rceource MnAgement                    0.00      0.00      0.50       1.10       1.50       1.10      2.S0
StaltSalaries&OperangCost             2.10     14.00      14.70     21.10      24.90      25.80     20.70
B. Indutrial Plantaoions
Plantatkon Extatilshment            22.90      3320      41.90      51.10      73.00      79.60     50.00
Ciil Works                            1.10      3.10      2.50       7.20       8.70       1.90       1.20
Vehicle and Equipment                 3.30      1.40       1.20      2.30       0.20       2.50       2.20
Resource Managemnt                    0.00      0.00      0.50       1.10       1.50       1.10      2.30
Staff Salan.s&OporatingCost           0.0      3.80      4.80       9.00      12.30      11.70      12.60
Tkc million (1902 Pricos) 2/
A. Mangrove AHlorstaion
Plantabons Estabiishmont             0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Ciil Works                            0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Vehicles. Boats & Eqipment            0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Mangrove Reserch                     0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Resource Management                  0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Staff Salaies & Operating Cost        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
B. Industria Plantaikons
Plantations Estabishment              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
CMi Works                             0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Vehices and Equipment                 0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Resource Management                   0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Staff Salaries & Operating Cost       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
US3 million (Current Prices) 3V
FOREIGN CURRENCY COSTS
A. Mangrove Aftorestlon
Vehicbe. Bot & Eqipment               0.00      0.02      0.03       0.03       0.02       0.03       0.02
Mangrov  Rearch                       0.00      0.00      0.02       0.02       0.03       0.00      0.00
Resource Management                   0.00      0.08      0.13       0.12       0.06       0.04      0.03
B. Indusuial Plantaion
Vehicies and Equipment                0.02      0.01      0.01       0.01       0.00       0.01       0.01
Resource Management                   0.00      0.08      0.13       0.12       0.0a       0.04       0.03
USS miilion (1902 Prices) V.
A. Mangrove Athrtbnad
Vehicles, Boats & Eqipmont            0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Mangrov Reerch                        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Resource Management                   0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
B. Industrial Plantations
Vehicles and Equipment                0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Resource Management                   0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Tk million (1 902 Prices) 51                 _ _
Vehicles. Boats & Eqipment            0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Mangroe Reearch                       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Resource Management                   0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
B. Industnal Plantations
Vehicles and Equipment                0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Resource Management                   0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
11 For Items used in the economic analysi.
2. Using local currency inflators (Table 6).
3/ Using current exchange rates (Table 6).
41 U ing foreign cuffency inflators (Table 6).
5Y1992 US$ value convened to 1902 Tk t June 1992 exchange rate of USS1 - Tk 38.95.



43
Page 8 of 16
Table 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
Second Forestry Project
(Credit 1634-6D)
Table 8: Yearwise Project Costs in Constant (1992) Economic Prices
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989190  1990191  1991192
............................... ...........  Tk  m illion   .........    ..............................
LOCAL CURRENCY COSTS 1/
A. Mangrove AH orestation
Plantations Estabilshment       32.87    33.80    36.22    24.64    25.20    23.75    16.72
Clvil Works                      0.00     1.64    4.49     2.43     3.66     1.83    4.08
Vehicles. Boats & Eqipment 2/    0.00     3.38    4.36     4.47     2.13     3.39    1.90
Mangrove Resrch                  0.13     0.82     1.71    1.36     1.34     2.91    3.60
Resource Management              0.00     0.82     1.71    1.36     1.34     2.91    3.60
Staff Salaries & Operating Cost  2.71    17.07    15.70    20.55    22.25    21.42    21.36
B. Industrial Plantations
Plantations Establishment       29.39    38.82    44.76    49.76    65.77    66.09    64.00
Civil Works                      1.42     3.63    2.67     7.01     7.77     1.58    4.96
Vehicles & Eqipment 2/           3.62     1.39     1.09    1.90     0.15     1.76    1.50
Resource Management              0.00     0.00    0.53     1.07     1.34     0.91    Z24
Staff Salaries & Operating Cost  0.77     4.44    5.13     8.76    10.99     9.71    10.08
FOREIGN CURRENCY COSTS
A. Mangrove Afforestation
Vehicles, Boats & Eqlpment       0.00     0.95     1.31    1.27     0.83     1.20    0.78
Mangrove Resoarch                0.00     0.00     0.88    0.85     1.24     0.00    0.00
Resource Management              0.00     3.80    5.69     5.09     2.48     1.60    1.17
B. Industrial Plantatlons
Vehicles & Eqipment              1.08     0.47     0.44    0.42     0.00     0.40    0.39
Resource Management              0.00     3.80    5.69     5.09     2.48     1.60    1.17
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS
A. Mangrove Afforestation
Plantations EstabiLshment       32.87    33.80    36.22    24.64    25.20    23.75    16.72
Clvil Works                      0.00     1.64    4.49     2.43     3.66     1.83    4.08
Vehicles. Boats & Eqipment       0.00     4.33    5.67     5.74     2.95     4.58    2.68
Mangrove Research                0.13     0.82     2.58    2.21     2.58     2.91    3.60
Resource Management              0.00     4.62    7.40     6.45     3.82    4.50     4.77
Staf Salaries & Operating Cost   2.71    17.07    15.70    20.55    22.25    21.42    21.36
B. Industrial Plantations
Plantations Establishment       29.39    38.82    44.76    49.76    65.77    66.09    64.00
Civil Works                      1.42     3.63    2.67     7.01     7.77     1.58    4.96
Vehicles and Equipment           4.69     1.87     1.53    2.33     0.15     2.16    1.89
Resource Management              0.00     3.80    6.22     6.16     3.82    2.51     3.41
Staff Salaries & Operating Cost  0.77     4.44    5.13     8.76    10.99     9.71    10.08
11 tocaI curfency coate including labour. adjused by the Standard Converou factor of 0.5.
2/ Adjusted for dutles and taxes asumed at 15%.



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT (CR. 1634-BD)
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOAMIC ANALYSIS OF MANGROVE PLANTA TIONS
YEARS              1        2        3        4         5        8        7        8        9       10       11        12
AREA PLANTED
MANGROVES                                4173     4361     4314     2743     2726      2828     3687                   _ =
OUTPUT                             AGE       TYPE            YIELD M3    _
MANGROVES(10YR)           10 FUELWOOD                 80                                                                                              200304   209328
MANGROVES(17YR)           17 FUELWOOD                 68
17 POLES                   50
TOTALOUTPUT                                   FUELWOOD (M)                      0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0   200304   209328
POLES                             0         0        0        0        0        0        0                  0        0        0        0
PRICES (economic))                 FACTOR  USED PRICE                                = _                =_=_=                                                           =
FUELWOOD(%9                   0.201         1          0.201
POLES                         1.236         1           1.236                                                                                             _
REVENUES                                     FUELWOOD(M)                        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0  40261.1 42074.93
POLES                             0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
TOTAL                             0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0  40261.1 4207493
COSTS                                                                     _        _
MANGROVE                                                                    35700    62280    72060    62020    60460   58990    53211 13302.75   5321.1   5321.1
NET BENEFIT                        IERR                  6.0 %             -35700   -62280   -72060   -62020   -60460   -58990   -53211  -13302.8  -5321.1  -5321.1  40261.1 42074.93 S-
P.
'-I
0   I- 
m 2O 



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT (CR. 1634-OD)
PROJECT coMPLETION REpoRr
ECONOMIC ANAL YSIS OF MANGROVE PLANrA nONS
13       1 4       15       18       17        18       Is        20       21       22        23       24
207072   131664   130848   135744   176976          0
__ _  113505.6 118619.2 117340.8  74609.6  74147.2  76921.6 100286.4
e_ 63    7224 0  O b28     548601  54520    56560   n3740
207072   131664   130848   135744   176976 113505.6 118619.2 117340.8  74609.6  74147.2  76921.6 100286.4
0        0         0        0        0    83460    87220   86280    54860         520    56560    73740
41621.47 26464.46 26300.45 27284.54 35572.1 ' 22814.63 23842.46  23585.5 14SS6.53 14903.59 15461.24 20157.57
0        0         0        0        0 103156.6 107803.9 106642.1 6780.96 67386.72 68908.16 91142.64
41621.47 26464.46 26300.45 27284.54 35572.18 125971.2 131648.4 130227f 02bO349 82290.31  85369.4 111300.2 
.41621.47 26644  2630.451228.51357,1  125971.2 1131"!   130227.ZS 828W.A9 8229.321. 8                   .I14 .
a I3



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT (CR.1634-BDD
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIAL PLANTA TIONS
YEARS              1        2         3        4        5         6        7        8         9    3O          11        12
AREA PLANTED                                                                 _                                                                                   _                     _
INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS
6YEAR ROT                                 231      338       765     1602      1549      820                        .                     _
12 YEAR ROTATION                 314      340      470       344       81      228
18 YEAR ROTATION(M)               96       47      124       233      616      490       339
18 YEAR ROTATION(o)              722      443      565       841     2115     1023      1112                                     . _    =
40 YEAR ROTATION                1377     1389      1360     1179      465       372      993                        _
OUTPUT                              AGE       TYPE            YIELDM3HA MV__
6YEAR ROT                  6 FUELWOOD                 56                                                       0    12936    18928   42840    89712    86744    45920
12 YEAR ROTATION           7 FUELWOOD                 44                                                                      13816    14960   20680    15136       3564
12 FUELLWOOD               204                                                                                              _
12 PEELERS                  13
18 YEAR ROTATION(          6 FUELWOOD                133    =                                               6251    16492    30989    81928    65170    45087          0
18 YEAR ROTATION(         10 FUELWOOD                 17                                                                                        12274     7531      9605
18 FUELWOOD                 22 _
10 POLES                    12                                                                                                  8664     5316
18 POLES                    33
18 SAWLOGS                  76
40 YEAR ROTATION          12 FUELWOOD                 4.9                                                                                                  _
25 FUELWOOD                2.7
40 FUELWOOD                 26
12 POLES                    11                                                                                      _ _____
25 POLES                    36
40 SAWLOGS                 105
TOTAL OUTPUT                                                                                                                       _                                                      p
FUELWOOD                           0        0        0         0        0     6251    29428    63733   139728   187836   154498    59089 ON
POLES                              0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0     8664     5316
PEELERS                            0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
SAWLOGS                            0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
PRICES (economic))                  FACTOR  USED PRICE                                                                                                                 _
FUELWOOO(M)                   0.201         1           0.201
FUELWOOD                      0318          1           0.318
POLES                         1 236         1           1.236
PEELER                        2 825         1           2 825                                                                            .
SAWLoGS                       6144          1           6.144                                                                            _                                 _
REVENUES                                      FUELWOOD                           0         0        0        0         0 1987.818 9358.104 20267.09  44433 5 59731.85 49130 36  18790 3
POLES                              0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0  10708.7 6570 576
PEELERS                            0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        o        o         a
SAWLOGS                            0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
TOTAL                              0        0        0         0        0 1987 818 9358.104 20267.09  444335 59731.85 59839 07 253   8a
COSTS                                                                                                                                                        .                     _
INDUSTRIAL_
TOTAL                          36270    52560    60310    74020    88500   82000    84340    21085 _ 434    U8434            200       200
NET BENEFIT                         ERR                  15.7 %              -36270   -52560   -60310   -74020   -88500 -80012.2 -74961.9 -817.906  35S99' 51297.85 59639.07 251b0
0 no 
o * ^ 
ito * 



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT (CR.1634-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORr
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIAL PLANrA TIONS
13      14       15       16      17       18       19      20       21       22      23       24      25       26       27      28       29      30       31      32
0       0        0       0   _ _     _  _     _ _      _ _      _ _     _ _      _ _     _ __                _     _ _      _   __                        _
64056   69360   95880   70176   16524   46512          0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
4082    4420    6110    4472    1053    2964          0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0
0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0   _ _       _        _        _                                 _       _        _        _
14297   35955   17391   18904         0        0       0        0        0       0                                                                         =
I_15884    9746   12430   18502   46530   22506   24464            0        0       0        0        0       0        0C
6780    10092   25380   12276   13344         0       0        0        0       0        0        0
23826   14619   18645   27753   69795   33759   36696                            0        0       0        0       0        0
___       ___                      ___        54872   33668   42940   63916  160740   77748   84512           0       0        0        0       0        0       0 a
6747.3  6806.1    6664   5M.1   2278 5   1822.8  4865.7          0       0        0        0       0                           _ 6_2   3 3 1 5              04       8
_______  _______  _______  ______   ______        _______  ______                    ~~~~~~3717.9  3750.3  3672  3183 .3  J j    1055.5  295 j  j
15147   15279   14960   12969    5115    4092   10923           0        0       0        0       0             47      50        86      24        70      32       7
_______    ______                                         ___   ____                                          49572   50004   48960   42444   16740   13392   35748
85100.3 112121.1  119935  94857.1  18802.5  64218.8  14611.7   12430   18502   46530   22506   24464        0   3717.9  3750.3    3672   3183.3  1255.5  1004.4  2681.1   _
21927   25371   40340   25245   18459   27918   25542   18645   27753   69795   33759   36696              0   49572   50004   48960   42444   16740   13392   35748
4082    4420    6110    4472    1053    2964          0        0        0       0 .       0      0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
0       0        0        0       0   54872   33668   42940   63916  160740   7T748   84512            0        0       0        0       0        0        0       DI
27061.9 35654 51 38139 33 30164.56 5979.195 20421,58 4646 521  3952.74 5883.636 14796.54 7156.908 7779.552  0 1182.292 1192.595 1167.696 1012.289  399.249 319 3992 852.5898
27101.77 31358 56 49860 24 31202.82 22815 32 34506.65 31569 91 23045 22 3.4302.71 86266 62 41726.12 4535626  0 61270.99 61804,94 60514.56 52460.78 20690.64 16552.51 4418453
11531 65  12486.5 17260.75  12633.4 2974.725   8373.3     0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0
0       0        0        0       0 337133.6 206856.2 263823 4 392699,9 9875866 477683.7 519241.7      0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0
6569532 79499 57 105260 3 7400078 31769.24 400435.1 243072.6 290821.3 432886.2  1088650 526566.7 572377.5    062453.28 62997.54 6168.26 53473.07 21089.89 16871.91 45037.12
200     200      200      200     200      200     200      200      200     200      200      200     200      200     200                       200 200          200
65495.32 | 79299.57 1050603 73800.78 31569.24 400235.1 242872.6 290621.3 432686.2  1088450 528366.7 5721775.   -200 62253.28 6279754 61482.26 53273.07 20889.89 16671.91 MN7.12
tC0
oVEI



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT (CR.1634-BD)
PROJECT COMPLErION REPORT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF INDUSTRIAL PLANTA TIONS
33       34       35        3f       37       38       39        40       41       42       43        44       45       46       47
_0                0        0         0                                             __                      _                                                    4
35802    36114    35360    30654    12090      9672   25818                               0o
0        0        0        0         0        0        0_ _                  _  _     _    __                          _   _    _
144585   145845   142800   123795    48825    39060   104265
0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0    35802    36114    35360    30654    12090      9672    25818
0        0        0        0l        0        0        0         0        0        0        0.       0         0        0        0
0        0        0         O        0        0        0         O       0        0        0         0        0        0        0
0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0   144585   145845   142800   123795    48825    39060  104265
0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0 11385.04 11484.25 11244.48 9747.972  3844.62 3075.696 8210.124
0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0 1      0        0         0        0        0        0
0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0
0        0 1      0         0        0        0        0         0 88830.2 896071.7 877363.2 760596.5 299980.8 239984.6 640604.2
0        0        0         0        0        0        0 1       0 899715.3 907555.9 -888607.7 770344.5 303825.4 243060.3 648814.3
200      200      200       200      200      200      200       200      200      200      200       200      200      200      200                          w0P
-20 -200      -2001    -2001    -200     -200      -200     -2001899515.31907355.9 88847.7 770144.5 303625.4 242860.31648614.3



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT (CR. 15344301
,RCMocv waiioTm REPORT
ECCOMWNLYMa OF UN PROECr
YEARS      *.          .2         3 ..         5. -..             7        a..J           la ...I I        2       13.i  1...J     1
ARE-A PLANTEDO_______
LMANGROkJES                         417      4_5_414                                                                                        __22____3w
MINSTRIAL PLANATIONS___
6YEAR ROTATION23                             38 
12 YEAR ROTATION(U            14II
16 YEAR ROTATIOMN   V                 4O14 2I4
40 YEAR ROTATION           i3M7     138.fl  i        11P2    48   3j72        993-                ___
OUTPUT                        AGE      TYPE         Y~W- M34AA ___ _______________
MANGROVES(IOYR)        10 FUEVB0.WO2702O3O6                                                                                                                                 10
MANGROWES(17YR)        17 FUBE.W400             Go_____
17 POLES                5
6YEAR ROT               6 RUELWOOO               61                                                            iO5 4M          I2 W4 
12 YEAR ROTATION        7 FLtLV00               4 .WOOgo1O30                                                                                    3
12 FLTEWOOO                    _       -4
12 PEELERS1
1 B YEAR ROTATION       6 RUELVOO13651 1                                                                       39       1       5       55
16 YEAR ROTATION       10 FUELVVOOO1124                                                                                                                          5      130
1s PUELVVOOD            22     __                                             __
10 POLES                    __2 _am_531_ ____
la POLES                3
la SAWLOGS              7 
40 YE-AR ROTATION      12 RUELWOOO              .                                                                                                         73        01.
25 FULViW 2O7
40 F1ELWVOOD2
12 POLESII117                                                                                                                            52 
25 POLES                3__
40 SAWLOGS              o
TOTAL OUTPT                            PFULW~OOD (M)                                  a20                                                                            072136410.
POLES                          0       00                       0       0       0       2M                             3       12      57
PEELERS                                a                                                                                      402      40      Oi
SAWLOGS                                                                                         a       a        a                       a
PrICES (scgn.awic)l           FACTOR  USE  PRICE
ftJKmo0pq               0 201        1         0.201                   1__
FUMYCOO                 0.316        1         0.318                   1__
Pam               ~~~~1.706    I         1.236
euuBM                   282          1         26825
&AWL*=                  6144         1         6.144
RJEVENUES                              _ULOD___                               0                                                                      06.  2049   12.7 66.52M4
POLES                                                                                                      100       M7          1.7lie
PEELERS                                         .      0                 .                      0       0                  151
SAWLOGS                        0       0       0       o                 1      0       aD                        
TOTAL                          0       0o                         IZOlM,0  0 MJ M571    0J0   73.1150   =5.
COSTS                                                                                           I__    __
MANORaV                                                                                                                                              _      _0 _80600 646  Ui130.5521152,
MIUSTRIAL367                                                              55742215                                                   844     8420
TOTAL717 11013                                             10      1490171
NET BENFIT                    ERR                             .I-T        114W           -1mio    148)      -1    A24193 -1027                            6 12il  L.*r    11Lf07116.01~
h1A. U.Mmkiam plno            21 Oth pIa"iome



BANG3LADESH
SECONO FORESTRY PROJECT (CIL 1834430)
PRojEcr countnoNREPoRr
16      17        is      't9      20                          23n      24      25       26       27       28       29       30       31       32       33       34       35       38       37
1357441 176976                                _       _        _         __                                          _                 -_                                                    _
83460   87220   86280   5486          54520   56560   73740                     .      0                    =        3        3                  _       -                 =  
i16 16524t  46512.        o   0        0        t    0 3               o        O        0                          t Di                                     =                                  =
442  053     296A  _              0        0        0-   t            0 .1              0 7  =   ,        l _=                                                                         =
o c  Q o o 0                                                              ___                                          _______
_             ~~~~~1SS  974a   12430   1802   4SS3         22506   24464         0        0        O        I        t        0        a                        
1227tt 1334t 461   84  275   99 0. 0 C   _ 
1582 33668   42940   63 16 1040   7774  4 51                                      a        t 0  0              .-    t a
5777.1 ~  .2a5 l2.    OM7         0        0        0        0        0            3717 9   3750.3 ____;   318S3 3 112555 !   104.4  268111 1   _              O        O        t        O 
12969    5115     4092    1092;1       O        O         O        t       D               _97     0M      4M       444 170           132 378               0        0        0000                            t
135744  1_97  _l5.    _lS1.  174_         -760    74147-2  762_   10026A 4                    a        e                 c   =   0- 0                                         o 0                c-c   0 
442    8456   111378  126  104 0        213   J41        90 19  1143 t              4957    5000    4e         C24    16740   1339          t4     3            o        o    =            o        e
0 t 54872   33668   42940   631_           _04    777484 51 _                     0    _                   _       -        _       _            e        o        o a  a_ 
27284.54 35572.1  22814.6  23042.46  235tlS   MN6S.5  14903.5  IW.24120157.57          t             _        _            o                         t        O        O        O        t  _     0        O
30164 56 5979.195 20421.5  464f  521        9 1        4796 54 lJ60   7952             010.    192 5C5 1167.    1226   3  29193285t5M                          0    t            0    O             
31202 82 22815.32 137663;2 139373.8 129687.3 -MI0 7 153653 3 111634.3 136498. 8           t  1270.9  61044  60514,56 52460.780 209A  ItlS2.51 44184.53         O                     0            0        O
12633.412974 725   8373.3    _           0   0        t       C        t       l _    t                 e                 o 0      0                         o        o        o 0               o   _  
0l      0337133.6          22M     . 392S99S99756  4776tt3.7 519241.7           C        ti       a        0 0               O3  o ..                   0        Of       0 o               a        a
10128s      52403    374719 418   515609 7 117094  811936.1 S8367.7               t 62453.2  62997,54 811253473.07  t1M2  16871 91 4503t.12               a       O        O        t        a 
20200             200  2CO-         2Xq2X             0 200    20qa  0 ---   Q--     x--    --                      200  -aM   ---=  :: -    n-               --                __      
'200                20 t   2M                                  -2          W       M    -.         -m2                          20D                       200      200                        2tqZO
1008367141.42 26-2.3  374519408959 77 611735 1 6834777 ,5z95 532707osa 431 0p=  200_a 1 
101085.395154897                                                   5W3 0720M 89 jELfjfjMj=                               --M       --m         m        M



BANGLAESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT fCRt 1Ua44
Pto rcowjoNRCPRrN
_                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~;
39     40      41      42      43      44      45      48     47
35m    36ii4   x3m   30554   12090   9672   2581
. 14_154    48                 275 I5 300146
=__   _-___  00  
=                                                  =       -5M-m   4    5  05  200__  51
.      a                                  _.0 0        
_.                         _              _  1 0   
o_          883_  .   WV                               =       -76,  Q%529O  394660D
=l                     = 89753975_ -WW    73453325423()3S1
200=                        - 20.0  0  00  0    20
_     _       3s~89951531907 s355 a   306s   t20s        3   64814. e
c   =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



