Document of
The World Bank
FOR oMcF&L USE ONLY
Reprt N.. P-4163-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 27.1 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
OCTOBER 17, 1985
Thks dot ba a *re IddigIbut. ad may be  bd y ldplemt ediy in the pesefxinnce of
te   acdr dus lls coin a neewwse ble dislod wirbout Wedd Blc anhrtb s.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (TO) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On August 31, 1985 the official exchange race was set at
Tk 29.22 buying and Tk 29.28 selling per US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square mile        =  640 acres (259 hectares)
1 acre (ac)          =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 cubic foot (ft3)  =  0.028 cubic meter (m3)
1 ton (metric)       =  2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
BCIC             Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BFIDC            Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation
BFRI             Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
FAO/CP           Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FD               Forest Department
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
ILO/EQUIPRO     Equipment Procurement Division of the
International Labor Organization
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MLALR            Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform
PTU              Plantation Trial Unit
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:            SDR 27.1 Million (US$28.0 Million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Proiect            The primary objectives of the proposed project would be
DescriDtion:      to expand and adequately maintain forest areas and thereby
to increase the supply of fuelvood for domestic
consumption; provide protection against cyclones, tidal
bores, and soil erosion; and increase the supply of wood
products for industrial and commercial uses. The proposed
project would continue the program of afforestation of
newly accreted land begun under the Mangrove Afforestation
Project (Credit 1042-BD) and would support improved
utilization and management of indigenous forests.
Specific project components would include:
(a) establishment of about 100,000 acres of mangrove
plantations, and maintenance of about 200,000 acres of
existing plantations; (b) establishment of about 58,000
acres of industrial plantations, and maintenance of about
70,000 acres of existing plantations; (c) establishment of
Resource Management Systems for mangrove plantations and
other forest resources; (d) support of mangrove
afforestation research; and (e) training of forestry
personnel and improvement and expansion of forestry
education and training facilities.
Project Risks:     Heavy sedimentation or erosion and cyclones pose a
possible risk to certain areas and necessitate careful
mangrove plantation site selection. The Forest Department
has gained experience in site selection and land
monitoring and surveying techniques have been improved.
Therefore, the risk, due to erosion and sedimentation is
considered to be small.  The risk of loss from cyclones
has been minimized by the distribution of plantations ovex
a wide area. Theft and illegal grazing could pose a risk
to industrial plantations. To combat this problem, the
project would provide for the establishment of short
rotation fuelvood plantations, adjacent to populated
areas, vhich would provide a local supply of fuelvood and,
thereby, reduce pressures on long rotation plantations.
The selection of sites for short rotation fuelvood
plantations would be based on a socioeconomic study which
would provide an analysis of local fuelvood usage patterns
and information needed by the Forest Department to foster
support among villagers for the development of these
fuelvood plantations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Project Costs: ;j
Local    Foreizn    Total
----US$ million-
Mangrove Afforestation               7.2       0.8        8.0
Industrial Plantations               9.3       1.5       10.8
Education and Trairing              2.3        4.5        6.8
Resource Management Programme       0.5        1.0        1.5
Research                            0.3        0.1        0.4
Base Cost                     19.6        7.9       27.5
Pbysical Contingencies              0.8        0.2        1.0
Price Contingencies                 6.6        0.9        7.5
Total Cost                    27.0        9.0       36.0
jJ Includes taxes and duties of US$0.36 million.
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
-    -US$ million n
IDA                                23.2        4.8       28.0
UNDP                                0.1        4.2        4.3
Government                           3.7        -         3.7
Total                         27.0        9.0       36.0
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY             FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual             3.0      4.0    5.0    6.0    6.0    4.0
Cumulative         3.0      7.0   12.0   18.0   24.0   28.0
Economic Rate
of Return:         20%



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 27.1 mil-
lion (US$28.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second Forestry Project. Parallel financing of US$4.3 million equivalent
would be provided by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects," (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the E.xecutive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, remains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has
averaged about 16% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in recent years). Export
earnings cover less than 30% of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods
accounting for about 60% of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about
15Z of GDP is financed by workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more
than 5% of GDP in FY83, before declining significantly during the past two
years, and by foreign assistance equivalent to about 10% of GDP per annum.
The capacity to finance imports can be sharpLy affected by external factors
that are beyond the control of the Government; the effect of such adverse
factors on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary



-2-
revenues on import duties and sales taxes, which together account for about
60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s, Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6% per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to declining prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts in real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries were freed from investment sanctions. Imports were liberalized by
increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and by
eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the balance
of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in the
terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows, as
well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resulting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 3% in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2%.
7.      Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 was seriously affected by a
series of damaging floods during 1984 whose intensity was comparable to the
devastating floods of 1974. Successive rice crops were hit causing net



-3-
foodgrain losses of about 1.0 million tons. Due to investments in more
dispersed food storage facilities, the improved efficiency of the PubLic Food
Distribution System, and the Government's large-scale foodgrain procurements
abroad, a famine was averted. Even though the immediate food crisis has
passed, the impact of the floods is reflected in lower agricultural growth
rates of around 2% in FY84 and FY85. The cyclone and tidal bore disaster in
May 1985 caused extensive loss of life and property along the southern coast
and islands of Bangladesh; the effect on food production was, however,
limited, although loss of agricultural Livestock was considerable.
8.      In the nonagricultural sectors there was in FY84 a slow, but
gradually accelerating, recovery. Industry, in particular, rebounded sharply
from the weak performance of the preceding year. This was due to a combina-
tion of factors including further liberalization and privatization measures
following the promulgation of the Government's New Industrial Policy; easier
access to imports during a period of less restricted foreign exchange
resources; increased non-traditional industrial exports (especially ready-
made garments); and increased demand generated by a sharp expansion of
private credit (paragraph 11). Therefore, despite the severe setbacks in
agriculture, the improvements in industry still led to a GDP growth of around
3.5% for FY84. Preliminary estimates indicate that overall economic growth
in FY85 will be around 3%.
9.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in FY83, the
Government has sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85
Budgets, rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax
and pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues benefitted from higher imports. A substantial budget deficit was
avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development expenditures com-
pared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the Annual Development
Programme expenditures has occurred during FY85. Such shortfalls arise
partly from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but are also
attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as a result
of implementation constraints.
10.     The FY86 budget provides for some new revenue measures including tax
revenue increases of about 4% in real terms. Also, the Government announced
a Tk 600 million reduction in food subsidies reducing the overall subsidy
level in the budget to Tk 3 billion. The price of natural gas was raised by
20% and a 2Z power rate hike in the budget was followed by another 16%
increase in September 1986. On the expenditure side, Government announced
significant cost-of-living adjustments in public salaries which account for
most of a 13% rise in current outlays. The FY86 ADP appears again
overambitious. The planned ADP size of Tk 38.3 billion implies a sizeab'Le
30% increase over the already revised budget estimates for FY85 of Tk 35
billion. It is unlikely that the country's project implementation capability
could execute an ADP of this size.



-4-
11.     During 1983 and 1984, the Government permitted a rapid expansion in
domestic credit in an effort to stimulate economic recovery and, by means of
liberal rural credit to mitigate the effects of the 1984 floods. Domestic
prices have, nevertheless, remained relatively stable, although the rate of
inflation increased from about 12% in FY84 to about 14% in FY85. In January
1985, the Government took a series of measures to limit the growth of
liquidity. The measures included increases in interest rates and quantita-
tive restrictions on the growth oi domestic credit. In spite of these
measures, liquidity has continued to expand, albeit at a slower pace, and
credit restrictions will have to be maintained throughout FY86 to prevent an
acceleration of inflation.
12.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 20Z, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, the current
account deficit as a whole declined to 7.4Z of GDP in FY84 from 10.4% in
FY83, while gross foreign exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of
US$558 million, equivalent to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85
there has been a deterioration in the balance of payments. Part of the
growing pressure on the balance of payments arose from the additional
foodgrain imports necessitated by the severe 1984 floods. Since immediate
additional food aid in response to the crisis was limited, the Government had
to purchase about 1.25 million tons of foodgrains, valued at close to US$250
million, from its own resources. Non-food imports have also increased
significantly, partly as a result of the continued recovery in the non-
agricultural sectors stimulated by the rapid expansion in domestic credit.
Workers' remittances have also declined further and although exports and aid
disbursements increased somewhat over FY84 levels, external reserves fell by
about US$145 million in FY85. The decline in reserves would have been even
more marked if a substantial portion (about US$190 million) of foodgrain
imports had not been purchased on credit. This short-term borrowing will,
however, add to the difficulty of managing the balance of payments over the
next three years when there will also be substantial obligations for repur-
chases from the IMP; external reserves have continued to decline during the
first two months of FY86.
External Debt
13.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium- and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13% of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14% in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter. However,
when obligations to the IMF are included, the debt service ratio for FY85 is



-5-
estimated at about 20%, rising to between 20-25% during FY86 and FY87. The
debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about 15-17% by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt
servicing obligations will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5%
in FY84 to 8.9Z in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35% in
FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     AlLhough the Second Five Year Plan period ended in June 1985, the
Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on the
priorities outlined in the Plan. The priority development objectives are:
(a) reducing population growth from the present rate of 2.6% per annum;
(b) achieving foodgrain self-safficiency, (c) eliminating mass illiteracy;
and (d) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan that aims
at increasing foodgrain production. With appropriate producer incentives,
adequate resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role
for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural
implements and inputs, foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the
end of the decade. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), the Plan's
emphasis on primary education is well founded; under the Plan the objective
of achieving universal primary education was adopted. Prospects for achiev-
ing the objectives of educational expansion and improved foodgrain
availability would be improved by success in reducing the population growth
rate; this will require more determined efforts than hitherto. The
Government is taking steps to improve its family planning and health services
at the field level, including increasing the number of field workers and
providing them with more intensive training and supervision. The Government
has also developed a strategy for expanding support to maternal and child
health services.
15.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since imported petroleum at present preempts
about two-thirds of merchandise export earnings. Since the required invest-
ments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy, they need to be properly
planned under a phased priority program. The Government is now endeavoring,
with Asian Development Bank (ADB)/United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
assistance, to formulate an appropriate energy sector investment program.
The implementation of appropriate energy conservation measures and the set-
ting of energy prices at economically efficient levels will also be critical
to the success of the energy development program.
16.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain produccion alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures muet;: be taken simultaneously, therefore,



-6-
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially rural
small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one sub-
sector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
17.     As noted above, the Government's New Industrial Policy has given a
greater role to the private sector in industrial development, increased the
incentives for export industries, and Liberalized the import regime.
However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development finance
institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an increasing
problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives. The
Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.
18.     The Government is now preparing its Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90).
While the development priorities are not likely to change significantly from
those incorporated into the Second Five Year Plan, the size of the future
public investment program will need to be set at a level consistent with a
realistic assessment of prospective external and domestic financial
resources. As external assiscance will continue to be severely constrained,
there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive domestic resource mobi-
lization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the level of cost recovery,
reduce subsidies, and improve the financial performance of public
enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to
reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elas-
ticity of the tax system.
19.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is a
critical need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making prr.esses. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective -cle in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions to the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) level. The implementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitored.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total US$3,24:.40
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved 84 new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 24%
of IDA lending has been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
11% for industry; 13Z for power and energy; 7Z for transportation and
telecommunications; 9% for education and technical assistance; 2% for urban



-7-
infrastructure; 2% for population control; and 322 for imports program
support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the composi-
tion of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to change
markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and five
investments have been approved to date.
21.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 14 above. IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer, and improved seeds, the development of extension
ser-vices, research programs, and rural cooperatives, the provision of
agricultural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies
that allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has
also supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector
participation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish and forestry products.
22.     An inadequate supply of energy is one of the major constraints to
economic growth in Bangladesh. IDA's lending for power and gas investments
is designed to expand the use of natural gas in substitution for imported
oil, promote conservation measures and more efficient energy use, and
encourage further gas and oil exploration. IDA is also financing projects to
expand the country's r-yral electrification system and power generation and
transmission capabilities. Recognizing the critical shortages in traditional
fuels, IDA is financing investments in forestry to increase the supply of
fuelwood.
23.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas - primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen- technicians, and engineers.
24.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 1985 to
between 35-40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also help
the Government address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
25.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
nal trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to



-8-
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
(c) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (paragraph 27), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance iPstitutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
26.     Because cf the importance of river transport in this deltaic ccuntry,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's future lend-
ing program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading existing
roads.
27.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides a sig-
nificant proportion of annual lending in the form of program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues. Due to
Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing con-
tinue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of local
currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concessionary
assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.
IDA is promoting Government poLicies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.
28.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other doncrs, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term.
29.     IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, project implementation, and aid coordination.



PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
30.     Although 24Z of Bangladesh's total land area is covered by forests,
the high population density and the inaccessibility of a large portion of
the existing forest severely limit the per capita consumption of wood and the
availability of wood and wood products for industriaL and commercial
purposes. The forestry sector currently accounts for only 3% of the nation's
GDP. This, however, does not reflect the true importance of forest products
as a source of fuelwood, an essential. element of Bangladesh's energy
consumption, and of sawnwood poles and bamboo, which are of vital importance
in construction and the manufacture of a wide range of necessities such as
furniture and farm implements. Forests also play an important role in
protecting watersheds and irrigation structures, in reclaiming land from the
sea, and in protecting coastal areas.
Forest Area and Production
31.     As a result of steadily increasing population pressures, there are
only a few surviving major areas of natural forests in Bangladesh. Most
important among these are the hill forests (Chittagong Hill TractE,
Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar and Sylhet Districts) and the mangrove forests of
the Sundarban. These "'natural forests" cover approximately 2.3 million
acres, constituting 43% of the total 5.4 million acres which have been class-
ified as forest areas. The remaining forest area is made up of 0.5 million
acres of plantation (paragraph 32) and 2.6 million acres of "unclassed state
forest" Located primarily in the Chittagong Hill Tracts which have been
depLeted as a result of shifting cultivation. There is an additional 0.7
million acres of tree-covered private land, located around homesteads and
vilLages, which serve as a major source of wood for the rural population.
The natural forests and plantations are under the administrative control of
the Ministry of Agriculture's Forest Department (FD), while the "unclassed
state forests" are controlled by the District Administration.
32.     Forest plantations have been confined largely to hill areas and have
concentrated on the production of traditional long rotation species such as
teak and the introduction of short rotation species to supply the pulp and
paper industry. This type of "industrial plantation," which involves the
production of both fuelwood and wood products for commercial use, is cur-
rently practiced on about 395,000 acres and relies mainly on a management
system involving the artificial regeneration of natural forests following
clear felling of logged areas. These operations, however, have experienced a
high rate of failure and many ongoing operations are estimated to have little
or no commercial value. This poor performance record has been attributed to:
outdated forest management plans; inadequate funding; poor quality planting
stock; lack of post-establishment maintenance; poor site selection and incom-
patible species mixtures; heavy incidence of disease and pest infestation;
and illegal removal of stems in some older plantations. A special form of
plantation management developed during recent years has been the estab-
lishment of mangrove plantations on new areas of sediment in the delta zone.
in addition to the production of timber, primarily for fuelwood, these plan-



-10-
tations serve to consolidate and increase the rate of land accretion and to
provide protection against cyclones. Approximately 155,000 acres of mangrove
plantations have been established. During the May 1985 cyclone, the mangrove
plantations along with cyclone shelters on coastal islands were reported to
have helped reduce the loss of life.
33.     Total wood production at present is estimated at only 330 Mft3, of
which about 61% is used as fuelwood, 35% for sawn timber, and the balance
(4%) for all other uses, including poles and pulpwood. Of the total wood
production, only about one-sixth is produced from government-owned FD
operations. The baLance is derived from forested areas around homesteads and
villages and illicit fellings from government forests. Government receipts
from the sector, mainly through royalties collected by the FD, have increased
over the last ten years and were around Tk 300 M in 1982/83, about 1% of
total government receipts. Annual exports of wood and wood products, prin-
cipally newsprint, have ranged from US$4.2 million to US$9.2 million over
the last four years, while annual imports, primarily kraft paper and
paperboard, have ranged from US$6.0 million to US$12.5 million during the
same period.
34.     The present annual per capita consumption of wood, estimated at 3.5
ft3, is among the lowest in the world. With the population projected to
increase to around 140 M by the year 2000, per capita wood consumption is
likely to decline further unless plantation programs are expanded. Assuming
a modest increase in per capita consumption to 3.9 ft3, the demand in 2000
would be around 322 M ft3 of fuelwood and 222 M ft3 of timber including poles
and pulpwood. In contrast, the maximum projected supply (based on allowable
cut) would only be about 125 M ft3 of fuelwood and 44 M ft3 of timber.  There
is, therefore, a critical need to expand new plantings and improve the
management of existing forest resources.
Forestry Institutions
35.     Forestry Department (FD).  The FD, which is part of the Ministry of
Agriculture, is responsible for the administration and development of
national forest resources. The FD is headed by a Chief Conservator, assisted
by three Deputy Chief Conservators, five Assistant Chief Conservators, and a
Conservator of Forests at headquarters. In addition, there are six circles
headed by Conservators in the field, operating under the direction of the
Chief Conservator, who are responsible for the administration of 31 forest
divisions. Present technical staff of FD totals 4,325 of which 110 are
graduate professional foresters, 746 are subprofessionals (forest rangers)
and 3,469 are junior staff (foresters and forest guards). Current plans call
for the gradual elimination of the subprofessional cadre of forest rangers,
who will be upgraded to professional foresters after receiving additional
training (paragraphs 36 and 52).
36.     Training.  Professional foresters receive training either overseas or
at the Institute of Forestry, which was established in 1977 as part of the
Faculty of Sciences at the University of Chittagong. The current enrollment
is 32 students. The Institute offers a four-year program leading to a



-11-
Bachelor of Science degree in forestry. The University of Chittagong is
dependent on funds allocated by the Ministry of Education through the
University Grants Commission. Funds are shared among the various faculties
of the University. The Institute receives its allocations through the
Faculty of Science. In the past, the Faculty of Science has tended to give
priority in allocating funds to its own staff and the Institute has been
inadequately funded. The Government has agreed that the Institute of
Forestry will receive adequate funds at all times for annual operating expen-
ses under the proposed project. These funds would be provided directly
through the University Grants Commission. FD maintains a Forest School at
Sylhet, which provides technical training for junior level foresters and
forest guards. and a Forest College at Chittagong, which provides in-service
training for professional and junior-level foresters and a two-year training
course for forest rangers.
37.     Research.  Forest Research is the responsibility of the Bangladesh
Forest Research Institute (BFRI) at Chittagong, which has 17 field research
stations and a total staff of 690, including 176 professionals and 181 tech-
nical level staff. Until recently BFRI operated as a unit of FD, but is now
an independent organization under the Ministry of Agriculture. Applied
research in mangrove afforestation is the responsibility of FD and is con-
ducted through a Plantation Trial Unit (PTU) established in FD under the
IDA-financed Mangrove Afforestation Project (Credit 1042-BD). The Government
proposes transferring PTU to BFRI in FY86. BFRI currently receives assis-
tance from U`NDP/FAO and is receiving funds for forestry research under the
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council's contract research scheme under the
IDA-financed Second Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1455-BD).
AdditionaL support to FD activities is provided by the Space Research and
Remote Sensing Organization in Dhaka which is involved in the production of
maps of coastal areas using Landsat imagery to chart land accretion and
mangrove plantation areas.
38.     Forest Industries.  Forest industries in Bangladesh consist of 4 pulp
and paper mills, 13 board mills, 2 timber treatment plants, 22 match
factories, and 1,634 sawmills. Of these, all 4 pulp and paper mills, 1
hardboard mill, 1 particle board mill, and 4 match factories are operated by
the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), and 1 Large-scale
sawmill, 2 timber treatment plants, 1 particle board plant, 1 hardboard mill,
and 1 plywood mill are operated by the Bangladesh Forest Industries
Development Corporation (BFIDC). Both BCIC and BFIDC are government owned.
The remaining board mills, match factories, and sawmills are operated by the
private sector. Private contractors are invo].ved in small manual logging
operations in more accessible forest areas. Logging operations in the more
remote hill forest areas of the Chittagong Hill Tracts are the responsibility
of BFIDC. Wood from Government-owned plantations and logging operations is
either supplied directly to BFIDC operations or sold at public auction with a
minimum price established to cover production costs. Villagers who collect
wood from public lands are charged prices which are adequate to guarantee
full cost recovery to t;e Government. Poles produced on Government planta-
tions are provided to the Rural Electrification Board on a priority basis at
prices adequate to ensure full cost recovery. Forest industries suffer from



-12-
a shortage of raw material in relation to the installed manufacturing
capacity, inferior technical equipment and a lack of trained personnel.
Constraints to Development
39.     The greatest single constraint to forestry development in Bangladesh
is land availability in the face of population pressure. Easily accessible
forests have been depleted through uncontrolled felling for fuelwood and
agricultural land. The remaining forests are largely confined to areas where
remoteness, lack of security, unsuitability for farming due to infertility of
soils, salinity, or flooding, have rendered alternative land uses
impractical. Similarly, past plantation activities have been limited largely
to remote areas such as the Chittagong Hill Tracts or to coastal areas of
newly accreted land. The establishment of plantations in the Chittagong Hill
Tracts avoids the problems associated with population pressure (population
density is only about 1OZ of lowland areas), but the area's very remoteness,
the lack of roads and other infrastructure, and the recently aggravated
problems of security involving tribal populations restrict the rate of
development.
40.     A general lack of adequate financing is another major constraint.
Development budget allocations have been sufficient for only a modest scale
of development. Restricted budget allocations have allowed only limited
expenditures for essential infrastructure such as staff housing and for
operating and maintenance costs. Forest education and training at aLl levels
suffers from inadequate funding and the resulting lack of motivated,
experienced ter-'ing staff.  Teaching aids, equipment and books and major
investments in improved training facilities are also required. Low skill
levels and inadequate training of forestry personnel are further constraints
to forestry development.
41.     Finally, resource management has been hampered by a lack of basic
information on forest inventories and socioeconomic data on the areas sur-
rounding plantations. With assistance from UNDP/FAO, an inventory of hill
forests is underway and shouLd be completed by mid-1986 (paragraph 50). The
resulting information will be used in preparing management plans for the
industrial plantations. Additional applied research is required in silvicul-
ture and management of mangrove plantations, including a detailed study of
land accretion and ecological succession. Better information is also
required concerning issues such as public attitude toward the development of
forest resources in areas where illicit felling is a major problem in
industrial plantations. The development of information concerning this type
of socioeconomic issue wouLd be a prerequisite for the selection of sites for
short rotation fuelwood plantations and for the formulation of an adequate
management plan to encourage local cooperation and to provide greater protec-
tion for longer rotation industrial plantations. Studies of socioeconomic
issues such as village employment and fuelwood collection privileges would be
included in the proposed project for industrial plantations. A major dif-
ficulty in the mangrove areas is that villagers do not appreciate the value
of mangroves for stabilizing the land and increasing its agricultural
poten-ial. Villagers feel that the lands under mangrove should have been



-13-
allocated immediately for agriculture and grazing. There is clearly a need
for improvement of the public information and communications program
initiated under the IDA-financed Mangrove Afforestation Project (paragraphs
44, 48 and 50).
Government Policy
42.     A 1983 FAO/CP survey of the forestry sector identified the following
principal requirements: improved utilization and management of indigenous
forests co support industry; an accelerated plantation program to provide
additional raw material for industry and to supply domestic requirements for
fuelwood and timber; and the development of coastal plantations. The present
Government poLicy reflects the findings of the 1983 survey. In addition, the
Third Five-Year Plan (FY86-FY90), which is under preparation, would specify
the following objectives for the plan period: maximization of production in
Government-owned and private homestead forests; provision of protection
against cyclones, tidal bore and soil erosion; and development of outdoor
recreation. While the FD's current programs are in line with these policy
directives, these efforts can only be sustained with considerable external
financing.
External Assistance to Forestry
43.     There are six donor-assisted forestry-reLated projects under way in
Bangladesh, including two IDA-financed credits: (i) the Mangrove
Afforestation Project (Credit 1042-BD), which provides for the afforestation
of newly formed land in delta areas (paragraph 44); and (ii) the recently
approved Second Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1455-BD), which sup-
ports BARC's research activities (paragraph 37). The Community Forestry
Project, assisted by the Asian Development Bank (ADB), involves the develop-
ment of plantations on communal and private land (village and homestead
plantings) for the production of fuelwood and small timber in seven western
districts of the country. A possible follow-up project covering the remain-
ing districts is under preparation by ADB. A small forestry companent of an
ADB-assisted integrated rural development project provides for reforestation
in Chittagong Hill Tracts. In addition, UNDP and FAO are supporting the FD
in completing an inventory of natural forests and plantations; the United
Kingdom's Overseas Development Administration is assisting the FD in car-ying
out an inventory of the Sundarban mangrove forests; and the Swedish
International Development Agency is providing assistance for the development
of pulpwood plantations.
Experience with Past Lending
44.     The Mangrove Afforestation Project (Credit 1042-BD), approved in
1980, began IDA s involvement in forestry and primarily involves the produc-
tion of fuelwood and the protection of newly formed land in coastal areas.
It was financed with a Credit of US$11.0 million to enable the FD to expand
its ongoing mangrove afforestation program. The project provided for the
establishment of 100,000 acres of mangrove plantations and management of some
80,000 acres of existing plantations. The project also established a



-14-
Plantation Trial Unit (PTU) for applied research (paragraph 37) and initiated
a program to monitor plantation establishment, land accretion and erosion
through aerial photography and remote sensing. Funds were also provided for
staff salaries, staff quarters, transport, the strengthening of forestry
training institutions, and a public information and communication program.
Overall project performance has been satisfactory. About 75,000 acres of
plantations have been established and the target of 100,000 acres is expected
to be reached by the current closing date of December 31, 1985. Procurement
has been completed and the final phase of the civil works program is under
way. It has been proposed, however, that this credit be extended by six
months to June 30, 1986 to provide for the rehabilitation of 7,500 acres of
young plantations and some infrastructure damaged during the May 1985 cyclone
utilizing a portion of anticipated credit savings of approximately US$4.4
million which has resulted primarily from currency depreciation. Management
of existing plantations under Cr. 1042-BD has not been as effective as
anticipated, largely because the PTU has been unable to develop a satisfac-
tory thinning methodology. Also, the public information and communication
program is nut operational, as the FD has not been able to develop suitable
publicity materials. The proposed project would address this problem through
the development of an improved public information program, to be based on the
results of a socioeconomic survey (paragraph, 48), which would be designed to
increase village-level awareness of the benefits to be gained through the
development of mangrove plantations on adjacent land. In addition, important
technical lessons have been learned during project implementation (i.e.,
rotation, spacing, coordination among agencies) and have been incorporated in
the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The proposed project was prepared by the Government with FAO/CP
assistance and was appraised in November 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 5588-BD, dated October 9, 1985) is being distributed separately.
A timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of
the credit are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in
September 1985. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a delegation
led by Mr. S.A. Mahmood, Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture.
Objectives and Description
46.     The primary objective of the proposed project would be to expand and
adequately maintain forest areas in order to: (i) increase the supply of
fuelwood for domestic consumption; (ii) provide protection against cyclones,
tidal bores, and soil erosion; and (iii) increase tie supply of wood products
for industrial and commercial uses. The proposed project would continue the
program of afforestation of newly accreted land begun under the Mangrove
Afforestation Project (Credit 1042-BD) and would support improved utilization
and management of indigenous forests. Specific project components would
include: (a) the establishment of about 100,000 acres of mangrove
plantations, and maintenance of about 200,000 acres of existing plantations;



-15-
(b) the establishment of about 58,000 acres of industrial plantations, and
maintenance of about 70,000 acres of existing plantations; (c) the estab-
lishment of Resource Management Systems for mangrove plantations and other
forest resources; (d) support of mangrove afforestation research; and (e)
training of forestry personnel and improvement and expansion of forestry
educatioa and training facilities. The education and training, research,
institutional strengthening, and resource management efforts which would be
supported under the project would make an important contribution to the
longer-term development of Bangladesh's overall forest resources.
Detailed Description
47.     Manarove Plantations.  The project would support mangrove afforesta-
tion programs in the four coastal forestry divisions of Barisal, Chittagong,
Noakhali and Patuakhali. A total of 100,000 acres would be planted and
200,000 acres of existing plantations would be maintained. New plantation
areas would be established utilizing existing techniques, although improved
procedures may be introduced during project implementation, depending on the
results of the applied research program for mangroves (paragraph 51).
Maintenance activities would include vacancy filling for young plantations
established prior to the project, climber cutting as a standard silvicultural
treatment during the sixth year, and thinning during the eighth year of older
plantations. The project would support the Bangladesh Space Research and
Remote Sensing Organization's continued program of monitoring through remote
sensing and aerial photography of changes along the coastline due to
land accretion and erosion and progress in plantation establishment
(paragraph 37). The project would finance housing for incremental staff
working in remote areas, office and residential buildings for FD field staff,
boats, vehicles, equipment, and incremental recurrent costs, including staff
alaries and operating and maintenance costs.
48.     Current arrangements provide for FD control over newly accreted land
suitable for the establishment of mangrove plantations for a period of ten
years under an agreement between the Ministry of Land Administration and Land
Reform (MLALR) and the Ministry of Agriculture.  Following this ten-year
period, FD is required to turn over the harvested mangrove land to MLALR for
distribution to the landless and other farmers for agriculture or shrimp
farming. Given the minimum required rotation of ten years for mangrove
plantations, this present arrangement, which will expire in 1986, requires
revision and extension. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that
arrangements would be made, satisfactory to IDA, for FD to retain control
over lands under mangrove plantations established under the Project until the
maturity of said plantations. An additional condition of credit effective-
ness would be the establishment of a Coordinating Committee, with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, for the purpose of assisting MLAT.R
in defining priorities for its program of surveying newly accreted land and
to address problems of land use allocation. Under the project's Resource
Management System component (paragraph 50), a socioeconomic study would be
conducted to explore the problems of land use allocation and propose actions
FD staff could undertake to foster support among local villagers for the
development of adjacent mangrove plantations.



-16-
49.     Industrial Plantations.  The project would establish about 58,000
acres of industrial plantations and maintain about 70,000 acres of existing
plantations in the hill forests of the Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox's Bazaar
Eorestry divisions. The Chittagong Hill Tracts are not included in the
proposed project area due to remoteness and ongoing security risks
(paragraph 39). New plantations would be established to regenerate logged
over naturaL forests and to reafforest degraded and barren forest sites in
oraer to increase fuelwood production and the supply of wood products for
indtLstrial and commercial uses. Plantations would be established under four
dist i`nct management systems: long rotation (40 years) primarily for the
production of sawlogs; short rotation (18 years) for the production of poles,
utilit, timber, and fuelwood; short rotation (12 years) for the production o'
peelers, utility timber and fuelwood; and very short rotation (6 years) for
the production of fuelwood. The first year's planting program, which would
not include short-rotation fuelwood plantations, would be based on management
criteria which have been reviewed and accepted by IDA. Subsequent planting
would be based on management plans to be prepared following completion of
inventories and a socioeconomic study of fuelwood consumption patterns and
the attitudes of local residents towards the development of industrial
plantations. This socioeconomic study would be executed by consultants under
the project's Resource Management System component (paragraph 50). A condi-
tion of credit disbursement against expenditures for the development of short
rotation fuelwood plantations would be that sites for such plantations for
the first year of fuelwood planting had been selected according to the find-
ings of the socioeconomic study and are accertable to IDA. The project would
support the production of seedlings in nurseries and would provide for the
construction of semi-permanent nursery sheds adjacent to planting areas.
Maintenance activities would involve the establishment of a program of sil-
viculture treatment for both newly established and existing industrial
plantations. The project would provide for office and residential buildings
for incremental staff, the construction of about 480 miles of access roads in
plantation areas and the purchase of vehicles, farm tractors and trailers,
and office and field equipment. The project would also finance incremental
recurrent costs, including staff salaries and operating and maintenance
costs.
50.     Resource Management System.  The ongoing FAO/UNDP technical assis-
tance program (paragraph 43), scheduled for completion in June 1986, is
designed to formulate a model management plan for forests in Chittagong and
Cox's Bazaar. The FAO/UNDP program would be extended under the project by
a further 12 months and its scope expanded to include the preparation of:
(a) inventories of resources in Sylhet forest division and mangrove
plantations; (b) the socioeconomic survey required for the development ot
industrial plantations in Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar and Sylhet forest divi-
sions (paragraph 49); (c) the socioeconomic study of mangrove plantations
(paragraph 48); and (d) a comprehensive management plan for hill forests in
Chittagong, Cox's Bazaar, and Sylhet divisions and mangrove plantations. The
project would provide for 24 man-months of local consultants and 54 man-
months of international consultants. Following the first year of plantings,
the industrial plantation program, including the establishment of short



-17-
rotation fuelwood plantations, would be based on management plans prepared
following finalization of the forest inventories ond the socioeconomic study.
By June 1, 1986 the Government would furnish to IDA for comment: (i) the
findings of the socioeconomic study for mangrove plantations; (ii) the find-
ings of the socioeconomic study required for the further development of short
rotation fuelwood plantations included in the project's industrial
plantation; and (iii) draft management plans for the industrial plantations
programs. By December 31, 1986, the Government would furnish to IDA the
complete management plans for the mangrove and industrial plantations
programs.
51.     Mangrove Afforestation Research.  The project would support a five-
year applied research program covering silviculture and management of
mangrove plantations and a detailed study of land accretion, ecological
succession and land _apability. The program would be conducted by the PTU
within BFRI (paragraph 37). The project would finance incremental staff
salaries, a vehic,e, work boats, field accommdoations, worker barracks, and
Laboratory equipment. BFRI would be provided with four man months of con-
sultant services to assist in implementing the research program.
52.     Forestry Education and Training.  The project would support training
programs and the expansion and improvement of facilities at the three
forestry training institutions (paragraph 36): the Institute of Forestry at
the University of Chittagong, the Forest School at Sylhet and the Forest
College at Chittagong. The project would establish a full-fledged campus for
the Institute of Forestry, which trains professional foresters, with academic
buildings, staff housing, and dormitory space for about 140 students. Under
the project about 35 new students would be admitted to the Institute's four-
year degree program each year. The project would finance overseas fellow-
ships for graduate training of six Institute training staff, 156 man months
of internationally recruited teaching staff, including a technical director,
and operating and maintenance costs. Until the Institute of Forestry is
fully developed, the project would provide two years of overseas fellowships
for 23 professional foresters. At the Forest School, the training of
foresters would be upgraded from a one-year to a three-year course leading to
a diploma. No change wouid be made in the present training of forest guards,
which consists of a three-month course. The project would finance additional
academic buildings for the School, staff housing, dormitories, laboratory
equipment, teaching materials (including the translation and publication of
materials in Bengali), and incremental recurrent costs including staff
salaries and operating and maintenance costs. Under the project, about 100
students would be enrolled each year in the Forest School's three-year
foresters (technical level) training course, and about 150 forest guards
would participate in the School's three-month training program each year.
The Forest College would be used for in-service training and would offer
training to upgrade rangers from subprofessional to full professional level
(paragraph 35). The project would finance a student dormitory, laboratory
equipment, books, teaching materials, vehicles for field visits, and operat-
ing and maintenance costs. Incremental recurrent costs at the three training
institutions would be financed on a declining basis (paragraph 58). All
construction sites needed for the expansion of facilities are already owned



-18-
by the Government. A condition of credit effectiveness would be the appoint-
ment of consultants to prepare architectural designs for the expansion of the
Institute of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School. A condition
of credit disbursement against expenditures for civil works would be the
completion of architectural designs satisfactory to IDA.
Proiect ManaRement and Implementation
53.     The project would be implemented over a five-year period.  The prin-
cipal entities responsible for project implementation would be the FD, BFRI
and the University of Chittagong. The PD would be responsible for the estab-
lishment and maintenance of industrial and mangrove plantations under the
management of regional FD Conservators. The FD would also be responsible for
the implementation and management of the forestry education and training
component, except for professional forest education which would be conducted
at the Institute of Forestry at the University of Chittagong under the
management of the Director of the Institute. FAO would be the executing
agency for the technical assistance and training components of the project.
54.     The Director of BFRI would be responsible for all aspects of the
mangrove research program which would be prepared with the assistance of a
consultant engaged under the ongoing Mangrove Afforestation Project (Credit
1042-BD). The mangrove research program would be carried out in accordance
with a time schedule and implementation procedures satisfactory to IDA. A
manual of procedures for the administration of research schemes, acceptable
to IDA, has beeu published by the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council.
Proiect Costs
55.     Total costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$36.0 mil-
lion equivalent, of which US$9.0 million (25%) would be foreign exchange
costs and US$0.36 million (1Z) duties and taxes. The base cost is estimated
as of June 1985. Physical contingencies are 5% for plantation activities,
laboratory and field equipment and civil works. Price contingencies,
accounting for 27Z of base costs, plus physical contingencies are estimated
on the basis of rates of inflation projected by the Bank. Estimates for
local inflation rates are: 12% for FY86 and 10% thereafter. International
rates of inflation are estimated at 3.3% for FY86, 7Z for FY87, 7.3% for
FY88, 7.6% for FY89 and 7.72 for FY90.
Proiect FinancinR
56.     IDA would finance approximately 78% (US$28.0 million), UNDP 12%
(US$4.3 million) and the Government 10% (US$3.7 million) of total project
costs. Duties and taxes would be US$0.36 million. Financing from foreign
sources would amount to US$32.3 million, representing 90% of total project
cost net of duties and taxes, which would cover 100% of foreign exchange
costs and 87% of net local costs. The IDA credit would finance plantation
activities (US$15.3 million), vehicles and equipment (US$2.4 million), civil
works (US$4.7 million) and recurrent costs (US$5.6 million). A UNDP Grant of
US$4.3 million would finance technical assistance and overseas training. The



-1 9-
fulfillment by the Government of all conditions precedent to the effective-
ness of the UNDP Project Document would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. An additional condition of credit effectiveness would be
Government approval of the Project Proforma, an internal Government document,
approval of which is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring
of staff. IDA would provide retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million
for expenditures incurred by FD after December 1, 1984, for the establishment
of nurseries and initial mangrove and industrial plantings for the first year
of the project.
Procurement
57.     International competitive bidding (ICB) would be inappropriate for
civil works contracts because: (i) works would mainly consist of small con-
tracts scattered throughout the project area and over the project period; and
(ii) construction techniques would be labor intensive. Civil works contracts
would be let through local competitive bidding (LCB), following procedures
acceptable to IDA, with the exception of nurseries and vehicle sheds which
could be constructed through force account. Vehicles (including work boats)
and outboard engines would be procured through LCB. Laboratory and teaching
equipment, books and journals financed by UNDP would be procured according to
UNDP procedures. (Under an agreement with the Government, the Technical
Cooperation Equipment and Subcontracting Branch (EQUIPRO) of the ILO would
handle procurement of this equipment.) Small items of field and teaching
equipment, books and journals financed under the IDA credit, up to an
aggregate amount of US$800,000 equivalent, would be procured through prudent
shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations. Miscellaneous
items of field equipment would be zrouped in appropriate bidding packages and
procured through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. For procurement
under ICB, a preference limited to 15 percent of the cif price or the
prevailing customs duty, v-ich ever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers in the evalr.ation of bids. Plantation activities would be
carried out by force accou-it by FD. Consultancy services, which would be
financed by UNDP, would be procured in accordance with UNDP guidelines.
Bidding documents for civil works contracts costing US$250,000 or more and
for equipment and vehicles costing US$75,000 or more would be submitted to
IDA for review prior to invitation to bid.



-20-
Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
Procurement Method
ICB   LCB   Prudent  Force   Other/a  Total
Project Element                                Shopping Account
Investment Costs
Plantation Activities               -     -       -        15.9    -        15.9
(15.3)          (15.3)
Civil Works                         -    4.9       -        -     0.1        5.0
(4.7)                              (4.7)
Vehicles and Equipment             0.3   2.1      0.1       -     0.7        3.2
(0.3) (2.0)   (0.1)                      (2.4)
Technical Assistance
and Training                      -     -                 -     3.5        3.5
Total Investment Costs             0.3   7.0     0.1       15.9   4.3       27.6
(0.3) (6.7)   (0.1)    (15.3)           (22.4)
Recurrent Costs                                                              8.4
(5.6)
Total Costs                                                                 36.0
(28.0)
/a Procurement following UNDP procedures.
7' Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
Disbursements
58.     The IDA credit wouLd be disbursed over a six-year period as compared
to an average disbursement period for agricultural projects in South Asia of
eight years. Comparatively rapid disbursement is expected because 75Z of the
credit would be disbursed against expenditures for scheduled plantation
activities and recurrent costs, while the remaining disbursements, primarily
for civil works, vehicles and equipment, are scheduled to take place during
the first three years of project implementation. -This disbursement schedule
is consistent with the rate of disbursement experienced under the ongoing
Credit 1042-BD (paragraph 44). Disbursements under the credit would be on
the basis of: (a) 952 of total civil works; (b) 100Z of foreign expenditures
for directly imported vehicles and equipment, 100% ex-factory expenditures
for locally manufactured goods and 70Z of total expenditures for other goods
procured locally; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 95Z of local expendi-
tures for plantation establishment; (d) for maintenance of existing
plantations, on a declining basis: 90Z until cumulative disbursements under
this category reach US$0.7 million, 70% until US$1.4 million, 50% until
US$2.2 million, and 30Z until US$2.9 million; and (e) for staff salaries and
operating and maintenance costs, on a declining basis: 9OZ until cumulative
disbursements under this category reach US$0.6 million, 701 until US$1.2



-21-
million, 50X until US$1.9 million, and 30Z until US$2.4 million. Withdrawal
applications fur all goods under (b) and civil works under (a), except for
small civil works contracts costing less than US$20,000 equivalent and for
payments made in respect of force account, would be fully documented.
Disbursements against small civil works contracts costing less than US$20,000
equivalent, force account, plantation activities, incremental recurrent costs
including incremental staff salaries and operating and maintenance costs, and
maintenance costs of existing plantations would be made on the basis of
certified statements of expenditures. In order to facilitate disbursement of
the IDA credit, a Special Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit into the
Special Account would be US$2.1 million.
Accounts and Audit
59.     The Government would maintain records adequate to identify physical
progress and financial transactions relating to the project. Separate
accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Independent
auditors, acceptable to IDA, would audit the project accounts each year. The
auditor's report would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of a
fiscal year, and would include an opinion as to whether the credit funds
disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the purposes
for which they were provided.
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.     FD's Monitoring Unit would be responsible for monitoring overall
project progress based on information provided by the respective implementing
agencies and would prepare semiannual progress reports. The University of
Chittagong would collect, analyze, and provide information on the number of
applicants, enrollments, and graduates at the Institute of Forestry, the
numbe-: of graduates employed by FD, BFIDC and other educational institutions,
and information on the number of staff at the Institute, staff qualifications
and rate of turnover. For the Forest School and Forest College, the informa-
tion to be provided would include the number of FD staff who complete various
courses and information on staff numbers, qualifications, and turnover at the
two institutions. FD would collect data and report on plantation activities.
Environmental Impact
61.     There would be no adve-se environmental impact arising from the
project. The industrial plantation program would contribute towards arrest-
ing the deforestation of the country's national forests and would have an
important positive impact on the microclimate, flora, fauna and general
environment in the project area. The mangrove afforestation program would
increase the rate of soil accretion.



-22-
Tribal Populations
62.     There is a small tribal population living in villages in the hill
forests within the project area. This tribal population livea on lands
allocated to them by the FD and is given full use of the land in exchange for
providing labor for patrol duty, assisting FD staff, and for work on
stretches of the FD road near the village. The proposed project would have
no negative impact on these tribal villagers. In fact, extension of the FD
plantation program would provide greater employment opportunities to
villagers.
Project Benefit and Justification
63.     One direct benefit of the project would be the production of about
585 M ft3 of wood (169 M ft3 of peeler logs, sawlogs and poles and 416 H ft3
of fuelwood) over the economic life of the project. This production would
help to maintain the supply of wood for industrial use as well as for fuel
consumption. The strengthening of the educational institutions and provision
of training and technical assistance, coupled with the resource management
and research programs, would improve the country's ability to manage its
forestry resources efficiently. Other benefits, which are difficult to
quantify, such as increasing the rate of land accretion and providing protec-
tion against cyclones in the coastal areas, would also accrue under the
project. Assuming that, without the project, the government would allow
imports to ease the shortage of raw materials for wood based industries,
there would be savings in foreign exchange of about US$460 million over a
period of 37 years. Similarly, increased availability of fuelwood would
reduce the use of imported kerosene, and agricultural wastes, which are used
as substitute fuels, would be available for fodder and fertilizer. About
63,800 man-years of labor would be provided during the project period.
Financial and Economic Rate of Return
64.     Financial analysis was undertaken both for mangrove and industrial
plantings. The estimated financial rates of return for mangrove
afforestation, industrial plantations, and total plantations are 15%, 18%,
and 17%, respectively. The project's overall economic rate of return, based
only on benefits from plantations and excluding the costs of education and
training which would benefit the national forestry sector, would be about
20%, with rates averaging around 17% for mangrove plantations and 22% for
industrial plantations. Benefits would have to decline by 55Z or costs would
have to increase by 123% for the project to prove uneconomic, assuming the
opportunity cost of capital is 122.
Project Risks
65.     Heavy sedimentation, erosion and cyclones pose a possible risk to
certain areas and necessitate careful mangrove plantation site selection.
The FD has gained experience in site selection and land monitoring, and
surveying techniques have been improved. The risk due to erosion and
sedimentation, therefore, is considered small. The risk of loss from cyclone



-23-
damage has been minimized by the distribution of plantations over a wide
area. Theft and illegal grazing could pose a risk to industrial plantations
established and/or maintained under the project. To combat this problem, the
project would provide for the establishment of short rotation fuelvood
plantations, adjacent to populated areas, which would provide a local supply
of fuelwood and, thereby, reduce pressures on long rotation plantatious which
are designed for the production of industrial wood products and to provide
fuelwood for urban markets. The site selected for short rotation fuelvood
plantations would be based on a socioeconomic study which would provide an
analysis of local fuelwood usage patterns and information needed by the
Forest Department to foster support among local villagers for the development
and maintenance of these fuelwood plantations. An additional possible risk
would be to the Institute of Forestry in the University of Chittagong.
Recently there has been student unrest in Bangladesh universities which, if
it recurs, could disrupt implementation of the education and training
component. Should this occur, this risk could be minimized by the provision
of additional overseas fellowships for the training of professional
foresters.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors apprnve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washixgton, D. C.
October 17, 1985



-24-                                               n r
T A b L r,                                         PAG
UANCLADESM             - SOCIAL INDCAOR  DATA
BANGLADESH                            RMECRB GROUrS (ISIQWRD AVURGUs)
wis                     (Own kEGUT K11TI(T) lb
RICNT             LaO INGOt             KIDDLE UCOs
196db      i97! ESTlnIATRII          ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA * PACIFIC
M (TOAwD SQ. O)
STOAL                              144.o       144.0       144.0
ACRIuLTURAL                         94.6        97.0        97.4
n PrR CAPITA C(US)                      ..          ..        130.0              278.3                   1011.1
EmNEY WHm   rIC  PMR CArAT
(KILOGRAZS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        ..         20.0        35.0             255.7                     504.8
10r1ATI1 mN VITAL BAnSTUICS
POPULATXOH,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  53491.0    65117.0    95497.0
URA  POPULATION (C UF TOTAL)         5.2         7.6        17.0               22.3                     35.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POrULATION 1N YtAI 200 (UILL)                            141.1
SrATIONArI POPULATION (NILL)                             310.0
POPULATION MRNNTta                                         1.9
POPULATION DENsITY
PER Sq. at.                      371.5       473.0       63.2              173.1                     386.9
PER SQ. EI. ACT. LAND            565.3       702.5      955.3              353.3                    1591.2
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                         44.2        46.2        43.6               36.3                     3N.2
15-64 YKS                         52.5        51.1        53.6              59.4                      57.7
65 AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.6         2.6                4.3                      3.5
POPULATION cRu110 RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4         2.6                2.0                      2.3
URBAN                              3.7         6.2        6Z2                4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRtT  RATE (PER THOUS)       46.8        48.0        41.5               27.5                     30.1
CRUDE DEATH RAZZ (PEw 11T0U)        22.5        20.9        15.7              10.2                       9.4
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4         3.4         3.1                1.7                      1.9
FAMILT PLAWN LOG
ACEPTOES ANNUAL (THO1 S)           ..        373.0      1607.0 Ic
USERS CZ OF MAIEURD WEl)           ..          ..         25.0 7d           49.4                      56.5
oO MAD   nMTION
INDEI OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      106.0       101.0        94.0              116.6                    124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOIES (S Of REQUIREMENTS)       63.0        90.0        63.0             IU6.3                     115.7
PROTEINS (tAS PER DAY)            43.0        45.0       42.0               60.1                      60.3
OF RH1C  ANNAL AND PULSE          9.0         9.0         7.0 i             14.4                     14.1
CHLWD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         25.*        22.6        19.0                7.3                      7.2  -
HIILTH
LIVE DtEcT. AT SIRTH (TEARS)        43.5        44.9        49.6              60.5                      6U.6
INFANT SOR. RATE (PER THOUS)       159.0       150.0      132.0               69.2                      64.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (Rior)
TOTAL                              . .         5.0        31.0 Ic           44.2                      46.0
URBAN                              ..         13.0       26.G T7            77.2                      57.6
RURAL                              . .        f.0         40.0 7T           34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          6.0         3.0 Ic             7.8                     50.1
URBAN                              ..          ..         21. T             26A                       52.9
RURAL                              ..          ..         t.0 7;             5.5                      44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICTA              ..       8430.0     7810.0             3318.0                    7751.7
POP. PER NURSI.G PERSON              ..      76810.0    Z2570.0             4690.7                    264.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              *        7020.0 IL  4090.0              1039.2                   1112.1
URIBA                              ..        810.0 7!'  600.0 I.           299.1                     651.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      23470.0 I.         6028.2                    259b.4
ADiLSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..          ..               52.3                      41.1
IISTS_
AVERXE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLO
TOTAL                              ..          5.9 1/      5.6 le
URBAN                              ..          6.1 T7    6*. T..
RURAL                              ..          S.9 /f      5.6 /c.
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROGI
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
PERCENrACE OF SELLINGS IM  ELECT.
TOTAL     -                        ..          ..          3.5 /c
URBAN                              ..          ..
RUJAL                              ..          ..



-25-                                              AUWEX Z
l~~~~~~~~LwIC uta Avcs                     u  1=s
am6&       I971A  35I3AU           astA b VAWIC          ASIA4 6 VACIVIC
ADJUSU   iODLUISI MTIS
PRInAR    TOTAL                  47*.0      520          0.              12.0                    10.7
PALR                  obe0        "6e        61.*             last.                    106.1
VUWA.                 26.0        34.0       31.0              71.2                     V7.2
iRtUalTai TOMA                    5.0       J9*         53.0             21.                      47*
mat                    14.0       29.        2.00              4.                       5.6
FD=                    1.,         8*         6.0              21.,                     "4.
VOCATICUL CZ Or S IME])             1.0        0.3        14.3              3.2                     16.4
IUPIL-'UACNUI RATIO
paU                               ..        450          5.014          3S.0                      2.4
SIRWDAU                           ..        26.0        ZI.3             57.4                     22.2
PASSMII  Ch*/T1us1UD NW             ..         0.4        0.4 IL           469                      10.1
mIso UCU5IITUDU    VW. ..                      of         3.5             519.6                    172.1
TV       mu m  M                    ..         ..          .9                .                      3.
N11SPU (CWAY  OUAL
zsuusm) ClMwUnAU
PR 1 n D POuTIU                    ..         ..          Soo             25.7                     63.3
CUIS  ANUA ATRI       N/AT          ..         ..         ..                6.0                      3.
TOTAL    R 11CR (MUDP           1932*    236b5.0    23.3.20                  .
fItz (Plstw                      15.2       16.6        175              02.2                     326
5Ian.TUU (MawC0                  "so         4.         74.0 0           6.6                      52
to us   (11553?                   2.0        2* o   l1*  j               55.3                     17.6
PAZTIIPATICN RlnA (113C3!
TOTAL                            23o        36.7       23.1              41.6                     M6.
HLE                              36.7       ss15        31.3             53*                      26.
VtFALt                           H1.        1.1.9       12.8             26.5                     36.3
tCO30'fC D5loc!aAM                  1.2        1.4        1.2               1* .0
MCa   01 PRf IVATE IN
RECEIvED U
uIGS  St cr WINNOWS              1.3         Oa          ..                                        *
uICmirm  oF w                       -u31n  64.5  "I      *                .46.0
L30 *2a  oFr IuIIIIS               o1t       So?                                                  11 *-  0.4
LOMMT 401 OF 3053151.8           17.6       19*6        ...                                        M5S
LEM  CuS  r corn)
UU                                *-         *-        123* A           133*9
RmUAL                             I- ,.                111 0k 711*                               ISI-.
gSrDUITED RtLATIV  NVUnl INCU
LEVEl. CUss E CAPIT)
0231                              .           ...                                                177.6
RUIRA                             ..         ..         ..               61.1                    164.7
iOwuMr DRca  LEVn CZ)
URBAN                             ..         ..         3 A.0            43.5                     23.5
T. he SgP averamo for .d  laileater me f.r up1.          m    m a*nt41R 1 *m.   t          Om_ f eItah
a_  th  Ludilcato,  4eeft  M amUaMIltR .1 tisa    to on inSem.
/b  Unless *themlee mote4. -Mt for 11W  grufu  to W yaw  bau. 1939 Ml 1_31l "gte g         r    __17W
1149 am  1971; .g data foe 'Ilet _inus  ulme   Rg 6 115 I .. a 965.
Lc  1930; A. 1934;  L 11.7 L. 1973; A  193; A  197 JL 372.
ism &M



-26-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFlNmONS OF SOCIAL I1IDICATOIS
Note: Although tk dd n                            t mom authonaive and reliable. it should also be nosd gha they mnay - be inenatonally
eompmbce t~Mum of te laCk or standardized dgliuttos od coomm und by ddbnnmt eountrin m ZeWMSagllg  the da  T     at. neth    useful to
decbe ordm of nap d.indicate trms andoarten cetan maranmbetena cosieoLn
The refer   groups &ciii hesanecount'  yopf the subjec country and 11 a contry groupsh somewhat hiewr avar -come than he ctwmrnr
group of the sub  countryq saP for High Incom Oil Eporten group where Middle Incom  4onh ^frica and Middle Eas f schoen bause o(ronpr
soao-cultural aifimutL go the  nce group data the berages afe populaton weghted anthmetic means for each indaor and shown onl> shen mqjont
ofIhecountri am a group ha dat for that ndtor. Sisce te coeage o(coune amongl inw mdcatoon depends on the avilabihi ofdaga nd is not uniform.
cauton must be eerscdd lStiung avergs of on m!dlcator so another. Thee avera  am only useful n comparing the 'alue ofne indicator at a time among
she country and efeence group.
AREA Hthoaud sqkln.                                               Cnlr lIt Rat (per trhadj-Number of live births in the year
lotrl-Toad surface a-a comprising land  eama and inland waters    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960.1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cm& Dul Rae (per thuasaadp-Number or deaths in the rear
AgrkinEar-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pernmanedy for cropL pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  CGss Repndnna  Raw-Average number of daughters a woman
lie faUow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertlity raus: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983
market prices. calculated bv samc conversion method as Ibrld      FaamW Paiq-Acceprrs. Annul lrhouzsdw-Annual nun-
Bank .4tast (1981-83 basisl: 1983 data*                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMflPION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commerial pnrnar' energy Icoal and lignite.        Famidy Platnig-Lrs (percent .fnwrfd nomwsrn-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal lec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricitv) in kilogranu. of otl equi%alent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception Women
1982 daa.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. altlough for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other aeg
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Tora Popuilation, M-Year thousandJ-.As of July 1: 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUIRITION
and 1983 data.
'.rn  Popukton (pment of toral)-Ratio of urban to total            idre Qf Foed b wcn.m Pr Cas (1f99-71 - 100J -Index of per
population; different definitions of urban areas ma' affect compar-  capita annual producuon of all food commodities. Production
ability oftdata among countnes: 1961). 170. ind I981 dat.         excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
include pnmary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of ugari
P.lEA[i.n mPb*csions                                              which are edible and contain nutrients Ie.g. coffee and tea are
Populartn m rear 21)00.The projection of population for 2000.     excluded : they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil Mat.
made for each economv ieparately. Starting -uth in!ormation on    'egetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. liestork. and
ttal populaton bv age and sex. firtilis' rutes. mortaiiti rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each countr. is nEcd
iernauonal migration in the base year 1980. these parameters      on naEtonal average producer price waghts: 1961-65. i974j. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptons until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Sply of Calris (perce  of requirentees)-Com put-
Stationarn popvularon-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calone equitalent of net food supplies available in co-ntr
taity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specfic  per capita per day -Available supplies comprise domestic prLduc-
fenirlit rates have simultaneously remained at replacement le%el  oon. imports less expons. and changes in stock. Net suppie%
i net reproduction rate - I Y In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude amrual feed. seeds fur use in arnculture. quantitinS urd in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food procesing. and losses in distnbution. Requiremcnts werr
constant. and the growth rate is zero The stationary population   estimated b! FAO based on physiological needs for no.ral ac1w.:t%
size was estimated on the l-asis of the projec ed charac-cristics of  and health considenne entironmental temperature. bod' weiohts.
the population in the ear 2000. and the rate oftdecline of fertility  age and sex distnbution o' population. and allowing !51 percent for
rate to replacement lctel                                         waste at household lesei. 1961. 190 and 1982 data.
Population MIlomentuw-ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Capite Supply of rorein (rams per day)-Protemn content if
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net suppiv oftfood per day -Net supply offood is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unuty. The momentum of' a populatin  in the year : is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate sationary population to the population in  dav and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein of which I0 crams
the vear r. given the assunption that fertlit remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                          5 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Densisrjr                                              average for the world, proposed b F.AO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tres) of totalarea 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                     Per Capita Poei Supply hrom Amimal and irie--Proien ,Suppiy
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural   of food denved from animals and pulses in arrins per da%. 1961-65
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 197' data.
PopuAaio  Ae S rctue (percent)-Children 10-14 yearsn. work-       ChiW lages 1-4J Death Rate (per thousand-Number of deaths of
ingagelI5-64years). and retired (65 years and oven as percentage  children aged 1-4 vears per thousand children in the sair.e age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 dau.                 group in a given year. For most developing countnes data denied
PoPuatio Growth Rate (perceitj-toral--Annual growth rates of      from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-yen populaton for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.        HEALTH
Popuaion Growt Jatm  tprest)i-han--Annual growth rates            LiJf  Erpercay a Srrh (_tj-N umber of years a new born
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. And 1970-83 data.       infant would live if preailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27-                                               ANNEX I
Page 4
at the ume of of itS birth were t stay the same throughout is life:  PuPd-reaher Rantop - promary. and secondary-To; students cn.
1960. 1970 and 19 3 datu                                     rolled in primary and scondy levels divided by numben of
blame Mee,y Pe (per hnMO-Nurber of infanu who die             laces in dt  cormsponding levb.
before rchigl  one yar of ap per thountd five births in a gpven
yenr; 1960. 1970 and 1913 data.                               CONSUM ION
Acuest So  Wo' (po             of p  r           l -r   'N.  IeseU  W Curs (per thmUn peOplei)-Passnpr cars corn.
rwolu-Number ofpeopls (totaL urba, and rural) with reasonable  pris motor can snting less than eight penons: excludes ambul-
acC  to swaf water suppy (inds trad surflec wae  or           ac. hears  and miitary vehicls.
untreatpd but uncoamnat   wur such U that firom protcted      RA&  aeceiWsr 'per r hmmidpeplime-All types of recevers
borehole. sprinp and sanitry wlb) as pmnttu of their rqc     for radio broadcasts to genral public per thousand of population.
ive population. In an urban ar  a public fountain or sundpost  excludes un-licensed receiven in countnes and in years when
locaed not morn than 200 mrn  from a bouwe may be conf d      registraion of raio sets was i n effc data rot recet yr may
a bein  withi rea ble p     n o th at house. In rural  t      not be comparable since most countrie abolished licnsing.
raonae aces would imply dint the housewf or members or the    TRceies(e hsn  .uulu-' eevr o  racs
housebold do not have to spend a dispportion   part of the day  TV gneli  Pe thouad PpuldtionT  eciues for bndic    set
in fetchinj the ra6y's water reft                             t nmcrl public per thousand population; cidude untlduet TV
incm ftchi  hre amuy Waterd npfds. of Popoiladen)--4of  orb", recivers in countries and in yea  whn rgistration of TV sets was
Aamnr Ez'ra Diesl (prfn ql pplte)-eatal. urb,                 anefect
aid  uel-VUmber of People (totaL urbaL and rural) served by   in   .
excrett disposal   percags of their respective populations.    .*'_W     Cilatd  (per ,hes_Jdp.palmimi-Shows the aver-
Excrmt disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age arculation of -daily genral interet newspapr. defined as a
without treatment. of bumn  excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primranly to eording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit pnvies and similar installatons.  It is consdered to be tdaly' if it appan at least four times a week.
POPElO. pr Phjsuice-Population divided by number of prac-     CWiPA Aitu AteUdwC per CM&n per Yre-Based on the
tizsin physicians qualified from a medical school at university level. -    number of ickets sold dunng the year. including admissions to
,puladw Per ,VNrAin Pas.m-Ibpulation divided by number of     dnve-in cnmas and mobile units
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practal nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
_1101101111dw PO Hosprsf Ozft%-F,06 weL.d ' -Populauon        Tehstet frrLabow Farce Vrh.wzando-Economicalky active persons. in-
(toul urban. and rural) divided by thesr  specuave number of  cluding armed foirces and unemployed but excluding house,&,es.
hotal, beusavanlabe in publicand privatei gneral anduser of   students. etc.. covering population of aU ages. Definitions in
hospitals and mhabviaubon centc  Hospit als are es eabli zed  vanous countries are not comparble; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at last one physician. Establishments prov-  Femr fp )-F nmale labor force as percentage of total labor
Wing prncpally custodial car are not induded. Rural hospils   force.
how-er include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Apiclue (pereT-Lab6r force in fanming. forestry. huntng
bY a phYsican (but by a medical asistnt nurse, midafe. tc.)   and fishing as pescentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
^which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a liumied range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        Indwry fwerentr-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Adw4uimper Haphal &rd-ToEal number of admissions to or        factunng and electricity. water and gs as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force. 1960.  97 0 and 1910 data.
Hwrikiparion Rate (p-erceMk-roaa malk. andfminsel-Parpajon
HOlU SING                                                     or activity rates are computed as totaL male and female Labor force
Ave. ge Si:e of Hosehd (peon pr householdi-orata wuam,        as percentages of toaL male and female population of all ages
andural-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectivelvy 1960. 197 0. and 1983 data. Thes are based on ILO's
living quarters and thewr main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  part3cipation rates reflecting agsex structure of the populauon. and
may not be included in the household for statistcal purposes  long ume trend. A few esumates are from nauoonl sources.
Ave.ae Number of P-ws per Room-ealr, urban, and rural-        Econmc Depexdecy Ratio-Ratio of populauon under 15. and
A ermge number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over, to the working age population ithose aged 1 5-64g.
occupied convenEional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pernanent structures and unoccupied pans.                IVCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwellns with Ekler&ciq--otol arba, and rural-   Perctage of Total Disposablk ncomw (bor ian cash and kind)-
Conm entional dwellings with eectncity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percenule groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totai urban, and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROLPS
Adjted EnrolmWnt Retiws                                       The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pmar school - o0tal, mak ald femal-Gross total. male and     levels and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
ferale enrollment of all age at the pnmary level as percentages of  Esiared Abslue Povy Incom  Lewd f EC5Sp caa -urban
restive prnmarv school-age populaions. While many countnes    atd rwal-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider prnmary school age to be 6-11 years others do not. The  below which a minimal nutntiorallh adequate diet plus essential
ditTerences in country practcs in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are retlected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Enimated Relative Poemy Inwom  Level fCSS per capear _ban
educaion, gross enrollmnut may exceed 100 percent since some  ad nwal-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prtmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country Urban le%ei ;s
agc                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and fenale-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education rquir  at least four years of approved pn-  Esti-atd Popultio  Briew Absoite Povry Incmew Lee rpe-
mary anstructon; provides  neraL vocationaL or teacher training  centg-r-baw ad rural- Percent of populaton (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence courses are generally xuded.
Vocnoal EwolMei (percnmt of seco      eiyj-Vocatona institu-            Comparative Anlysis and Data Division
tions include technical industraL or other programs which operate     Econonic Analysis and Projections Deparunent
independendy or as deparments of secondary institutions.                              June 1915



A                                                           -.
U- 
P.VolaCriinu  163.0    001k 39)
_w i, qse wiax carn_{1
1ilk.  no               uAloeS lmumuu Cs)                _         ba  of cm at Umdwt Pr.kes (13
L. on .t.m  _ub..)                           I                            c.ULaJa L-
CrGa dmmti. paet JA             311754.6            .      -.4.       5.5     3.4        163    39.0 165.3   1636 16.0  160.0  100.0  100.0
ArrLmlsu,e                     3o .3             3.1     -3.3       M.3     20          S3.9   34.9   42.5   53.4   44.7  46.9  46.9
udu1utsh                       1.4I0            7.9      -3.2      4.4      3.           1.7    9.4   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.7
Uer,&.e La                     4.149            4.9       3.3      *.3      4.1         3.1    3.9   24.2   24.0   39.4  60.0  40.4
Cauuptiem                       It.23H            4.4    -40.7       4.0      2.2         3.4    3.8    9.7   9Le   103.4  98.3  96.6
Cr.. domstic luessemee           1.3 iS.L    -10.0                   2.0      0.7          4.9   11.3    LI   14.7   13.9   1.4  15.7
"rte me some a .1.               1111I            0L.     -11.7      3..4     2.          16.0    L.      3.0    7.4    7.7   L.5   9.5
ber" of         & f.              .43             L .     -12.6      4.1      1.1         9.2    12.3   10.3   22.3   25.2  22.2  21. 
cG.. national mawlug.              S"             24.3    -17.7     22.1    1.67           0.9    4.1    1.3    4.0   -1.0   6.0   7.2
(oil liet us                  C_.1itlm of  1E_n ism Tnd. (S 
la miremu Prison)M    o                               iax
"we         amoeng                 o2                       1.6   13.6  in..    1.6   1A.0    310.0
Puim. f                          Su                         41.      J.5    29.7     31.9    J3.3    24.2
.mfancee                         541                        58.23    4a.5   701&    48.1    44.1    41.6
usbe     .                         S" 33                     16.6   HI6.8  163.    16.6   140.0   160.6
Fe"                              49                         47.4    44.4   233.      14.0    19.      31.0
Pe,treums                        *3                          3.9    11.1   14.2      2.3    19.7    15.1
uachiom   b &egulpmu             EO                         12.6    11.3   2L2       33.9    29.5    JL3
Oth.w                                                      35.7    33.0   27.4    44.3        3.3    33.6
Sa MU XM    M   Wl    2  EW  VAn    EbE
An uns                           m* mimn                    n  axmme  un  ur   urn   n  ur
wP Desflter                                    144.4   244.7     1 ZL.    177.3   20.    214.8   252.7    247.3   2f5.9   331.4   371.2
bth-ue rate. (inso)                             7.061   L W39 14.6021  11.647  15.121   15.2MM     15.47   1J.3     20.040  23.760  24.9500
btp.r  price index                             16.S  1IIL0    103.4   10L9   124.5   146.9   198            175.7   147.7   I36.    lO.5
Zapevt price    .                             144.9   1W.8   16.2   17L.2   1GL7           609L    224.9    263.9   259.9   237.4   225.2
T.w.a et trad  La.                              72.1    43.4     3.4    41.1      7.6    77.0    647          MG    34.4    43.1       3.4
Not      0"uTuw   adog".
UNLUIIIM
Cerreet hevemp                                     5.41    9.5     10.5       11.4    30.7    16L3
Casrron aormptered                                 4.3     7.6       7.7  _     .4 _.3           04
Curme m nplue (. or deticik (-2                   40.9     1.7     * 2.6       3.2    2.23      .1.7
capital s    iere                                  3.1     9.3     13.3       12.4    11.6    13.2
evemi  fling                                      2.4      6.6      *.S        LO      11.4      L5
GM growth rate (2)                               4.2         -16.          4.5         .4
CW per twits  .We ree (2)                        1.5         -3.0          4.0        2.0
I.I 9 _tIA1-
.. e applicable
AA m-rbe  Priee.
&  NW jute. too. ad fisher..
AUA
wy 21. 1985



ANNEX T
-29-                                                            To        6-
MLUM OF PAThZITD. EZXUIRAL CAPITAL A"D DEBT
(uillion U5$. in current prices)
IALANdC oF PAYWNT
Actual                                                    JU.L .ti.
Net exports of goode                              -3,059    -903    -470    -859    -946  -1.650  -1,822  -, 946  -1.623   -1,531   -,1766
Export' of goode                                    344      372      405     490      610      722      711      626      686       822       934
Import aot goods                                -1,403  -1.275    -875  -1.349  -1. 556  -2,372  -2.533  -2.572  -2.309   -2,353   -2,700
Net exporte of service.                                21      - 7      -29     -32      -28        4       15      -70    -112        -33       -U
Workers' rmittancee                                    35       29       60      113      143     210      379      424      628       552       442
Currnt 4ecouut b4lkttm                            -1,003    -88       -412    -71J    -Q VjL  4" ;.  L428  =L59    1-IDIG   -1912   -1 l24
Direct private investment
HLS loans (net)                                       498      497      238      398      420     550      513      508      416       563       575
Crante   grant-like flowe                             382      245      265      394     551      592    54        687      709       697       840
Other capital rlowe (net)                             274       87       17      -39     -16      144      307      255      164       -d2      -146
Change in reserve. (- - increase)                    -151       53      -a1       25    -124      119       24      142    -242       -166       143
International resrvse  (end of period)                266      213      294     269      393      271      249      108      350       516       373
Reservem ae months of isaeot of next year             2.5      2.9      2.6      2.1     2.0      1.3      1.2      0.6      1.8       2.6       1.7
Actual
IF75      nT76     m7      rr78    FY79                       iry0 nU  n82
CROSS DIS3URSDINTS
Totat groa  disbureementt                      519      563      268      435      477      630      562      548     549
Conceseional                                  458       533      244      401      456      600      541     468      453
Bilaceral                                   343       39D      144      262      213     273      287      232      213
IDA                                         112       128       86       85     153      152      170      158      190
Other multilatersl                            3        15       14       51       91     176       84       78       so
Non-conceesional                               60        30       24       35       20       30       21       &       67
Bilaterisl                                   45        16        6        2        3      17        2        7       28
IBRD                                          -         -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -
Other emustilsteral                           -         1        -        -        -       -        1       31       12
Private                                      15        13       38       32       17      13       19       42       26
NET DISBURSEMENTA                                    498       497      238      398     420      580      513      508      476
u3BT OUTSTANDING
Total outstanding and disbursed               1.355    1.797   2,053    2,571  2, 951   3,216   3,615   3.979   4,470
Official                                    1.233    J,689   2,94D    2,436  2. BS   3,067   3.491   3,834   4,317
IBRD                                         55        55       55        55     55       55       55       55       55
IDA                                         255       30D      46        554    707      859   1,027   1.18    1.366
Other                                       923    1,254   1,419    1,827  2,047   2,154   2,409   2,599   2.896
Private                                       122       108      113       135    142      149      124      145      153
Ulndiaburaed debt                             1,019       948   1,016    1,335  1,659   1,719   2,104   2,619   2,773
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service                               31        88       59        69      95       94       91       87     123
Amortization                                   21        66       30        37      57       50       50       40      ;4
Interest                                       10        22       28        32      38       43       42      47       49
IBRD debt service                                 0         2        3         3       4        4        4        4       3
3DA debt service                                  1         2        3         4       4        6        7        8        8
Average interest rate
Official                                      1.8       1.2      1.3       1.2    1.3      1.2      1.6      1.8      1.0
Private                                       2.3       L89      7.2       6.2    6.1       6,9    10.8      5.6      8,6
Average  nturity
Official                                     35.3      42.9    38.6       38.5   36.2    34.2    35.1    35.5    39.5
Privete                                      15.3      11.3    11.0        9.5   14.8    19.2       7.7    11.7    12.9
bIA  GROUP  XIOSURE ( 5)
I8RD DOD/totsl DOD                                4         3        3         2       2        2        2        1       1
IRD disbursements/total dis,urseeents            0         0        0         0       0        0        0        0       0
IB3D debt service/totel dcbt eervice              D         2        6         5       4        4        4       4        3
IDADOD/totli DOD                                 19        21       23        22      24       27       28      30       31
IDA diebursements/total diebursewent             22        23       32        20      32       24       30      29       35
IDA debt serviceltocal debt service               3         3        5         5       5        6        7        9       6
TERN STRUCTURE                                           At June  1 983         IBRD/IDA LENDING (At June 19831)   IIUD        IDA
Maturity structure of debt                                                   Outstanding 4 Diebursed                54.9  1.3b5.8
Matzrities due within 5 years                             15.1             Undiabursed                              -   1I005.0
Katuritiee due witbin 10 vesra                            29.4             Outetanding, incl. Uodisbursed         54.9  2,370.8
Interest atructure of debt
Interest due within I year                                 1.4
- not available
September 27, 1985



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
T'HE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31. 1985)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /h
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 32 credits fully disbursed                       54.90 1,083.55         -
527       1975 Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -       62.00       0.74
542       1975 Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                  -       21.00       3.02
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation               -       18.30       1.58
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                  -       16.00       5.37
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00       6.86
787       1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -       21.00       2.78
825       1978 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II             -       7.00        2.16
828       1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research              -       6.00        0.36
864       1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00       10.83
890       1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -       6.00        2.26
912       1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00       12.61
921       1979 Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -          32.00      12.54
934       1979 Bangladesh  Greater Khulua Power
Distribution                    -      28.00        6.41
941       1979 Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -         22.00        1.90
955       1979 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -      25.00       14.60
964       1979 Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00        5.91
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                     -      1 9.70       2.63
1001       1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -       20.00       9.09
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      29.00       12.11
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation       -       20.00      12.09
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation             -       11.00       5.24
1054       1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -         40.00      22.65
1065/c     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III           -       35.00      14.55
1091/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development          -       85.00       8.79
1096LC     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport               -       25.00      10.65
1117/c     1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II          -       50.00      22.26
1124/c     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV            -       16.00       4.51
1140Lc    1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubevells                      -       18.00       9.52
1147/c     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                -       40.00      11.18
11 84Lc    1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II        -       27.00      20.68
1204LC     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer         -       15.00      12.69



-31-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                            (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower               Purpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -         30.00       25.15
1215/c     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II             -      27.00      18.40
1247/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                     -      60.00       51.17
1254Jc     1982 Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power               -      92.00      78.83
1262Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification               -      40.00       23.84
1287/c     1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubevells II                   -      68.00       51.07
130O0c     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI                  -     110.00        7.58
1301Lc     1983  Bangladesh  First Higiway Project
(Supplemental)                  -       6.00        3.56
1318/c     1983  Bangladesh  Business Management
Education 6 Training            -        7.80       6.76
1321/c     1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III              -      35.00       30.45
1349Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                     -       12.00       9.37
1357/c     1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation         -      28.50       25.47
1384/c     1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                -     100.00       87.75
1396Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II            -       8.10        7.12
1399Lc /d  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                 -       20.00      17.94
1402Lc Le  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -          23.00     19.66
1440Lc /d  1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance          -       25.00      23.59
1455c /Lf  1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research         -       24.50      24.50
1467/c Lt   1984 Bangladesh  Water Developuent Board             -       41.50      41.50
1471/c /d  1984 Bangladesh  Import Prograr XII                   -      140.00      69.86
1477/c L   1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II           -       23.00      23.00
F022/c L&  1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II           -       22.00      22.00
1490Lc /e  1984  Bangladesh  Technical Education                 -       36.00      33.60



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Banyiladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                 US$ Million /b
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1504-0/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP - 725 BD                         -        10.00      8.68
1504-1/c/f 1984  Bangladebh  SAP 1023 BD                          -         5.00      4.76
1504-2/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                          -         7.00      6.64
1504-3/c/f 1984  Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                          -         8.00      7.53
Total                                                       54.90  2, 882.95    998.35
of which repaid                                            -         6.16      -
Total now outstandin2                                       54.90  2,876.79
Amount sold                                                0.00      0.00
Total nov held by Bank and IDA                              54.90  2. 876.79
Total undisbursed                                                    998.35    998.35
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
a  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
/c Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs. Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange in
effect on September 30, 1984, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
Id  Became effective on June 19, 1984.
e  Effective December 20, 1984.
/f Effective October 25, 1984.
La Not yet effective.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
/usrO6/asadd/ceny/PRESREP/annex2/4-19-85
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1985) /a
Fiscal                                                               Amounts in US$ Million
Year           Obligor                Type of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1969    Karnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63      6.23
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20     0.36     1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company                        1.05     1.05
Total gross commitments                                              6.80     2.04      8.84
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales             5.60     0.63      6.23
Total now held by IFC                                                1.20     1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                    0.65      -        0.65
/a  The following IFC investments have been approved but not yet signed:
Date of
Approvaal
9/21/82  Bata Shoe Co.                 Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.             and Tannery                  2.7        .5      3.2
11/13/84 Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                        Capital Market               1.8        .2      2.0



-34-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Six months
Cb)  Agencies preparing the project:
GOB and FAO/CP
Cc) Date of first preparation mission by IDA:
August 1983
Cd) Date of appraisal mission:
November 1984
Ce)  Date of completion of negotiation:
September 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the UNDP Project Document (paragraph 56);
(b) arrangements giving FD adequate control over mangrove
plantations established under the project (paragraph 48);



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) establishment of a Coordinating Cou-ittee to oversee the
allocation of newly accreted land (paragraph 48);
(d) appointment of consultants to prepare architectural
designs for expansion of the Institute of Forestry,
Forest College and Sylhet School (paragraph 52); and
(e) Gover.ment approval of the Project Proforma
(paragraph 53).
Section IV:     Other Conditions would be:
(a) selection of sites for fuelvood plantations based on
the findings of a socioeconomic study would be a
condition of disbursement against expenditures for the
establishment of such plantations (paragraph 49); and
(b) completion of architectural designs satisfactory to
IDA for the expansion of the Institute of Forestry,
the Forest College and the Forest School would be a
condition of disbursement for civil works under the
project (paragraph 52); and
(c) provision to IDA for comment the findings of the
socioeconomic studies for mangrove plantations and
fuelvood plantations and draft management plans for the
industrial plantation program by June 1, 1986 and the
complete management plans for the mangrove and
industrial plantations by December 31, 1986
(paragraph 50).



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR                                                                                     g92
JESSORENGLADS                                                                                                                -     l    ,   a
>  . rtiunvlatwsr                                SECOND RESTRY PROJECT                                             et0Wtd ux% pu
411                                                          t      Nalural mcngrove ereBAR                                           2 L
i ~~~~~~~Nla                                                                             .r-. erovepnlto O' INDAZA   _
,25  _  ; Ct - ,  <'                                        Accreled bnd                                              (   , )OAKH
~~~~~~~~CNS    i? Fre eev (ihntePoetAra 
T  21 ,5,, _    9 y   INDI ^            *   BengbdechForerFlReeecrchInclilule                            ?  \        e URNG MAT
ATKHLR4sr                    I_". FoelColg
I h O I ^ t  D    | |    -9-S----                               _   Urstil boond g il s                                               <                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!  t-.' ?t     ,,i';t _    l  e frt *werz_ ~               --    Inlernelonel boundriec                                             ,,t,
|  .;;  g r > ;2 ^ ii > iT , 'S'=- o lWo HALI
B y  a  angF      (,rSuUx                                           ltl                   _ 
AREA~ ~ ~~~~~~4 IFA                              ua C7tt Ong                                                                                            A  1F



