Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C  /6.3 V
CR /   -5
Report No. 5588-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
October 9, 1985
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture I Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention
currency. The official exchange rate on August 1, 1985 was as shown below:
US$1          =  Taka (Tk) 28.50
Tk 1          =  US$0.0351
Tk 1 million  =  US$35,088
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 square mile       =  640 acres (259 hectares)
1 acre (ac)         =  0.405 hectare (ha)
1 cubic foot (ft3)  =  0.028 cubic meter (m3)
= 0.785 Boppus foot (H ft)
1 maund (md)        =  82.29 pounds (37.34 kg)
1 ton (metric)      =  2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC        Assistant Chief Conservator
ACF        Assistant Conservator of Forests
ADB        Asian Development Bank
ADP        Annual Development Plan
BCIC       Bangladesh Chemical Industries Development Corporation
BFIDC      Bangladesh Forest Industries Corporation
BPRI       Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
CCF        Chief Conse,vator
CF         Conservator of Forests
CPC        Coastal Plantation Circle
DCF        Deputy Chief Conservator
DFO        Divisional Forest Officer
ECNEC      Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FAOICP     Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
FD         Forest Department
GOB        Government of Bangladesh
ICB        International competitive bidding
LCB        Local competitive bidding
MAP        Mangrove Afforestation Project
MLALR      Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform
ODA        Overseas Development Administration
PP         Project Proforma
PSA        Proje   Special Account
PTU        Plantazion Trial Unit
REB        Rural Electrification Board
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
SPARRSO    Space Research and Remote Sensing Organization
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summarv
Borrower:          People's Republic of Bangladesh
Terms:             Standard
Proiect            The primary objective of the proposed project vould be
Description:      to expand and adequately maintain forest areas and thereby
to increase the supply of fuelvood for domestic
consumption; provide protection against cyclones, tidal
bores, and soil erosion; and increase the supply of wood
products for industrial and commercial uses. The proposed
project would continue the program of afforestation of
newly accreted land begun under the Mangrove Afforestation
Project (Credit 1042-BD) and vould support improved
utilization and management of indigenous forests.
Specific project components vould include:
(a) establishment of about 100,000 acres of mangrove
plantations, and maintenance of about 200,000 acres of
existing plantations; (b) establishment of about 58,000
acres of industrial plantations, and maintenance of about
70,000 acres of existing plantations; (c) establishment of
Resource X aagement Systems for mangrove plantations and
other forest resources; (d) support of mangrove
afforestation research; and (e) training of forestry
personnel and improvement and expansion of forestry
education and training facilities.
Proiect Risks:     Heavy sedimentation or erosion and cyclones pose a
possible risk to certain areas and necessitate careful
mangrove plantation site selection. The Forest Department
has gained experience in site selection and land
monitoring and surveying techniques have been improved.
Therefore, the risk, due to erosion and sedimentation is
considered to be small. The risk of loss from cyclones
has been minimized by the distribution of plantations over
a vide area. Theft and illegal grazing could pose a risk
to industrial plantations. To combat this problem, the
project vould provide for the establishment of abort
rotation fuelvood plantations, adjacent to populated
areas, vhich vould provide a local supply of fuelvood and,
thereby, reduce pressures on long rotation plantations.
The selection of sites for short rotation fuelvood
plantations would be based on a socioeconomic study which
would provide an analysis of local fuelvood usage patterns
and information needed by the Forest Department to foster
support among villagers for the development of these
fuelvood plantations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents uay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Proiect Costs:                             L
Local    Foreitu    Total
~US$ million
hangrove Afforestation             7.2       0.8        8.0
Industrial Plantations             9.3       1.5      10.8
Education and Traing               2.3       4.5        6.8
Resource P!anagement Prograemm     0.5       1.0       1.5
Research                           0.3       0.1        0.4
Base Cost                    19.6       7.9      27.5
Physical Contingencies             0.8       0.2       1.0
Price Contingencies                6.6       0.9       7L5
Total Cost                   27.0       9.0      36.0
p  Includes taxes and duties of US$0.36 million.
Financint Plan:
Local    Fore iuc    Total
-US$ million-
IDA                               23.2       4.8      28.0
UNDP                               0.1       4.2       4.3
Government                         3          -        3,7
Total                        27r0       9.0      36.0
ww         - ==
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY            FY86   FY87   FY88   !Y89  FY90   FY91
Annual            3.0     4.0    5.0    6.0    6.0    4.0
Cumulative        3.0     7.0   12.0   18.0   24.0   28.0
Economic Rate
of Return:        20!



-iii--
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paste No.
I.  Introduction  ................... ,...............                         I
II. The Forestry Sector.                                                        2
A. General.                                                                2
B. Forest Areas and Types.                                                2
C. Production, Consumption and Trade.                                     3
D. Forestry Institutions and Industries.                                  3
E. Forestry Education and Training.                                        5
F. Government Plans and Policies.                                         6
G.  External Assistance to Forestry   ..........6  .....    7
B. Constraints to Development ..                                           7
I. Experience vith Past Lending.                                          8
III.  The Proiect Area  ..........................................   10
A.  Physical Features  .................    10
B.  Forestry Activities  ..........          .........................   11
C.  Socio-Economic Features  ........           .......................   13
IV.  The Proiect  ...............................................   15
A.  Project Rationale and Objectives ......................   15
B. Main Features ......................, 15
C.  Detailed Features .....................................   15
Maugrove Afforestation            ..............................   15
Industrial Plantations           ..............................   17
Resource Management System  .......         ...................   19
Mangrove Afforestation Research  ......... ............   20
Forestry Education and Training  ......... ............   20
V.  Proiect Cost and Financini   ..........         ......................   22
A.  Cost Estimates            .      ..       .......................   22
E.  Financing   ............................................    23
C.  Procurement and Disbursement ...........................   24



-             ~~~~-i-
Paste No.
VI. Or2anization and Managuement  ...............................    27
A.  Project Implementation  ...............        .................  27
B. Control Over Newly Accreted Land and
Land Use Coordination  ............ ..      .................   28
C. Accounts and Audit  .......        .............................    29
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation   .........................  29
VII. Production. Markets and Prices  ............................  30
A. Yields and Production  ......        ...........................   30
B. Markets          ...............................................   31
C.  Prices  ................................................        32
D.  Financial Analysis  .......       .............................   33
VIII.  Benefits, Economic Justification and Risks  ............     ...    34
A.  Benefits  ...        ...........................................   34
B.  Economic Analysis .....................................  36
C.  Project Risks  .... ........Go   ...................            36
IX.  Recommendations and Assurances  ........... ..       ...............  37
List of Tables in Main Text
Table 3.01.  Major Classification of Forest Estate
Table 4.01.  Mangrove Plantations - Annual Planting Target
Table 4.02.  Industrial Plantations - Annual Plantation Program
Table 5.01.  Project Cost Summary
Table 5.02.  Proposed Financing Plan
Table 5.03.  Procurement Arrangements
Table 7.01.  Stumpage Prices for Financial Analysis
Table 7.02.  Auction Price for Sawlogs
Table 8.01.  Economic Rates of Return
List of Annexes
Annex 1. Project Costs and Disbursement
Annex 2. Plantation Establishment and Maintenance Progran
Annex 3.  Incremental Staff
Annex 4. Yield and Production
Annex 5.  Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 6.  Organization and Implementation Charts
Annex 7.  Documents in Project File
List of Mans
IBRD Map No. 18926



BASGIADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. Introduction
1.01    This report appraises a project in Bangladesh forestry sector.  The
project conforms with the Government's development strategy which promotes
efficient forestry management by expanding the resource base through affores-
tation and by maximizing production of forest produce from the existing
growing stock of forests to meet the country's growing demand for fuelwood
and wood products. In keeping with the survey of the forestry sector carried
out by PAO/CP in 1983, a forestry project was prepared by the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) with assistance from FAO/CP. / The project focused on
improvement in the utilization and management of existing natural forests and
plantations in Sylhet and Chittagong Hill tracts, expansion of mangrove
afforestation in the Bay of Bengal, and improvement in the forestry education
and training facilities at professional and technical levels. In addition, a
proposal for improving logging and extraction facilities of Bangladesh Forest
Industries Corporation (BFIDC) was included. Subsequently, GOB requested IDA
assistance to fund the project and an IDA appraisal mission visited
Bangladesh in November/December 1984. 2/
1.02    During appraisal, the mission found that additional engineering
studies were required for the appraisal of the logging and extraction com-
ponent. The mission also had serious concern over the security situation in
the Chittagong Hill tracts at the time of its visit.  Therefore, it was
agreed with GOB that the logging and extraction component would be treated as
an independent development acheme for future assistance. Further, the mis-
sion, at GOB's request, replaced the initially proposed plantation component
for Chittagong Hill tracts (27,000 ac) with a plantation program for
Chittagong and Cox's Bazar (45,500 ac) districts where resources are -loser
to consumption centers and socio-economic conditions are more favorable for
resource development. 2J
1.03    GOB places high priority on the proposed project and continued IDA
support would complement the ongoing Mangrove Afforestation Project (Credit
1042-BD), expected to be completed by December 1985. The proposed prroject
jj FAOICP Preparation Report No. 45/84 CP-BGD 38 of April 5, 1984.
ai The mission consisted of Messrs. K. Loganathan, 0. Baykal, M. Brown,
N. Crawford (IDA), A. Lafond and Ms. A Molnar (consultants).
2/ "Districts" in this report refer to former administrative districts,
vhich have now been subdivided.



-2-
would allow GOB to maintain the momentum already gained under Credit 1042-BD
for dealing with key forestry sectoral priorities: resource base expansion,
and institutional strengthening for resource management, research, and
forestry education and training.
II. The Forestry Sector
A. General
2.01    About 17% of the total area, or 24Z of actual land area, is under
forest, a large proportion of which is presently inaccessible. At current
level of production, there is scarcity in the availability of fuelwood and
wood products, leading to increased use of cattle dung and other agricultural
by-products as fuel and impairing the growth of wood-based industries, many
of which operate at below 50% of their full capacity.
2.02    The forestry sector currently accounts for only about 3% of the
nation's GDP but this measure does not in itself reflect the true importance
of the sector in Bangladesh. Fuelvood is an essential source of the
country's energy needs, whilst sawnvood, poles and bamboo are of vital impor-
tance in house construction and for a wide range of necessities from furni-
ture to farm implements. In the case of Bangladesh, forests also have an
important role in protecting watersheds and irrigation structures, in
reclaiming land from the sea and im protection of coastal areas and the
environment in general.
B. Forest Areas and Types
2.03    An area of 5.4 M ac is classified as forest, of which 2.3 M ac (43%)
is natural forest and 0.5 H ac (10%) is plantations, both under the control
of the Forest Department (FD). A further 2.6 H ac (47%), is Unclassed State
Forest under the responsibility of the District Administration. In addition
to these recognized forest areas, tree-covered areas around homesteads and
villages (estimated at around 0.7 M ac) are of major importance in supplying
the rural population's wood requirements.
2.04    The natural forests under FD's control consist of 1.2 M ac of hill
forests and the Sundarban mangrove forest covering 1 H ac and 0.1 H ac of sal
forest. All these areas are classified as reserved or protected forests.
The hill forests are located in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, Chittagong, Cox's
Bazar and Sylhet Districts. In most instances, the forests have been damaged
by shifting cultivation and illegal felling. A number of commercially impor-
tant species are found in the forests, including gurjan (Dipterocarpus spp)
and civit (Svintonia floribunda). Also several species of bamboos, including
muli (Helocanna bambusoides), of commercial importance are found in the
forests. Sundarban forest in the southwest of the delta consists of mangrove
species, including sundri (Heritiera minor), gewa (Excoecaria a2allocha),
baen (Avicennia officinalis), and keora (Sonneratia apetala). The sal
forest (Shorea robusta) is located in the Dhaka and Mymensingh Forest Divi-
sions. As a result of the high population pressure and the disruption caused
by the Liberation war in 1971, a large part of the area has been damaged,
illicitly felled and encroached.



-3-
2.05    Plantations are largely confined to the hills, with the traditional
long rotation species such as Teak and recently introduced short-rotation
species (Gemelina arborea, Albizia falcataria and Anthocephalus cadamba) to
supply the pulp and paper industry. About 395,000 ac of these plantations,
commonly called industrial plantations, are under the management of FD. A
more unique form of plantation management in recent years has been the estab-
lishment of mangrove plantations on new areas of sediments in the Delta Zone.
About 155,000 ac of mangrove plantations are under the management of FD.
2.06    The Unclassed State Forests primarily in the Chittagong Hill Tracts
have been subjected to shifting cultivation and consequently, these areas are
either completely treeless or consist of scrub and degraded forest.
C. Production. Consumption and Trade
2.07    Total wood production is at present estimated at 330 M ft3, of which
about 61% is used as fuelvood, 35X for sawn timber and the balance (4%) for
all other uses including poles and pulpwood. Of the total wood production
only about 56 M ft , about one sixth, is recorded production, ie, coming from
operations under the control of FD. The balance is derived partly from tree
covered areas around honesteads and villages and illicit fellings from
government forests. Government receipts from the sector, mainly through
royalties collected by FD, have increased over the last ten years and are
projected to be around Tk 300 M in 1982/83, corresponding to 1Z of total
government receipts.
2.08    The present per capita consumption of wood, estimated at 3.5 ft3, is
amng the lowest in the world. With population projected to increase to
around 140 M by year 2000, per capita wood cc-isumption is likely to further
decline unless plantation prggrams are expanded. Assuming increased per
ca3ita consumption of 3.9 ft3, the demand in year 2000 would be around 322 M
ft of fuelwood and 222 M ft3 of timber including poles and pulpwood. In
contrast, the maximum probable supply proje5tion, based on projected 3annual
allowable cut would only be around 125 M ft of fuelvood and 44 M ft of
tiwaber. Because of this demand gap, there is a critical need to expand new
plantings and improve management of forest resources.
2.09    Trade in wood and wood products is of minor importance.  Export,
principally newsprint, in the last four year' has ranged between Tk 110 and
Tk 244 M. Imports over the same period, part.^ularly of kraft paper and
paperboard have ranged from Tk 158 to Tk 332 M.
D. Forestry Institutions and Industries
2.10    The Forest Department is within a division of the Ministry of
Agricultuxre. It is headed by a Chief Conservator (CCF), assisted by three
Deputy Chief Conservators (DCF)J five Assistant Chief Conservators (ACC) and
a Conservator of Forests (CF) at headquarters.  The DCFs are r aponsible for
development planning, management planning and forest extensionu and the ACCs
and CF for general administration and wildlife. There are six circles,
headed by conservators and coming under the direction of the CCF. Each



-4-
conservator is responsible for a number of forest divisions, which are nor-
mally equivalent to an administrative district, and under the charge of a
Divisional Forest Officer (DFO). There are 31 such divisions including one
covering the National Botanical Garden. Depending on the size of a division,
the DFOs are assisted by one or more Assistant Conservators of Forests (ACF).
Within each division there are usually several forest ranges under the con-
trol of Forest Range Officers, who in turn supervise beats controlled by
Deputy Rangers or Foresters. An organization chart of the Department is
presented in Annex 6 Chart 1.
2.11    The present organizational structure is based upon a personalized
custodial approach, where at the divisional level, the range and beat
officers are required to solve any and all forestry-related problems in their
respective domains. The field staff is responsible for the establishment
and maintenance of multi-species plantations, supervision of state forest
lands, provision of industrial wood supplies, and extension and public rela-
tions.
2.12    As of December 1983, the total number of established posts in the
Department for professional, and technical staff was 4,507 of which 4,325
were filled. Total permanent staff, including vocational workers,
administrative, clerical and other support staff exceeded 11,000. In addi-
tion, the Department employs a labor force of 500,000 in forestry operations.
Numerically, the staffing of FD is adequate, but upgrading is required in
their level of training. This deficiency is mainly due to a break in the
supply of professional officers, who before independence in 1971 were trained
in West Pakistan. Details of present staffing position against sanctioned
posts and the number of staff who require training is in Project File, Item
2.
2.13    In 1960 the government-owned Bangladesh Forest Industries Development
Corporation (BFIDC) was formed to initiate the use of mechanized extraction
methods in inaccessible bill forest areas in the Chittagong Hill Tracts, and
to develop wood processing industries. In 1972, BFIDC's responsibilities
for the development of paper and board industries was transferred to a Paper
and Board Corporation which in 1976, became the Paper and Board section of
the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), also government-owned.
Shortage of qualified staff and equipment are a major constraint to BFIDC's
efficient operations. Despite this constraint, the Corporation has reported
profits in the last three years ranging from Tk 10.7 M in 1980/81 to
Tk 32.6 N in 1982/83.
2.14    Forest Industries in Bangladesh consist of 4 pulp and paper mills,
13 board mills, 2 timber treatment plants, 22 match factories, and 1,634
sawmills. Of these pulp and paper mills, one hardboard mill, one particle
board mill, and four match factories are operated by BCIC, whilst one large
scale sawmill, two timber treatment plants, one particle board plant, one
hardboard mill and one plywood mill are operated by BFIDC. The remaining 8
board mills, 18 match factories, and 1,632 sawmills are operated by the
private sector. Private contractors with small capital are involved in
manual logging operations, but confined to more accessible areas and to the
vicinity of permanent transportation ways. The forest industries sector is



-5-
characterized by a shortage of raw material in relation to the installed
manufacturing capacity. In addition, forest industries face a number of
problems due to inferior technical equipment and lack of trained personnel.
2.15    The Bangladesh Forest Research Institute (BFRI) at Chittagong was
formed in 1968 by enlarging the already existing Forest Research Laboratory.
Total staff of BFRI is 690, including 176 professional and 181 technical
level staff. BFRI has 17 field research stations. Until recently BFRI,
headed by a full-time Director, operated as a unit of FD but is now an inde-
pendent organization under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. Applied
research in mangrove afforestation is the responsibility of FD, conducted
through a Plantation Trial Unit (PTU) established under the Mangrove Affores-
tation Project. Effective FY 1986, GOB proposes transferring the PTU to
BFRI. BFRI appears to be making better progress than in the past when expan-
sion of activities and a large increase in staff numbers meant that its
management was to be concerned as much with institution building as with
carrying out research activities. Its research program has improved recently
and is beginning to address national problems. BFRI is currently being
assisted by UNDP/FAO and would also receive funds for forestry research under
a contract research scheme, administered by the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council (BARC) and funded under the IDA financed Second Agricultural
Research Project (Credit 1455-BD).
2.16    The Bangladesh Space Research and Remote Sensing Orfanization (SPAR-
RSO) has been responsible in recent years for taking aerial photography over
large areas of the country. It has also acquired landsat imagery prints and
computer tapes for the whole country on a periodic basis. Of particular
interest is SPARRSO's production of maps of the coastal areas using this
imagery and detailing land accretion and established mangrove plantation
areas under the Mangrove Afforestation Project.
E. Forestry Education and Training
2.17    The Institute of Forestry, University of Chittagong, is responsible
for training of professional foresters. FD is responsible for training of
Forest Guards, Foresters, and Rangers. Forestry education, in general suf-
fers from a lack of well motivated and experienced teaching staff. Moreover,
budgetary constraints are reflected in a general absence of teaching aids,
equipment and books and other facilities. As of December 31, 1983, about 70%
of FD's professional and technical staff did not have formal training in
forestry.
2.18    University Education.  The Institute of Forestry was established in
1977 within the Faculty of Science of the University of Chittagong. The
Institute offers a four-year program leading to a BSc (Hons) degree in
forestry. Four students who would be eligible for recruitment by FD as ACFS,
graduated from the Institute in 1984. The teaching facilities are not up
to the standard for full forestry degree training, primarily due to inade-
quate funding from the University. The University is dependent on funds
allocated by the Ministry of Education through the University Grant Commis-
sion. Available funds are shared among the various faculties of the Univer-
sity and funds received by the Institute are provided from allocations to the



-6-
Faculty of Science. In order to ensure budgetary independence under the
project, GOB has stated that the Institute of Forestry will receive funds for
annual operating expenses directly through the University Grant Commission.
2.19    Forest Ranter Trainins.  The Bangladesh Forest College was estab-
lished adjacent to BFRI in Chittagong. The College trains Forest Rangers,
through a two-year course leading to a BSc (Pass) degree in forestry. Mini-
mum entry qualification is a BSc (Pass) degree in Natural Science. Despite a
six year university level training, Rangers are considered a sub-professional
cadre. A major expansion program for the College is currently underway.
Hostel accommodation has been expanded, and by the end of 1985 there will be
accommodation for 60 trainees. New teaching buildings are also under con-
struction, but teaching aids and equipments are inadequate.
2.20    Forester and Forest Guard Traininz.  The Bangladesh Forest School was
established at Sylbet in 1948. At present it provides a 12 months course for
Foresters leading to a Certificate in Forestry. Minimum entry qualification
is also Higher Secondary School certificate. The School also offers a three
months training for Forest Guards. The School facilities have recently been
expanded under the Mangrove Afforestation project. Accommodation is now
sufficient for 100 students, 30 Forest Guards, and 70 Foresters. There is,
however, a lack of laboratory and drafting facilities.
F. Government Plans and Policies
2.21    The 1983 survey of the forestry sector (para 1.01) identified the
major requirements of the sector as follows:
(a) improved utilization and management of the indigenous forests to
support major industries;
(b) an accelerated plantation program to provide additional raw material
for industry and to supply domestic requirements for fuelvood and
small timbers, both on State and private land; and
(c) the development of coastal plantations for the consolidation of
sediment formations and for protection against cyclones and tidal
action.
2.22    The present forest policy of the country, reflecting the above,
covers all required fields of forest development. In addition the Third Five
Year Plan (1985/86 - 1989/90), which is expected to be finalized by end June
1985, specifies the following forestry objectives for the plan period:
(a) maximization of production of forest produce from the existing grow-
ing stocks of forests;
(b) development of forest reseurces in the Government and private homes-
tead forests as quickly as possible;



-7-
(c) provision of protection against cyclone, tidal bore and soil erosion;
snd
(d) development of outdoor recreation.
The current programs of FD are in line with these policy directives, but the
programs can only be sustained with considerable external financing.
G. External Assistance to Forestrv
2.23    At present there are six donor-assisted forestry related projects
underway in Bangladesh. The IDA-assisted Mangrove Afforestation Project
(Credit 1042-BD) provides for the afforestation of newly formed land in the
delta areas. The project is an expansion of work initiated by FD, primarily
for the protection of the Coastal Zone. The receutly approved Second
Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1455-BD), assisted by ID&, provides
support to BFRI's research activities. The Community Forestry Project,
assisted by ADB, is for the development of plantations on conmmnal and
private land for the production of fuelvood and small timber in seven western
districts of the country. A follow-up project covering the remaining dis-
tricts is under preparation by ADB. A forestry component of an integrated
rural development project, assisted by ADB, provides for reforestation ia
Chittagong Hill Tracts. In addition UUDP and FAO are supporting FD in com-
pleting an inventory of natural forests and plantations, and ODA is assisting
PD in carrying out an inventory of Sundarbans mangrove forest. Finally, SIDM
offers assistance for development of pulpwood plantations to supply the
Karnaphuli Pulp and Paper Hill.
R. Constraints to Development
2.24    The greatest single constraint to forestry development in Bangladesh
is land availability in the face of population pressure. Easily accessible
forests have been depleted under uncontrolled felling either for fuelvood or
for agricultural land. The remaining forests are largely confined to areas
where remoteness, lack of security, difficulty of farming--due to infertility
of soils, salinity, or flooding-have deterred would be colonizers.
Similarly past plantation activities have also been limited mainly to remote
areas such as the Chittagong Hill Tracts or to coastal areas of nevly
accreted land as in the Mangrove Afforestation Program. Plantation in the
Chittagong Hill Tracts avoids the problems associated with population pres-
sure (population density being only about IOZ of lowland areas), but its very
remoteness, the lack of roads and other infrastructure, and the recently
aggravated problems of security restrict the rate of development.
2.25    The next major constraint is lack of finance.  Restricted current
budget allocations keep salaries at low levels and allow only modest expendi-
ture on essential infrastructure such as staff housing and on operating and
maintenance costs. Also, under the Second Five Year Plan (1979180 - 1984/85)
development budget allocations have been sufficient only for a modest scale
of development, although this is now being changed under the proposed Third
Five Year Plan (para 2.22)



2.26    Present training facilities are inadequate both as regards accommoda-
tion and equipment. Whilst the numbers of technical staff in FD appear to be
sufficient for a development-oriented program, a considerable amount of
in-service training will be required in addition to normal basic training.
This will call for major investment in the improvement of training
facilities. Provision of teachers is also a major problem despite assistance
in their training provided both by SIDA and UNDP. At the existing government
salary scale, recruitment of teaching staff of sufficient calibre presents a
real difficulty, particularly where the facility is remote from main popula-
tion centers.
2.27   Finally, forestry development is also constrained by lack of informa-
tion_-most significantly up-to-date information which can be used as the
basis for resource management. For the major forest areas in the country,
inventory of hill forests is underway and should be completed by mid 1985.
With the large scale planting of delta areas, it has also become necessary to
develop a proper management plan (sometimes called working plan) for the
mangrove plantations. The need for such a comprehensive management plan was
not envisaged under the Mangrove Afforestation Project. More intensive
research is required in order to find answers to particular problems such as
choice of matching species to site conditions. In other cases the type of
information required includes peoples' attitude to the improvement of forest
areas where illicit felling is a major problem. In this case socio-economic
study would be required as a prerequisite to selection of sites for planting
and development of management plans.
2.28    The proposed project would address these problems.
I. Experience with Past Lending
2.29    The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture.
Since independence in 1971 until June 1984, IDA has supported agricultural
development in Bangladesh with 28 credits for projects in the agricultural
sector. Total lending for agriculture, irrigation and rural development over
the period amounted to about 24% of total IDA lending to Bangladesh. This is
consistent with the country s needs and the Government's priorities to
increase food production and improve agricultural support services. Par-
ticular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that provide agricultural
inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport, irrigation, improved
seeds, extension, research, credit and storage facilities. Lending in the
field of education has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational
training. Recently, IDA has recognized that there is a need to look beyond
the immediate objective of foodgrain self-sufficiency and to develop a
medium-term strategy for agriculture as a whole, which would focus on diver-
sification, and on fisheries, livestock and forestry sub-sectors. Bangladesh
also faces critical shortages in traditional fuels (agricultural by-products
and wastes, fuelvood, etc.), the supply of which has failed to keep pace with
rapidly rising demand. The Joint UNDP/IWorld Bank Energy Sector Assessment



-9-
Report jj points out that there is considerable scope for improving this
situation. The Mangrove Afforestation Project, approved in 1980, began IDA's
involvement in forestry, primarily for the production of fuelvood, and the
proposed project would continue to support the sub-sector.
2.30    The Mangrove Afforestation Proiect (Credit 1042-BD of June 1980) was
financed with a Credit of US$11 M to enable FD to expand its afforestation
program. The project provided for the establishment of 100,000 ac of
mangrove plantations and management of some 80,000 ac of existing planta-
tions. The project also established PTU for applied research and initiated a
program to monitor plantation establishment, land accretion and erosion
through aerial photography and remote sensing. Funds were also provided for
staff salaries, staff quarters, transport facilities, strengthening forestry
training institutions, and for a public information and communications
program.
2.31    Overall project performance is satisfactory.  About 75,000 ac of
plantations have been established and the project target should be completed
by December 1985. Procurement is comp'eted and the final phase o' civil
works program is underway. While some measures have been taken, silvicul-
tural treatment of existing plantations have not been effective, as PTU could
not develop a satisfactory thinning methodology. Also, the public informa-
tion and comunnications program is not operational, as FD has not been able
to develop suitable publicity material. Overall project implementation by
the Coastal Plantation Circle (CPC) is satisfactory. With the experience
gained and organization in place CPC is in a position to undertake a further
expansion of the plantation program, provided CPC is relieved of its respon-
sibility for the management of Sundarban natural mangrove forests. All major
Credit covenants, except for audit covenants, have been met; audit of project
accounts for FY 1984 is in progress and is expected to be completed by Sep-
tember 1985. At Credit closing in December 1985, it is estimated that there
would be a saving of US$4 M in the Credit amount due to substantial deprecia-
tion of the local currency during the project period. However, the decision
has been made to extend the project for six months to June 1986 to provide
for the rehabilitation of young plantations damaged by the May 1985 cyclone.
The following important technical lessons learned from the project have been
taken into consideration in designing the proposed project, which would also
address shortcomings mentioned above in the ongoing project.
(a) for nev plantations "beating up" V/ operations are necessary when
seedlings are washed away by wave action during the first two to
three years; furthermore, it is important to remove climbers since
they retard growth and eventually destroy sta4ds if not removed
during the fifth to eighth years of growth and special attention
AJ Bangladesh: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (Report of the Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program), IBRD Report No. 3873-BD,
October 1982.
g/ Filling-in of vacancies.



-10-
needs to be given to removing fallen trees which, when carried by
tide damage plantations;
(b) a fixed rotation period (presently assumed as 18-20 years) for
mangroves is unsatisfactory since growth is rapid up to 8-10 years
and stops thereafter, particularly due to changes in site conditions
resulting from transformation of accreted soil from low to high char;
(c) a reasonable spacing for plantations should be 5' x 5- instead of
4' x 4'; the former would reduce establisbment cost and avoid
unnecessary thinning; and
(d) coordination among land use agencies in the coastal areas should be
established to prevent allocation of some mangrove areas for use in
other activities before the plantations are mature.
III. The Proiect Area
3.01    The project would include three separate areas:
(a) the four coastal forestry divisions of Barisal, Chittagong, Noakhali
and Patuakhali;
(b) the Sylhet forestry division in the northeast; and
Cc) the Chittagong and Cox's Bazar forestry divisions in the southeast.
The project area is shown on IBRD Map 18926.
A. Physical Features
3.02    Climate.  The overall climatic pattern is influenced mainly by the
southwest monsoon which brings heavy rain from May to October, peaking in
June and July. The remaining months are usually dry with many coastal loca-
tions having as little as two inches of rainfall from November to March.
Mean annual rainfall varies from 60 inches in the west to 146 inches in the
east at Cox's Bazar and 180 inches in Sylhet. Cyclones are frequent, par-
ticularly along the coastal plains, mainly in October-December with a secon-
dary season in May. Many of these cause severe damage with winds sometimes
reaching over 100 miles per hour and storm surges with heights from 10 -o 30
ft. Temperatures vary from absolute maxima of around 110°F to minima of
around 35°F according to season, latitude, and elevation. Relative humidity
is generally over 80%.
Geology and Topographv
3.03    The coastal areas are highly indented with many islands in the chan-
nels and along the coastline. Sediment is continually being deposited vithin



-ll-
the channels and along the coast to form char lands. 1/ The char lands can be
divided into three categories: the low chars, which are subject to daily
flooding; the high chars which are subject to periodic flooding; and, lands
which can be bunded to prevent flooding.
3.04    The geological features of the Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox's Bazar
forest division areas are mainly sedimentary rocks with a succession of
anticlines and synclines running in a northwest-southeast axis forming the
hill country. Highly weatherable, shallow and erodable sandstones together
with shales are located on the higher and steeper sections. The topography
is generally steep and broken.
B. Forestry Activities
Mangrove Afforestation
3.05    In order to better protect life in coastal areas from cyclones and
tidal surges, FD began, in 1966, a program of planting mangroves outside the
protective coastal embankments developed by the Bangladesh Water Development
Board. It planted about 80,000 acres before the commencement of the Mangrove
Afforestation Project (Credit 1042-BD). As the coastal afforestation program
proceeded, it became apparent that the plantations contributed to the
acceleration of the land accretion process and to the stabilization of the
char lands, with the ultimate potential of providing land for agricultural
purposes. Measurable benefits from the plantations include production of
timber for fuelwood and industrial use and creation of income and employment
opportunities in remote rural areas.
3.06    A government notification dated August 13, 1976 provides for FD
control over newly accreted land for a period of ten years under an agreement
between the Ministry of Land Administration and Land Reform (HLALR) and the
Ministry of Agriculture. The agreement requires survey of the newly accreted
land by fLALR prior to planting.  FD has so far established 155,000 acres of
plantations, wbich are in different stages of maturity. Given the minimum
rotation period of 10 years for mangroves (para 2.31), this present arrange-
ment, which will expire in 1986, requires revision and extension to give FD
control over the land until the plantations mature. There is an established
procedure among government agencies for the release of land by FD, but coor-
dination is lacking (para 2.31). The present arrangement requires FD to turn
over the harvested land to MLALR for distribution to landless and other
farmers for agricultural use or shrimp farming. While the system may be open
to abuse by local officials, it is as equitable as any other alternative and
relatively simple to implement.
.AJ Newly accreted unstabilized land formed by the deposition of river sedi-
ments.



-12-
Industrial Plantations
3.07    Plantation activity which was confined to Chittagong Hill Tracts was
extended to Chittagong, Coxws Bazar, and Sylhet forest divisions in 1921.
The management system involves artificial regeneration of natural forests,
following clear felling of logged areas. Logging is by private contractors.
Teak was virtually the only species planted until 1950. Other species sub-
sequently introduced included sal (shorea robusta), garjan (Dipterocarnus
turbinatus), jarul (Laferstroemia speciosa), chaplash (Artocargus chaplasha),
chation (Alstoria scholasis), toon (Cedrela toona), and dkakyam (SyzvRium
2uardis). Fast growing species such as Gemelina arborea, Albizia falcataria
and Anthocephalus cadamba were introduced in 1976 for production of pulpwood.
3.08    The total area of the forest estate in the project area and its major
classifications are given in Table 3.01.
Table 3.01:  Major Classification of Forest Estate (Acres)
District             Barren Hills      Plantations      Hixh Forest       Total
Chittagong             133,000           80,000           87,000        300,000
Cox's Bazar               -              70,000           66,000         136,000
Sylhet                    -36.000                         79.000        115,000
133,000          186,000         232,000         551,000
The preliminary results of the ongoing inventory carried out by FAO/UNDP
project indicates that about 30% of the plantations in the Chittagong and
Coxs Bazar have failed and those in half the remaining area have no commer-
cial value either due to poor growth or low stocking. This situation also
exists in the plantations in Sylhet. The main reasons seem to be one or more
of the following:
- poor quality of planting stock;
- lack of post-establishment maintenance, mainly because of
budgetary constraints;
- unsuitable sites or incompatible species mixtures;
- heavy incidence of diseases and pests in some locations; and
- illegal removal of stems in some older plantations.
3.09    Given the above circumstances the present plantations appear likely
to produce yields well below the capability of the site. The average stand-
ing volume at age 35 for mixed hardwood/teak plantations is only 2,400 ft3/ac
an3 2,750 ft /ac at age 50% declining thereafter.  This compares with 7,500
ft at age 35 and 8,500 ft /ac at age 50 expected from sites with good
quality teak stands. The plantations of teak and local mixed hardwoods are
supposed to be thinned every five years commencing at age 5 and extending
through age 25. In practice, however, due to lack of funds usually only the



-13-
first uncommercial mechanical thinning is carried out, and sometimes even
this is neglected.
3.10    Another major problem is outdated forest management plans.  Working
plans, prepared about 25 years ago, are no more valid. Current operations
are carried out in accordance with an ad hoc "revised working plan", which
neither takes into account the changes in resource nor addresses changes in
national requirements. Acknowledging this difficulty, GOB secured FAO/UNDP
assistance to initiate an inventory of hill forests. Inventory of Chittagong
and Cox's Bazar forest divisions are almost complete and are in sufficient
detail to provide the necessary data base for a new working plan. Inventory
for Sylhet forest division remains to be designed.
C. Socio-Economic Features
3.11    The population of the project area is predominantly Moslem with a
small, evenly distributed Hindu population comprising about 5% of the total.
The only significant tribal population is confined to a small number of
forest villages. These tribals live on lands allocated to them by FD. They
are given full use of the land in exchange for providing labor to FD. The
villagers are paid for all labor they provide, except for a set number of
days for patrol duty assisting forest staff and for work on stretches of FD
road near the village. There is no negative impact from FD activities on
these tribal villagers. In fact, extension of FD plantation program will
provide greater employment opportunities for tribals.
3.12    As in the rest of the country, population pressure on all land is
very acute, and land distribution is quite skewed. Almost 20% of the total
rural families have neither land nor homestead, 10% have only homestead but
no land, and 20% have land holding of less than one acre. Local community
pressures on government land identified for industrial plantations vary
considerably depending on land availability and traditional usage patterns.
Pressures are most acute on forest land near human settlement as villagers
compete with plantations for grazing area, land for crops, thatch grass and
bamboo production. Villagers generally prefer heavy forests to begin at some
distance from their fields, as thick forest attracts wild animals that feed
on and destroy local crops, requiring watchers throughout the growing season.
Establishment of new plantations on forest areas has an important impact on
local communities, particularly when degraded forest blocks near village
settlements are planted with trees. Unless the potential for farmer coopera-
tion is established for an identified patch of denuded forest, there is no
guarantee that the area can be protected. FD's working plans for plantation
programs are, however, based only on technical aspects of plantation
activities, with no consideration for the attitude of local communities.
Given that usage pattern are area specific, rather than conforming to a set
pattern, a socio-economic study would be required to be carried out to iden-
tify which areas would be more acceptable sites for new plantations, thereby
encouraging local cooperation and ensuring protection (para 4.14). The
output from the study would be information on the use of denuded forest by
local communities that could be used in preparing working plans.



-14-
3.13    In the mangrove areas a major difficulty is that villagers do not
appreciate the value of mangroves for stabilizing the land and increasing
its agricultural potential. Villagers feel that the lands under mangrove
should have been allocated immediately for agriculture and grazing. There is
clearly a need for improvement of the public information and communications
program initiated under MAP.
3.14    A recently expanding occupation in the mangrove area is shrimp fa-
ing. Land suitable for shrimp cultivatinn must be fairly stable for con-
struction of ponds/embankments. If properly done, shrimp farming does not
conflict with use of land for mangroves, as the land does not become suitable
for shrimp farming until the mangroves are ready for harvest. However, the
potential conflict between shrimp farming and mangrove afforestation is based
on the lack of coordination between the different land use agencies in
Bangladesh. The government has put a strong emphasis on the encouragement of
investment in shrimp farming and the number of private individuals seeking
the sanction of the government for the allocation of land to shrimp farming
is increasing. The process of land allocation is outside the purview of FD
and controlled by the Fisheries and Livestock Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture and MLALR. There is therefore a potential danger that without
proper coordination land presently under mangroves may be allocated to poten-
tial shrimp farmers by another land use agency, thus losing the returns on FD
investment (para 6.07).
3.15    Private treestands on homestead land are very extensive throughout
the project area except in the mangrove plantation areas of Barisal division.
In areas more dis;tant from the forest, these stands provide a large propor-
tion of the fuelvood and small timber consumed by farmers.  A national inven-
tory of private t:ree ownership and volume carried out in 1980 has shown that
although farmers are consciously managing these stands on a long-term stock-
ing plan, these are being overcut.
3.16    A monthly permit system for the collection of daily headloads for
family consumption operates in the hill forest area. This is an important
source of fuel for poor and landless families and the collection and sales of
some headloads provide an important additional source of income to poor and
landless families, particularly in the agricultural off-season when laborers
can be unemployed for up to 15 days per month. The pattern of fuel consump-
tion is somewhat different in the mangrove areas, where the traditional lack
of firewood led to the development of a pattern of dependence on and, to some
extent, a preference for cow dung and agricultural residue as fuel. Fuelwood
from mangrove plantations is auctioned by FD, but this is purchased
exclusively by traders for urban markets, who are able to afford the high
transport costs. FD proposes allowing villagers to clear the twigs and
branches left lying on the ground after thinning and harvesting operations
have been completed. Properly supervised, this operation would both benefit
FD and create more positive relations with surrounding communities.



-15-
IV. The Project
A. Proiect Rationale and Obiective
4.01    The Government's primary goals for the development of the forestry
sector are to: expand and maintain forest areas; meet domestic requirements
for fuelwood; provide protection against cyclones, tidal bore, and soil
erosion; and provide additional raw material for industry. The present
forestry program, supported by external assistance, reflects these goals,
particularly in the afforestation of newly accreted lands in the delta areas
of the country and in the utilization of idle land for the development of
fuelwood plantations. Forestry development is, however, constrained by lack
of up-to-date inventories, absence of resource management system, applied
research, and a shortage of trained manpower. The proposed project would
complement ongoing IDA and ADB projects by continuing the program of affores-
tation of newly accreted land under Credit 1042-BD and by providing for
improved utilization and management of indigenous forests. The project would
also strengthen forestry educational, training and research institutions
which would improve the capability of FD to carry out its ongoing and
expanded programs.
B. Main Features
4.02    The project would cover a five-year period, from FY86 to FY90.  The
project's principal aim would be to increase the supply of forest products by
improving the productivity of publicly held natural forests and expanding the
existing plantation programs. This would be met through the following major
activities:
(a) establishment of about 100,000 acres of mangrove plantations, and
maintenance of about 200,000 acres of existine plantations;
(b) establishment of about 58,000 ac of industrial plantations, and
maintenance of about 70,000 ac of existing plantations;
(c) development of management capability by providing technical assis-
tance to establish Resource Management Systems for mangrove planta-
tions and for forest resources in three districts;
(d) improvement of facilities for mangrove afforestation research; and
(e) development of institutional capability by improving and expanding
national forestry education and training facilities.
C. Detailed Features
Han2rove Afforestation
4.03    Plantation Establishment.  A total area of 100,000 acres is proposed
to be planted with mangrove species. Planting target given in Table 4.01
is based on experience under Credit 1042-BD and on projected land accretion
for each district included in the program.



-16-
Table 4.01: Mangrove Plantations - Annual Planting Target
- (Acres) -
Years
Divisions            1         2         3          4        5         Total
Chittagong        5,000      6,000     6,000      5,000     5,000     27,000
Noakhali          7,000      7,000     8,000     9,000      9,000     40,000
Barisal           5,000      4,000     4,000     4,000      4,000     21,000
Patuakhali        3.000      3.        2.000     2.000      2.000     12.000
Total            20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000    20,000    100,000
=c==          = C====    c===.    -====    =====
4.04    No substantial change is proposed to the present system of plantation
establishment, although existing techniques will be examined under the
applied research program, and changes may be proposed and adopted during the
project implementation period. The principal species will be Keora with Baen
limited to areas of high salinity. Seeds for both species will be collected
within the project area from existing stands. Keora will be raised in tem-
porary nurseries situated close to plantation sites. Baen seeds will be sown
directly as pre-germinated seeds. The current spacing of 3 x 3 ft for Baen
will be retained, while spacing for Keora will be increased from 4 x 4 ft to
5 x 5 ft.
4.05    Maintenance of Existing Plantations.  This would include vacancy
filling during second, third and fourth years of planting for young planta-
tions established prior to the project (about 70,000 acres), climber cutting
as a standard silvicultural treatment during the sixth year (about 65,000
acres), and thinning during the eighth year (about 65,000 acres) for older
plantations.
4.06    Suuuort Services.  The project would provide some 22 residential
units for incremental staff working in remote areas where there is little
opportunity to obtain rented accommodation. About 54 office-cum-residential
buildings would be constructed for field staff. With the exception of
Chittagong Division where most of the plantation areas are accessible from
the mainland, FD staff, laborers and planting material must be transported by
boat. Project implementation and supervision would be dependent on the
availability of suitable water borne transport. The project would provide
82 wooden boats of which 17 would be equipped with 25 HP engines. About 9
motorcycles and 33 bicycles would also be provided to field officers. These
motorcycles and bicycles would be owned and maintained by FD. In addition,
12 four-vheel drive vehicles would be provided. The project would equip 29
remote range offices with wireless sets. The project would also finance



-17-
incremental recurrent cost, including staff salaries and operating and main-
tenance cost. A detailed list of incremental staff under the project is in
Annex 3.
4.07    Public Relations.  Public information and communications program
initiated under MAP (para 2.31) would be strengthened. In order to design
materials that answer the queries and complaints of the local population, the
project would provide six staff months of local expertise to carry out a
socio-economic study. The study would identify the full range of conflict
over land use and explore types of concrete action FD staff could take to
improve the relationship with local villages. Detailed terms of reference
for the consultant are in Project File, Item 9(c).
4.08    Monitorin_.  Changes along the coastline due to land accretion and
erosion and progress on plantation establishment would be monitored by
SPARRSO through remote sensing and/or aerial photography. The 1984 aerial
photographs would be used for the preparation of base maps for verification
of plantations established. Annual updating would be from ground surveys
carried out by FD. Final verification would be made by using aerial
pbotographs to be taken at the end of the fourth calendar year of the
project.
Industrial Plantations
4.09    Plantation Establishment.  The project would establish about 58,000
acres of industrial plantations to regenerate logged over natural forests
and to reforest degraded and barren forest sites. Plantations would be
established under four distinct management systems:
(a) long rotation (40 years) primarily for production of sawlogs;
(b) short rotation (18 years) for production of poles and utility timber
and to a lesser extent fuelwood;
(c) short rotation (12 years) for production of peelers and utility
timber and to a lesser extent fuelwood; and
(d) very short rotation (6 years) for production of fuelwood.
The majority of the long rotation plantings would be with indigenous garjan
(DipterocarDus 8pD), while xylia, mahogany and dkakyam would be planted on
appropriate sites. Short rotation species, primarily for transmission poles
and utility timber would be EucalvRtus camaldulensis and Acacia manaium.
Albizia moluccana would be for production of peelers. Very short rotation
fuelwood plantations would primarily consist of EucalvDtus sDp and Acacia
mangium. Annual planting target is shown in Table 4.02:



-18-
Table 4.02: Industrial Plantations - Annual Plantation Programs (Acres)
Year
Species                  1        2         3       4         5        Total
Long Rotation          2,900    3,700    4,600   5,500    6,300        23,000
Short Rotation
(18 yrs)             2,220    2,260    3,190   3,350    3,840         14,860
Short Rotation
(6 yrs)                 880    1,040    1,510   2,150    2,360         7,940
Fuelvood                 -      1.800    2.900   3.000    4.500        12.200
6,000    8,800   12,200  14,000   17,000        58,000
4.10    Seedling Production.  Garjan seedlings would be raised in nurseries
using polyethylene bags. Seedlings sown in mid-May would be manuaily
irrigated and planted in May/June of the following year. Nursery techniques
recently developed by BFRI would be followed for eucalyptus and mangium.
These include sowing in germination beds, usually seed trays, followed by
transplanting in polyethylene bags. Seedlings are usually ready for planting
within two months. Albizia would be raised by direct sowing in polybags
during March and would be planted in May/June on the onset of the monsoon.
The project would provide for the construction of 40 semi-permanent nursery
sheds adjacent to planting areas with consideration being given to the
availability of good water supplies and potting soil.
4.11    Planting.  Planting would be carried out under the supervision of FD
staff. Following clear felling, remaining vegetation would be manually cut
and burnt during the dry season (early April). Remaining debris would be
stacked and re-burnt. Seedlings would be planted on the onset of the monsoon
in May/June. Young plantations would be weeded during the first three years
and vacancies would be filled in the second year of planting.
4.12    Maintenance of Existing Plantations.  Young plantations (about 25,000
acres) established prior to the project would be maintained under a system
similar to that applied to project plantations. The preliminary FAO/UNDP
inventory estimates that 65,000 acre of about 160,09o ac of older plantations
are of good stocking and vigorous growth. Of these about 45,000 acres need
immediate silvicultural treatment, mainly thinning and cleaning. The project
would include a program of silvicultural treatment to tend these stands. In
the first year of the project, such treatments would be limited to mechanical
thinnings and clearing operations. Silvicultural thinning would be initiated
from the second year, following the completion of management plans.
4.13    Support Services.  The project would provide office buildings and
residential accommodation for about 78 incremental staff. FD has developed
standard simple designs for offices and housing, which are satisfactory. A
total of about 480 miles of fair weather 10 ft wide service road at an
average of 0.008 miles per acre of plantations, following standard designs
prepared by FD, would be established to provide sufficient access for initial



-19-
development and to serve as firebreaks. FD would also be provided with 12
four-wheel drive vehicles, 8 farm tractors and trailers, 24 motorcycles, and
40 bicycles and minor office and field equipment. The project would also
finance recurrent costs including staff salaries, and operating and main-
tenance costs. A detailed list of incremental staff is in Annex 3.
Rpeource Nanaaement System
4.14    The ongoing FAO/UNDP technical assistance program scheduled for
completion in June 1986 is designed to formulate a model working plan for
the hill forests in Chittagong and Cox's Bazar. The proposed project would
extend the FAO/UNDP program by a further 12 months to June 1987 to prepare
the following:
(a) Inventories of resources in Sylbet forest division and mangrove
plantations;
(b) Socio-economic survey of industrial plantations in Chittagong,
Cox's Bazar and Sylhet forest divisions;
(c) Socio-economic survey of mangrove plantations; and
(d) Comprehensive working plan for the entire resources in Chittagong,
Cox's Bazar and Sylhet forest divisions and mangrove plantations.
The FAO/UNDP program is currently managed by a senior forest inventory
specialist and an economist under the supervision of a FAO Chief Technical
Advisor. A forest management specialist and a junior inventory advisor are
due to join the program soon. The project would provide an additional 24
staff months of local expertise and 54 staff months of international consult-
ancy. These would include a forest management specialist, a senior inventory
specialist, a silviculturist, a systems consultant, and a photo interpreter.
The socio-economaic survey of industrial plantations would be carried out by
a team consisting of a project leader, a socio-economist, a group supervisor
and interviewers. The socio-economic survey of the mangrove plantations
would be carried out by a single socio-economist. Two vehicles for field
visits, miscellaneous equipment and counterpart staff would also be provided.
Detailed proposals for restructuring the ongoing FAO/UNDP program and terms
of reference for consultants are in the Project File, Item 9(f). Following
an evaluation in Harch 1985 by FAO/UNDP of the ongoing technical assistance
program, FAO/UNDP is currently preparing a Project Document to restructure
the ongoing program. The Project Document would include detailed technical
proposals, as well as timetable for consultants to be engaged under the
project. During negotiations GOB Rave assurances that it would furnish to
IDA for comment {i) the findings of the socio-economic studies for mangrove
plantations and for the fuelwood plantations to be carried out under the
project, by June 1, 1986, (ii) the draft management plans for the industrial
plantations program, by June 1, 1986, and (iii) the complete management plans
for the mangrove and industrial plantation programs, by December 31, 1986.
4.15    The proposed industrial plantation program (para 4.09) would be an
integral part of the working plans which would be prepared following the



-20-
completion of inventories and the socio-economic study. The working plans
would be completed for implementation beginning in the second year of the
project. The first year planting program, which would not include fuelwood
plantations, would be based on management criteria agreed during appraisal
(Project File, Item 9(a)). Selection of sites for fuelwood plantations,
based on the findings of the socio-economic study, would be 8 condition of
disbursement against expenditure on fuelwood plantations.
Kanxrove Afforestation Research
4.16    The project would support a five-year applied research program cover-
ing silviculture and management of mangrove plantations and a detailed study
on land accretion, ecological succession and land capability. The project
would provide the incremental staff necessary for the operation of the PTU:
5 research officers, 8 field investigators and administrative support staff.
A vehicle and five country boats for staff travel, accommodations for field
investigators, workers barracks, and laboratory equipment would also be
provided. A consultant for four staff months would be provided to assist
BFRI in implementing the research programs.
Forestry Education and TraininR
4.17    The project would follow the strategy for development of national
forestry education and training recently formulated by a government appointed
review committee and endorsed by GOB (Project File, Item 8(b)). The strategy
calls for the upgrading of the professional training, abolishing
sub-professional (Ranger) cadre, and the upgrading of Forester's training to
a full-fledged technical education. No changes are proposed for Forest
Guards' training provided by the Forest School. Professional training would
be at the Institute of Forestry, University of Chittagong. GOB stated during
negotiations that the Institute of Forestry would receive its funds for
annual operating expenses under the project directly through the University
Grants Commission. This would ensure budgetary independence. Minimum entry
qualification would be Higher Secondary School Certificate and successful
students would receive a Bachelor's (Honors) degree in Forestry after four
years of education. Technical education would be a three year program at the
Sylhet Forest School leading to a diploma. Minimum entry qualification would
be Senior School Certificate. In addition to formal training, emphasis would
be given to in-service training which would be at the Chittagong Forest
College. The Forest College would also offer training to Rangers to upgrade
them to full-fledged professional foresters.
4.18    Institute of Forestry.  The project would establish a full-fledged
campus within the Chittagong University witb academic buildings, staff hous-
ing and student dormitory for about 140 students. Annual intake for the
professional training would be 35 students. Teaching and laboratory equip-
ment and books and journals, as well as four vehicles for field trips and
forest tours would be provided. The project would also provide overseas
fellowships for graduate training for six teaching staff.  These would cover
the relevant disciplines of forest engineering, mensuration and forest inven-
tory, forest management planning, agro-forestry, rural sociology and forest
extension, and silviculture and ecology. The project would provide 156 staff



-21-
months of internationally recruited teaching staff including a technical
director to accelerate teaching efficiency and would also finance incremental
operating and maintenance costs.
4.19    Forest School.  The training of foresters would be upgraded to a
three-year course leading to a diploma. No change would be made in the
present training of forest guards, which consists of a three-month course.
The project would finance additional academic buildings for the school, staff
housing, dormitories, laboratory equipment, teaching materials (including the
translation and publication of materials in Bengali), and incremental recur-
rent costs including staff sa'laries and operating and maintenance costs.
Under the project, about 100 students would be enrolled each year in the
Forest School-s three-year foresters (technical level) training course, and
about 150 forest guards would participate in the School-s three-month train-
ing program each year.
4.20    Forest College.  Academic buildings and staff quarters are nearing
completion under a goverrne nt financed project.  The project would provide a
student dormitory, laborat-ry equipment, books and teaching materials, as
well as four vehicles for fiu!ld visits. Overseas fellovships of 12 months'
duration would be provided r r four teaching staff. These would cover
agroforestry, forest inventory, resource management and forest economics.
The project would also finance incremental operating and maintenance costs.
4.21    Departmental Traininm.  At present there are about 50 professional
forestry officers awaiting training. Until the Institute of Forestry is
fully developed, the project would provide two-year overseas fellowships for
23 officers. Most likely the training would be in the South Asia region.
4.22    A broad outline of curriculum for various training programs and terms
of reference for consultants are in Project File item 9(b). A consultant
engaged by FAO/INDP is currently preparing a Project Document covering the
technical assistance and training program of the Forestry Education component
of the project. The Project Document would also include a timetable for
consultants to be engaged under the project.



-22-
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01    Total costs, including contingencies, are estimated at US$36.0 M
equivalent, of which US$9.0 M (25Z) would be foreign exchange cost and
US$0.4 M (1Z) duties and taxes. Summary project costs are in Table 5.01
below and details are in Annex 1 and in Project File, Item 4.
Table 5.0i: Project Cost Summary
Z Total
(Taka Million)           (US$ Million)       Z    Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign  Total   FE  Costs
Mangrove Afforestation       204.8    22.8    227.6    7.2    0.8         8.0   10    29
Industrial Plantations       264.5    44.1    308.6    9.3    1.5        10.8   14    39
Education and Traininf
Institute of Forestry        27.8    53.8      81.6    1.0    1.9        2.9   66    10
Forest College-Chittagong    4.9    14.1        19.0    0.2    0.5       0.7   74      2
Sylhet Forest School         33.9    27.7      61.6    1.1    1.0        2.1   45      8
Departmental Training           -    32.9      32.9       -    1.1       1.1  100      4
Sub-Total Education and
Training                    66.6   128.5    195.1    2.3    4.5         6.8   66    25
Resource Management Program  15.4    28.1        43.5    0.5    1.0       1.5   65      6
Mangrove Afforestation
Research                     6.7      3.5     10.2    0.3    0.1        0.4   34      1
Total Baseline Costs         558.0   227.0    785.0   19.6    7.9        27.5   29   100
Physical Contingencies      24.1      5.0     29.1    0.8    0.2        1.0   17      4
Price Contingencies        186.5    26.4    212.9    6.6    0.9         7.5   12    27
Total Project Costs           768.6   258.4  1,027.0   27.0    9.0       36.0   25   131
- ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~-            =
5.02    The base cost is estimated as of June 1985.  Physical contingencies
are 5% for plantation activities, laboratory and field equipment and civil
works. Price contingencies, accounting for 27% of base costs plus physical
contingencies, are estimated on the basis of rates of inflation projected by
the Bank. Estimates for local inflation rates are: 12% for FY86 and 10%
thereafter. International rates of inflation are estimated at 3.3% for FY86,
7Z for FY87, 7.3Z for FY88, 7.6% for FY89 and 7.7% for FY90.



-23-
B. Financing
5.03    The project would be financed by IDA, UNDP and GOB as summarized in
Table 5.02. Financing from foreign sources would amount to US$32.3 M. This
would represent 90% of total project cost net of duties and taxes, covering
100% of foreign exchange cost and 87% of net local cost. IDA Credit amount-
ing to US$28 M would finance plantation activities (US$15.3 M), vehicles and
equipment (US$2.4 H), civil works (US$4.7 M) and incremental recurrent costs
(US$5.6 M). A UNDP Grant of US$4.3 H would finance technical assistance and
overseas training components of the project, which would be executed by FAO,
under an agreement with UNDP (paras 4.14 and 4.22). IDA would act as
associate executing agency. Execution of a Project Document satisfactory
to IDA, by GOB, UNDP and FAO, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Table 5.02: Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Source of Funds (US$ H)
Project Component                   IDA       UNDP       GOB     Total
Mangrove Afforestation               9.9        -         .8      10.7
Industrial Plantations              13.9        -        1.0      14.9
Education and Training               3.2       3.6       1.4       8.2
Resource Management System            .8         .6       .4       1.8
Applied Research                      .2         .1       .1         .4
28.0       4.3      3.7       36.0
5.04    IDA would provide retroactive financing for expenditures incurred
before credit signing for the establishment of nurseries and initial mangrove
and industrial plantings for the first year of the project. This would
ensure continuity of mangrove planting operations begun under the ongoing
IDA-financed project (Credit 1042-BD). The required amount of retroactive
financing is estimated at about US$1.0 M and would be well within the upper
limit of 10% of the IDA credit.
5.05    The total annual project costs, including taxes and duties, must be
shown in GOB's Annual Development Plan (ADP) to enable full project expendi-
ture to be authorized. For inclusion of project costs in the ADP a Project
Proforma (PP) must be approved by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC). Preparation of a draft PP was a condition prece-
dent to negotiations. The draft PP prepared by GOB was acceptable to IDA.
The draft PP would be revised on the basis of changes agreed to during nego-.
tiations and would be subject to approval by the Project Evaluation Committee
of the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECN7C). A
condition of credit effectiveness would be that the PP reflecting the nego-
tiated credit had been approved by ECNEC.



-24-
C. Procurement and Disbursement
5.06    Project civil works (about US$5.0 M) would consist mainly of con-
struction of academic and laboratory buildings, student dormitories, staff
houses, offices and roads. Work would be scattered throughout the project
area and over the project period. As designs would be simple and construc-
tion technique labor intensive, such contracts would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding and would be let tbrough local competitive
bidding folloving procedures acceptable to IDA. Exceptions would be made for
nursery and vehicle sheds which would be constructed through force account.
5.07    The total vehicle package would be relatively small (about US$0.9 H).
Since most project vehicles would be required immediately upon launching of
the project, they would be procured by competitive bidding advertized locally
from suppliers of foreign made vehicles who have a service network in
Bangladesh and are from IDA member countries. Country boats which would be
built locally and outboard engines which are offered in Bangladesh by a
number of suppliers through local agents (together amounting to US$0.3 M)
would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures.
5.08    Laboratory and teaching equipment, books and journals (about
US$0.7 M) would be financed by UNDP. Under an agreement with GOB the Techni-
cal Cooperation Equipment and Subcontracting Branch (EQUIPRO) of ILO would
handle the procurement of these equipment. Remote sensing equipment and
related services (US$0.9 M) would be supplied by the Government's Space
Research and Remote Sensing Organization (SPARRSO). Miscellaneous items of
field equipment (about US$0.3 M) would be grouped in appropriate bidding
packages and procured by international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The remaining items (about US$0.1 M) would be procured by
prudent shopping.
5.09    Plantation activities (US$15.9 M) would be carried out by force
account by FD. The balance of project costs consists of incremental staff
salaries and operating costs (US$4.6 M), maintenance of existing plantations
(US$3.8 M) and technical assistance and training (US$3.5 M). Technical
assistance and training which would be financed by UNDP would be procured in
accordance with UNDP guidelines.
5.10    Contract Review.  Bidding documents for civil works contracts costing
US$250,000 or more and for equipment and vehicles US$75,000 or more would be
submitted to IDA for review prior to invitation to bid. This would result in
about 20% of contracts covering 55Z of the value of all contracts being
subject to prior review.
5.11    Procurement arrangement  are summarized in Table 5.03.  A review of
local procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, is in Project File,
Item 9(d).



-25-
Table 5.03: Procurement Arrangements
(Us$ M)
Procurement Method
ICB    LCB   Prudent    Force    Other a/  Total
Proiect Element                           Shopping   Account              Cost
Investment Costs
Plantation Activities        -       -       -         15.9       -        15.9
(15.3)              (15.3)
Civil Works                  -     4.9       -           -      0.1         5.0
(4.7)                                  ( 4.7)
Vehicles and Equipment      0.3    2.1      0.1          -      0.7         3.2
(0.3)  (2.0)   (0.1)                          ( 2.4)
Technical Assistance
and Training                -      -        -           -      3,5         3,5
Total Investment Costs      0.3    7.0      0.1        15.9     4.3        27.6
(0.3)  (6.7)   (0.1)      (15.3)              (22.4)
Recurrent Costs                                                             8.4
5.6)
Total Cost                                                                 36.0
(28.0)
Al Procurement following UNDP procedures.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
Disbursements
5.12    Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of:
(a)  1002 of foreign expenditure for directly imported goods, or 100X of
ex-factory expenditure for locally manufactured goods, or 70Z of
total expenditure for goods procured locally (US$2.4 H);
(b)  95% of expenditures for civil works (US$4.7 M);
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures and 95Z of local expenditures on plants-
tion establishment (US$15.3 M); l/
jj  Disbursements would be against three sub-categories: (_) mangrove planta-
tions (US$6.1 M); (ii) industrial plantations other than fuelvood planta-
tions (US$6.7 M); and (iii) fuelvood plantations (US$2.5 M).



-26-
(d) 50% of incremental recurrent costs including incremental staff
salaries and operating and maintenance costs (US$2.4 M); 1/
(e) 95Z of maintenance costs of existing young plantations financed by
IDA for trees planted within the last three years of Credit 1042-BD;
and 75% of maintenance costs of existing plantations financed solely
by GOB and for the older trees planted under IDA Credit 1042-BD
(US$2.9 M). 2/
5.13    Withdrawai applications for all goods under item (a) above and civil
vorks under item (b) above except for small civil works contracts costing
less than USS20,000 equivalent and for payments made in respect of force
account would be fully documented. Foreign expenditures under item (c) above
would also be fully documented. Disbursements against small civil works
contracts costing less than US$20,000 equivalent, force account, plantation
activities, incremental recurrent costs including incremental staff salaries
and operating and maintenance costs, and maintenance costs of existing plan-
tations would be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditure
prepared by the divisional forest officers. The DFOs would verify that work
carried out conformed to appraisal specifications and would certify the
statements, countersigned by the conservators. In the case of planting,
inspection reports and maps clearly identifying the areas planted with cross
reference to claimed expenditures would be retained by FD and made available
for review during project supervision. For the purpose of disbursements
against statements of expenditure, FD's institutional capability, as well as
budgeting, accounting and internal audit procedures are satisfactory to IDA.
5.14    Disbursements would be completed by June 1991 (Annex 1, Table 5).
The six year disbursement period compares with about eight years for a typi-
cal IDA agricultural project in South Asia. The faster disbursement is
expected because 75% of the credit is against plantation activities and
recurrent costs. Plantation activities under Credit 1042-BD has advanced
quickly and this pace of implementation is expected under the project. After
adjusting for anticipated savings of about US$4.0 M due to currency deprecia-
tion (para 2.31) IDA disbursements under Credit 1042-BD as of end March 1985
is about 85% of the appraisal target. The remaining disbursements, mostly
against civil works, vehicles and equipment, would take place early in
project implementation, during the first three years of the project.
5.15    Special Account.  Following Bank Guidelines, a Project Special
Account (PSA) in US dollars, would be opened in the Bangladesh Bank to
facilitate local expenditure and direct foreign exchange payments to overseas
1/ Actual disbursements would be on a declining basis: 90% until cumulative
disbursements under this category reach US$0.6 M; 70% until US$1.2 M; 50%
until US$1.9 M; and 30% until US$2.4 M.
2' Actual disbursements would be on a declining basis: 90% until cumulative
disbursements under this category reach US$0.7 M; 70% until US$1.4 M; 50%
until US$2.2 M; and 30% until US$2.9 M.



-27-
suppliers. The PSA would be established with an initial deposit of US$2.0 M
covering four months expenditure and operated by the project agencies under
procedures acceptable to IDA. Foreign exchange payments would be made direct
from the funds in PSA. For local expenditure the project agencies would
transfer lump sums to Project Accounts maintained in local currency with
commercial banks. Funds released by GOB against ADP allocation for local
expenditure would be deposited into the Project Accounts. Payments by IDA
against reimbursement claims for expenditure met from funds deposited into
PSA, would be credited to PSA and would be without any deduction for the
initial deposit to PSA. Recovery of the initial deposit by IDA would com-
mence when the unwithdrawn amounts in the Credit had been reduced to double
the initial deposit to the Account or during the last six months of the
Credit whichever is earlier. Recovery would be by reimbursing only 50% of
the amounts claimed during the recovery period, until the advance had been
fully recovered.
VI. Organization and Manasement
A. Proiect ImPlementation
6.01    The project would be implemented by agencies under the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Education. The principal entities involved
in project implementation would be the Forest Department, the Bangladesh
Forest Research Institute, and the University of Chittagong.
Forest Department
6.02    FD would be the msin project implementing agency.  It would be
responsible for all planzing activities and forestry education and training,
except for the professional forestry education, which would be the respon-
sibility of the University of Chittagong (para 6.05). The Chief Conservator
would have overall responsibility. The plantation program would be managed
by the Conservators in charge of the different circles--mangrove afforesta-
tion program under the Coastal Plantation Circle, the hill forests in Sylhet
and in Chittagong and Cox's Bazar under the Central and Eastern Circles,
respectively. It would be executed by seven DFOs, four in the coastal dis-
tricts and three in the hill forest divisions. The Deputy Chief Conservator
(Management Planning) would be responsible for resource management systems,
and forestry education and training.
6.03    Pro4ect coordination including monitoring and preparation of
semi-annual progress reports would be the responsibility of the Deputy Chief
Conservator (Management Planning) through the monitoring unit established in
the Management Planning Division.
Bangladesh Forest Research Institute
6.04    The Director of BFRI would be responsible for all aspects of the
mangrove research program and would report to the Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture and Forests. The Director, assisted by a consultant, engaged
under the ongoing project (Credit 1042-BD) would prepare the research
program. A manual of procedures for the administration of research schemes,



-28-
acceptable to IDA has been published by the Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) and circulated to all research institutions. During nego-
tiations, GOB Rave assurance that it would carry out the mangrove afforesta-
tion research program in accordance with a time schedule and implementation
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
University of Chittagong
6.05    The Director of the Institute of Forestry would be responsible for
implementing the professional training component under the project. The
Institute of Forestry as part of the University of Chittagong would remain
under the control of the University governing board within the Ministry of
Education. During negotiations, GOB stated that funds for project implemen-
tation would be released by the Ministry of Education to the Institute
through the University Grant Commission. The Director would report, through
the University Grant Commission, to the Secretary, Ministry of Education.
B.  Control over NewlY Accreted Land and Land Use Coordination
6.06    Present legal arrangements which provide for FD control over newly
accreted lands would expire in 1986 (para 3.06). Given the anticipated
minimum rotation period of about 10 years for mangroves, these arrangements
would require further extension, for at least 15 years to cover the planta-
tions established during the five year project period. Preparation of a
proposal by HLALR and the Ministry of Agriculture for a legal arrangement
satisfactory to IDA, giving FD control over newly accreted land for an ade-
quate period, was a condition of negotiations. During negotiations GOB
stated that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Land Administra-
tion and Land Reforms had agreed on arrangements for FD to retain control
over lands under mangrove plantations established under the project until
their maturity. This agreement which is included in the Minutes of Negoti-
tions and which would be formally reflected in a Government Order is accept-
able to IDA. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that IDA had
received a copy of the Government Order.
6.07    A coordinating committee representing MLALR and the Ministry of
Agriculture (Agriculture and Forest Division and Fisheries and Livestock
Division) would also be established to assist MLALR in defining priorities
for its program of surveying newly accreted land and to address problems of
land use allocation (paras 2.31 and 3.14). Preparation of a proposal outlin-
ing the composition, functions and authority of such a coordinating committee
was a condition of negotiations. During negotiations GOB stated that the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Land Administration and Land
Reforms had agreed on the establishment of the coordinating committee. This
agreement which is in the Minutes of Negotiations and which would be formally
reflected in a Government Order is acceptable to IDA. A condition of credit
effectiveness would be that IDA had received a copy of the Government Order.



-29-
C. Accounts and Audit
6.08    Each implementing agency would maintain separate project accounts
to identify physical progress and financial transactions relating to the
project in a readily identifiable form to enable them to be audited independ-
ently. Separate accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit
withdrawal would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure. Inde-
pendent auditors, acceptable to IDA, would audit the accounts each year.
During negotiations GOB gave assurance that the audited accounts and the
audit report would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of the
fiscal year, and would include an opinion as to whether the credit funds
disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.09    FD's Monitoring Unit would be responsible for monitoring overall
project progress based on information provided by the respective implementing
agencies. The monitoring and evaluation officer would have the primary
responsibility to acquire and process relevant information and to prepare
quarterly progress reports. GOB would submit a project completion report
to IDA not later than six months after the Credit closing.
6.10    The University of Chittagong, in addition, would collect, analyze and
provide information on:
(a) the number of applicants, number accepted and enrolled at the begin-
ning of each academic year;
(b)  the number of graduates who have completed the program within the
prescribed duration of the course, compared with the original intake;
(c)  the number of graduates employed by FD, BFIDC, and educational
institutions;
(d)  the occupation of those who have benefited from scholarships under
the project for postgraduate studies abroad; and
(e)  the staffing situation, including qualifications and turn over.
6.11    FD would collect data and report on plantation activities, including
areas planted, weeded, survival rates and nursery production compared to
project targets. Reports would also be submitted on the progress of the
inventory and management plans, implementation of the latter and staffing
positions including the level of forestry training received. For the Forest
School and Forest College, the informatior. to be provided would include the
number of students (FD staff) who complete the various courses compared to
enrollment and staff situation.



-30-
ImPlementation Schedule
6.12    The project would be implemented over the period July 1985 to June
1990, with an additional lead-in period from about January 1985 to June 1985
for mobilization and preparation work (Atnnex 6, Chart 2). This program has
been designed to coincide with GOB's annual budget procedures and for ease of
translating project details into the government project proforma. Designs
for offices and staff quarters would be according to FD standards and have
been tested in the first project. Design preparation for construction at the
Institute of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School would be
carried out by consultants provided under a UNDP preparation facility. It
would be a condition of credit effectiveness that consultants had been
appointed to prepare architectural designs for the expansion of the Institute
of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School. A condition of dis-
bursements against payments made under civil works, would be that architec-
tural designs satisfactory to IDA had been completed for expansion of the
Institute of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School. All con-
struction sites are owned by GOB and land purchase for project activities
would not be required. The staff of BFRI would be closely monitored by BARC
and those of the Institute of Forestry by the University Grants Commission.
Major implementation delays are therefore unlikely.
VII. PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production
Man2rove Afforestation
7.01    Very little information is available concerning the growth rates of
Keora and Baen. Limited data collected by research staff during implementa-
tion of the ongoing project (Credit 1042-BD) does not allow for detailed
statistical analyses; however, it indicates that growth assumptions used in
appraising the first mangrove project are valid. Therefore, yields similar
to those used for the first project are adapted for the proposed project.
7.02    The principal management objective of the mangrove afforestation
program would be the production of fuelwood. The rotation peri d would be
10 years and estimated mean annual increment (MAI) about 274 ft /acre   Plan-
tations established under the project would yield about 54 million ft fuel-
wood annually between pSoject years 10 and 14. Total fuelvood output would
be about 274 million ft  over a period of five year s.  In addition, thinning
from existing plantations would yield about 900 ft /ac; the extent and rate
of thinning would be determined under the proposed resource management
system.
Industrial Plantation
7.03    The main products from industrial plantations established under the
project would be fuelwood, poles, peelers and sawlogs. Yield estimates for
plantations under the different management systems (para 4.09) based on field
observations and preliminary analysis of inventory data are in Annex 3,



-31-
Tables 1 and 2.  MAI would be about 135 ft3/ac, 248 ft3/ac, 450 ft3/ac and
295 ft3/ac respectively for long rotation, short rotation (18 years), short
roiation (12 years) and fuelwood species. A total estimated yield of 311 M
ft is anticipated from thinnings and clearfelling operations over the
project life.  Total prods ction from plantations established under t e
project would be 142 M ft of fuelvood, 20 M ft of peelers, 38 M ft of
poles and 112 M ft3 of sawlogs.  In addition, thinning from existing plan a-
tions during the project period would yield a total of about 9 to 18 M ft of
fuelvood and poles, a precise estimate would only be possible on completion
of the working plans.
B. Markets
7.04    Given the wide gap between possible demand and expected supply (para
2.08), there would be no difficulty in finding markets for project output,
which is expected to be consumed entirely within Bangladesh.
Fuelwood
7.05    Fuelwood is a source of energy for both rural and low income urban
areas. While it is available commercially in urban areas, in rural areas it
is obtained from tree covered areas around homesteads and villages or from
community or state forests, in many cases illegally. The share of fuelvood
in rural energy consumption varies with the proximity of villages to forests.
For this reason, there is an acute shortage in Central, Eastern and Northern
Bangladesh which are not endowed with forests.
7.06    Project plantations, along with the ADB social forestry program would
help to ease the shortage of fuelvood throughout most of the country.
Mangrove plantations would be a major extension of the Sundarban forest,
which is the main source for urban fuelwood supply for Southwestern, Western
and Central markets. Fuelwood plantations in Sylhet, Chittagong and Cox's
Bazar would supply the needs of local communities. Fuelvood from the long
and short rotation plantations is likely to be marketed in the urban areas
since the felling of these trees would be done by private cantractors.
Poles
7.07    Posts and poles are widely used in house building and in agriculture.
A relatively recent industrial development has been the preservative treat-
ment of wood, mainly poles, for the Rural Electrification Board (REB),
together with cross arms and anchor poles and sleepers for the railways. The
rural electrification program of REB is financed by USAID and the poles are
treated according to international standards. This has been achieved suc-
cessfully by BFIDC, which is thus in a position to win the lucrative interna-
tional tenders of REB against competition from sther countries. BFIDC's
total output of treated wood reached 360,000 ft in FY1983. Demand for poles
is expected to rise to 640,000 ft3 by 1994. Project output would be sold as
standing timber by auction. Before the auction FD would extract suitable
poles and sell them to BFIDC at prices which would cover at least production
costs.



-32-
Peelers
7.08.   Peeler logo are used for the production of pulpwood, matchwood and
mole importantly plywood. Bangladesh plywood production is about 15 million
ft of which about 85% is tea chest plywood, 12% commercial plywood and 3Z
flush doors. The current production of tea cheets is not adequate to meet
the needs of the local tea industry and tea chests have been imported from
India. Markets for project output would primarily be the tea chest and match
factories. Two of the Government owned pulp mills depend on pulpwood for
their raw materials. However, given the high transport costs and better
prices offered by plywood manufacturers and the match industry, it is not
expected that project output would be used as pulpwood.
Sawlogs
7.09    There are about 1600 private small mechanical sawmills in the
country. The combined capacity of these sawmills is about 178 million ft3 of
roundwood per year, working one eight hour shift per day. The country's
largest sawmill is BFIDC's woodworting complex at Kaptai, whose rated log
input capacity is about 950,000 ft per year, working one eight hour shift
per day utilizing straight conifers. There is a chronic shortage of logs in
all mills which are therefore operated at far below potential capacity.
7.10    Little reliable information exists regarding the current consumption
of sawnwood in Bangladesh, but there is a considerable shortage of industrial
wood in the country.  Estimates of total annual sawlog consumgtion differ
widely, ranging from about 21 million ft3 up to 73 million ft per year.
Even this figure is low in relation to the country's 94 million inhabitants.
Various estimates of log supply by sources are shown in the Project File,
item 3. The project's entire output of sawlogs would be for private saw
mills, as BFIDC's complex is serviced by timber from the hill tracts.
C. Prices
7.11    FD would sell output by auction as standing timber.  Stumpage prices
used in the financial analysis are given in Table 7.01.
Table 7.01: Stumpage Prices for Financial Analysis
Tk/ft3
Fuelwood:
Mangrove                         4
Industrial                       6
Poles                                30
Peelers                              40
Sawlogs:
Short Rotation                  27
Long Rotation                   40



-33-
7.12    Fuelvood price is based on the current market price for sundri fuel-
wood from the Sundarbans. As the mangrove plantations are about the same
distance from Dhaka as the Sundarbans, the standing volume price is estimated
as follows:
Tk/gt3
Market Price for Sundri                 10.5
Less: Marketing Costs           2.9
Felling and Cutting       2.4      5.3
Standing Value of Sundri                 5.2
Adjustigg for quality differential, mangrove fuelvood is estimated at
Tk 4/ft . Industrial fuelvood is estimated at Tk 6/ft .
7.13    The price used for poles is the current stumpage value of poles in
the project area. All suitable poles would be purchased by BFIDC. The price
for peelers and savlogs is based on FD latest auction prices in the Cno's
Bazar district. Table 7.02 shows the breakdown of sales:
Table 7.02: Auction Price for Savlogs
Grade           Quantity          Value            Average Price
(ft3)            (Tk)              (Tk/ft3)
A             872,223        38,787,756              44.47
3             581,501        20,704,037              35.60
c             284,583         7,590,500              26.67
D             774.779         9.188.878              11.86
2,513,086       76,271,171              30.30
The price of peelers and long rotation savlogs was estimated at the average
price of Grade A and B logs. The value of Grade C logs is used as the
estimate for short rotation logs.
D. Financial Analysis
7.14    Financial Rates of Return.  Returns have been assessed both for
mangrove and industrial plantings that would be financed under the project.
Costs include physical contingencies and tares. Yield and price assumptions
are as given above. Estimates of financial rate of return on the plantation
components are as follows:
Mangrove Afforestation                         15Z
Industrial Plantations                        18%
Total Plantations                              17%
Details of cost and benefit streams used in calculating the financial rate of
return are shown in Annex 5 and in the Project File, Item 8.



-34-
7.15    Fiscal Impact.  During the project period, direct impact on the
government budget would be minimal. About 90% of project costs would be
financed externally. After the establishment period of about seven years
direct costs (about Tk 3.3 M annually) would be limited to protection and
creeper cutting. Staff and other facilities provided for the proposed
project would be availaale for use in extending the project area in the same
way that the proposed project would benefit from the facilities provided by
existing operations. The cash flow would be positive from year 7 onwards
(Annex 5 Table 3).
VIII. BENEFITS. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01    One direct benefit of the project would be production of about 585
million ft3 of wood. This production would help to maintain the supply of
woods for industrial use as well as for fuel consumption. The strengthening
of the educational institutions, provision of training and technical assis-
tance coupled with the resource management program and research would develop
human capital and improve the country's ability to plan and to manage its
forestry resources efficiently. Other benefits, which are difficult to
quantify, such as increasing the rate of land accretion and provision of
shelter against cyclones in the coastal areas would also accrue under the
project.
8.02    The project would not have a major foreign exchange impact since the
external trade in wood and wood products is minimal. However, assuming that
without the project, the government would allow imports to ease the shortage
of raw materials for wood based industries, the savings in foreign exchange
would amount to about US$459 M over a period of about 37 years. Also,
availability of fuelwood would reduce the use of imported kerosene.
Similarly, with greater availability of fuelvood, agricultural wastes would
be available for fodder and cow dung would be available is fertilizer. About
63,800 manyears of labor would be provided during the project period.
8.03    There would be no adverse environmental impact arising from the
project. The industrial plantation program would contribute towards arrest-
ing the deforestation of the country's national forests -nd it would have an
important positive impact on the microclimate, flora, fauna and general
environment in the project area. The mangrove afforesta-ion program would
increase the rate of soil accretion and provide some protection against
cyclones in the coasta] areas.
B. Economic Analysis
8.04    The economic analysis is in border Bangladesh Takas with interna-
tional prices converted at an exchange rate of US$1 = Tk 26.50. Values are
expressed in 1985 constant prices. Separate analyses are made for Mangrove
Afforestation and Industrial Plantations and the two are combined to assess
the total project.



-35-
Economic Benefits
8.05    The primary benefit of the project would be production of about 169
million ft of peeler logs, sawlogs and poles and 416 ft of fuelvood. The
economic price of the logs is based on the IBRD price forecast for 1985 in
1984 constant prices for the wholesale price of lauan logs in Japan, which is
used as the indicator price in the Asia-Oceanic region. Thirty-three percent
of the price is deducted for quality differential. Local costs, adjusted by
a SCP of 0.83, are deducted to obtain the economic stumpage value (Annex
Table 4).  The economic price of industrial logs is estimated at Tk 42/ft
8.06    Pricing of fuelvood is based on the price of sundri fuelvood with
adjustment for quality differential for the lower valued mangrove fuelwood
and the high valued industrial fuelvood (para 7.12). The economic price is
based on the assumption that 80Z vould replace imported kerosene and 20%
other domestic energy sources (Annex 5, Table 4). With these assumptions the
economic psice is close (98.6Z) to the financial price. The financial price
of Tk 4/ft  for mangrove fuelwood and Tk 61ft  for industrial fuelvood is
used in the economic analysis.
Valuation of Costs
8.07    Project costs include physical contingencies (para 5.02).  Price
contingencies, duty, taxes and subsidies are excluded. Analysis also
excludes the costs of Education and Training, which would benefit the
national forestry sector. The local content of imported goods and local
inputs are adjusted by a standard conversion factor (SC?) of 0.83. The
shadow wage of labor is assumed to be 75% of the market wage rate, based on a
study conducted by a Bank consultant in Bangladesh during 1984. Appropriate
conversion factors have been calculated to reflect the percentage of labor,
local costs and foreign exchange in each item (Project File, Item 8).
Economic Rate of Return
8.08    The economic life of the project would vary depending on the manage-
ment system adopted. It would be 14 years for mangrove species, 16 years for
Albizia, 22 for other short rotation species and 44 for long rotation. The
economic rates of return are summarized in Table 8.01.
Table 8.01: Economic Rates of Return
Percentage
Mangrove Afforestation                      17
Industrial Plantation                       22
Total Project                               20
Calculation of the economic rates of return is shown in Annex 5, Tables 5 to
7. Further details are provided in Item 8 of the Project File.



-36-
Sensitivity Test
8.09    Svitching values 1/ were calculated to assess the impact of varia-
tions in cost and benefit streams on the profitability of the total project.
The results are summarized in Annex 4, Table 7. The results indicate that
the project is more sensitive to decreases in benefits than to increases in
costs. Benefits would have to fall by 55% or costs would have to rise by
123% for the project to prove not economically viable, assuming the oppor-
tunity cost of capital is 12Z. If costs were to rise by 30% with benefits
unchanged, the rate of return would fall to 17Z. If the benefits fell by 30X
while the costs remained constant the rate of return would be 16%. In the
unlikely event of costs rising by 30Z simultaneously with benefits falling by
302, the rate of return would be about 13%. If there were a two year lag in
benefits accompanied by a 20% increase in costs the rate of return would be
15%.
C. Proiect Risks
8.10    Experience from ongoing projects indicates that the project would be
exposed to a number of risks. The most important risks are discussed below:
(a)  Sedimentation in certain parts of the delta can be excessive with
annual increments so great or chars so mobile that topographic change
is independent of vegetative cover. Under these conditions site
selection would lead to: burial of seedlings; washing away of plant-
ings, or stagnant growth due to lack of inundation. However, FD has
developed sufficient experience in site selection since 1966 to keep
this risk to an acceptable level. Also, the costs of establishment
of mangrove plantations provides for replacing about 80% of plants
that are washed out.
(b)  The occurrence of strong winds (100-150 miles per hour) during
cyclonic storms could break or uproot plants in the mangrove planta-
tions. Distributing plantations throughout the coastal area would
spread the risk of storm damage.
(c)  Theft and illegal grazing of newly established plantations remains a
risk. The project would provide for the establishment of short
rotation fuelwood plantations, adjacent to populated areas, which
would provide a local supply of fuelwood and, thereby, reduce pres-
sures on long rotation plantations. The selection of sites for short
rotation fuelwood plantations would be based on a socioeconomic study
which would provide an analysis of local fuelwood usage patterns and
information needed by the Forest Department to foster support among
villagers for the development of these fuelwood plantations.
/  Switching value is the percentage change in the specified cost or benefit
stream that reduces the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project to zero at
a specified discount rate (12% for Bangladesh).



-37-
(d) An additional possible risk would be to the Institute of Forestry
in the University of Chittagong. Recently there has been student
unrest in Bangladesh universities which, if it recurs, could disrupt
implementation of the education and training component. Should this
occur, this risk could be minimized by the provision of additional
overseas fellowships for the training of professional foresters.
8.11    FD-s positive experience in dealing with the above risks as well as
the further protection measures provided for in the project, indicate that
these risks can be kept to manageable levels. The acceptable level of risk
and the estimated ERR of 20Z fully justifies the proposed investments.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES
9.01    At negotiations Government zave assurances that:
(a) the findings of the socio-economic studies for mangrove plantations
and for fuelvood plantations would be furnished to IDA for its com-
ments by June 1, 1986 (para 4.14);
Cb) draft management plans for the industrial plantations programs would
be furnished to IDA for its comments by June 1, 1986 and complete
management by December 31, 1986 (para 4.14);
(c) the research program would be administered in accordance with a time
schedule and implementation procedures satisfactory to IDA
(para 6.04); and
(d) audited accounts and reports would be sent to IDA within nine months
of the close of the fiscal year (para 6.08).
9.02    Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
UNDP Project Document (para 5.03);
(b) the PP reflecting the negotiated credit had been approved by Govern-
ment (para 5.05);
(c) arrangements giving FD control over newly accreted land had been
implemented and IDA had received a copy of the relevant Government
Order (para 6.06);
(d) the Coordinating Committee to address problems of land use allocation
had been established and IDA had received a copy of the relevant
Government Order (para 6.07); and
(e) consultants had been appointed to prepare architectural designs for
the expansion of the Institute of Forestry, the Forest College and
the Forest School (para 6.12).



-38-
9.03    Conditions of disbursement would be that:
(a) against expenditure on fuelvood plantations, selection of sites had
been based on findings of the socio-economic study (para 4.15); and
(b) against payments made under civil works, architectural designs satis-
factory to IDA have been completed for the expansion of the Institute
of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School (para 6.12).
9.04    With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 27.1 N (US$28.0 M) to GOB.



-39-
ANNEX 1
Table 1
SN111ADESN
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMIllARI ACCOUKYS COST sumURT
Tlak  0001                    4uS$ 'OOl                     I total
--------------------------I----  -------------------------  I Foreign   Sas
Local    Foreign    lotal       tocal   Foreign  total    Exchag       Costs
1 INIVESIIENT COSTS
&  CIVIL flRS                               74.41t.5  36.16.9   llO.603.4   2 511.1 1.269.7 3E880.8           .33        14
&  EQUIPMENT aNo VEHICLES                   2808a.4  42.819.2    70.9576        985.56 1.5042  2. 49. 7        E0         9
t  PLANTATION ESTABLISHMHENT               309.791.l  10.974.9   320.76t0  :0.859.9   385.1 11.254.9            3       41
0. BOOKS AND IEAWIING RIAERIALS                207.3   4. 18.7    4.32i 0         7.3   144.5    151.8         95         I
E. FELLONSHIP TRAINING                             - 45.30ao0    45.308.0           - I.589.8  1.583.8        loo         6
F. TECOIICAL ASSISTMCE                       4.B72.0  45.1 50.0    50.022.o     170.9 1.584 2      755. 2      9o        6
Total IHVESTIIT COSTS                         417,375.3 14.507.7    01l.983.O  14.644. 7 6.477.5 21.122.2         33       77
II. RECURRENT COSIS
A, STIFF COSTS                             31.374.7         -    31.3?4.?7    . 100.9      -  t. 100.9         -        4
EL OPERATIOI  MND  RINTENIACE              22.555.9  30.4ff  7    513012.6     7S1.4 1. 06. 7  1.860. I       57        7
C. OIHER RECURRENT COSTS                   11.923.2   1 324.8    13.248.0      4I8.4    46.5    464.8         10        2
o. NATINTEIICE OF EXISTING PLANTITIONS    74.300o3  10.627.4    85.427.7  2.624.5   372.9  2.997.5            12       13
Total RECURRENT COStS                         140.6i4.0  42.401S!   183.063.0   4.935.2 1.488e0  6.423.3          23       23
Total B*SEL1NE COSTS                           55&.02t  227.015 7   7as.046.0  19.580.0 7.965.5 27.545,5           29       3oo
Physical Contigmictas                        24.085.1   4g954.5    29.039.5      845.1   173.8  1.0 I&.         lJ        4
Price Continguncies                         186.52S .  26539.S5   212.924I  6,544.8   926.3  7.4730             !2      27
Tota  PROJECT COSTS                            758.640 0 258.369. 7 1. 027.009.7  2,6 9.8 9.065.6 36,035.4         25       131
------------- ------------ ------------- ---=---=---- ------------ - =====- -- -- -- - = = = - -------------------------------===



ANG01OESIH
SECONID tOtSIRI PRa4tci
Stjry  Account by Projccl Couponnt
(l&ak '0001,
EtUChIION AND IAININIG
........................ ....................                                                      Physical
FORESI    5liNtl                    RESOURCE       MANGROVE                     Conilngencles
MANGROVE      INDUSISIAI   INSIIFUIU  Of COLLEGE -   FORSI  DEPARIMILNJAI  MAN41GEMNI  AFIORESIAIION                            -. ..-
arI°RESIosaON  PNInsaIONws  .REoSRms   CHITTAGONG SCiOOl    iRAIWING                PROGRAfi       RESEARCH         total '            Iunt
I. INVESIMENI COSIS
A. CIVLl  ORKS                                        4.920. 0     31,912.4        25, 957.0    2,250.0 36.304.0                                       2,200.0      110,603.4   1.0  5,530.2
I. EOUIPMENT AND VEHICLES                            I7, 101.0      12,8 45. 4      5092.0    4, 146. 2  7, 842. 0                    20. 297. 0       2. 023. 0     10, 957. 6   0.9    651. I
C. PLANIATION ESITAUISHWEIN                         130,546.9    190,217.2                 -                                    -                             -    320. 755.0   5.0 11,033.3
0. BOOKS £lO IECHIIfG MiAfR/lAS                              -. 435. 0    7. 200.0    69.                                       -                                     4, 326. 0   0. 0     0. 0
E. IELLONSI41P TRAINING                                                            S9 214.0    3 211.0                  32.67180                                     41,306.0   0.0        0.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE                                                    -       26 940.0    2 200.0  1, 100.0                      15,534.0         1,248.0        0, 022.0   0.0       0.0
Total INVESIMENT COSIS                                  1 3, 17 .9    239, 03. 0      72, 653. 0   14, 012. 2 4, 931. 0    3,s78. 0    36,5 31. 0         5, 416. 0    601. 83.    3. 7 22, 221. 5
II. RACURRINI cos0s
........................... 
A. STAFF CoSIS                                     li.531.2        6,316.0                               4,046.1               *     2,607.            18 715.0    31,374.1   0.0         0.0
5. OPER*IION AND MAINIENANCE                        20, 530. 1     is, 131.4       3,906.6    2,351.1  5. 11614                *     2,071.0          I,JJ1.0       513 012.56   4.8  P.46. ?
C. OTHER RtCURRENT COSIS                                    -             -        5.101.0    2.641.0  5,100.0                 -                             -      13,246.0   0.0        0.0
0. MAINTENANCE Of EXISTING PlANTAIO0NS             38,415.0       47,012.7                                                     *                                   1  5,427.7   S.0  4,271.4
local RECURRENI COSTS                                   14, 44?. 3     69, 548. 1      9, 015.6    5, 002. I is. 663. I                   4,6 3. 8         4, 666.0    III. 063.0   3.1  1, 818. I
lotal BASEtINE COSTS                                    227,656.1    306,513.1         S,,1i53.I   19,014.3 61,600.1    23,5.6  0    43,516.6             10, 142.0    185,048.0   3.7 29,039.6
Phyaical ConlIngencles                                 9 120.1       14 467.0         1, 30.1       343.17  2. 411. I                                      286.8      29.09. 6   0.0        0. 
Pr Ice CentlIngonc to                                 65 ,26. 8     10. 781. 5       14 U8. 8    2, 941. 2 IS, 306. A      1, 405. 1    8, 156. 9       2, 211. 5    212, 924. 1   4. 0  61,49.?
lotal PROJECI COSIS                                     304, 001. 6    433,635.5       93, 371. 1   22, 299. 1 19, 315.0    34. 256. 1    52, 273. 1       1, 620. 4  1. 021. 009. 7   3.1 37,4919.3
TaI s                                                  433.1         1091.2                 *                                             365.4            399.?      10.224.0   0.4       39.9
Foreign Exchange                                      26 156. 3     53 066.0        60. 575. 1   11. 540. 4 32,543.9     34. 266. 1    31, l1S. 5       3, 93. 4    158, 369. 7   2. 2   ,1700. 3
.......... ............. ...... ........ ..... ...... ............................ ........... ............ ... .... ................... ..... ............ ...... .. . . ....... ....... ........... ...... ... . ... .. .... ........
EN
NH 



CSDIGtA0ESHI
SECOND IORESIR7 PROJECI
Project Cowponents by Vear
Totals Including Contingencies                                   lotals Includir, Contingencies
Slake '0001                                                      iUSs  00OI
I          22.        1           4          5        lotal           1        2        3         4        5      total
ummuaga.. a.uau::sm  ua:uuaaa asu2ma:.. uua uh    1a:uuut   2:82:88  na15: 422:: 1     :::::: 25.  ::::::: ;:ttttt
A. MANCROVE AIfORESTATION                     57.772.2  58014.6  60,929.9  60,365.0  55,921.0   204,05.6  2,027.1 2,035.6 2,121.9 2. 116.2 2.34. 1 10.61.9
6. INDUSTRIAL PLANIATIONS                     60 542.5, 5                                                                                              29.2I 51.JS. I  92 780.6 120 219.5   42J  J.635 a7 124.3 2.415.4 2,815.6 3,215.1 4,270.  14.651.4
C. EDUCAItION AND TRAININGG8
... ....................
INISIItUE O1 TORESIaR                      7.572. 0  39,059.4  43.643.4   3,580.4   4,411.9    98. 371.1    265.7 1.370.5 1.531. 3   129.1    154.3  3,451.6
fOREST COLLEGE - CHITAGONO                 S 093. 3   8 285. 8   4 924. !   1 909.2   2,060.4    22 299.1    118.9   290.1    112.              57.0    73.0    752.4
5I7HEI FORESI SCHOOL                        7. 141.5  24,076.3  34,041.7   5,157. 1   7 493. 3    79,315. 0    250.6   544.9 1. 194. 1   230. 1   262.3  2. 783. 1
DEPARtHENTIL tRAINING                      16. 710. 2  17,575.18                      -               34. 265. 1    566.3   616. 7        -                  -  1, 203.0O
Sub-Total EDUCATION AND IRAININO              36,523.   68.999.3  62,615.6  12. 146.7  13,969.    234,214.3  1.261.! 3,122.6 2,695.6   42S.2   490.9  5,220.2
0. RESOURCE ISANGIHIENT PROGRAM               15. 022.   11 615.5   3, 95J. 0  14. 359. 4   7. 324. 9    52, 273. 7    527. 1   407. 6    138 6   501.)   257.0  1,634.2 2
f. MANGROVE AFFORESATOIIN RESEARCH             4, 216.0   3, 457.6    1.242.9     1169.3   2 327.6    12,620.4         147.9   121.3    43.9        45.0    AI.7    442.5
.;;;;.. ..... W.........   .| ..... f$sg.... .....I... ........... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ........
total PROJECT COSTS                           I174.076  230,926.1 230, 130.4 151,024.0 210.552,7  1,021.0011.1  6,0.0 5o.a,102.) B 5074.5 A5,351. 77.395.3 35,035.4
uuu:fl:2m  82*:2t:zza 2:3:uSh,l 112:3:113       sasan 28818 2 11f188881: ZnS 22 32123fl231:2   228.    flfl   2
................    ....................... ............. ......... ................................................................ .... .... ..... .................. .............................................................. .
I-I
H Itw



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECI
Sunsry Accounts by Year
lotols Including7 Contirwncios                                lotcls Including Contlngencies
Totals Inldn  Cant IneoseIil                                        US$ ' 0001
Tlake 1000I.fs   00
................................................................................................. *........ .  ................................................
I         2          3          4          5        Total           1       2        3        4       5      Total
2:2:::::S     222:2:3:3 .432:2311   uu.,. 2 2233222:3 ;.:..::::::X 322tt2  22:22:  ::          Z 22223  2:2 :322fl2  22:2:22
1. INVESTNENI COSTS
................
A. CIVIL NORMS                                 23,921.2  52,788.8  60. 172.5   2.341. 4   3.127 5   14,2351.4    839.3 1.852.2 2. 111.2    82.2   109.7  4.9Y4.8
5. EQUIPHINI AND VE9ICLIS                      25. 290. 5  21. 390.2  17. 220. 1   14. 479.0   5. 499. 3    83, 79. 6    87.4   750.5   604.2   "Al. 0   193.0  2. 943. 1
C. PLANTATION ES1AILISHNENT                    41. 298.5  65, 383.6  90. 532.3 114. 685. 1 141. 160.5   453. 160.0  1,452.6 2.294. 2 3. 116. 64. 024.0 4. 953 0 15. 900.4
0. BOOrS AND ItACHING MATERIALS                  1. 25. 5   1. 290.39     92.4      671.2      122.5     4,862. 3      45. 1    45.3    31. 3    23.6    25. 4    510 6
E. FELLOWSHIP TRAINING                         16, 710.2  24, 931.0   6.352.1                           41.999.9    586.3   875.0   222.9                       1.6J4.2
F. ItECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       12,023. 0  26.132.6  14,936,9        375.1   1.231.7    54,699.3    421.9   916.9   524. 1    13.2    43.2  1,919. 3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            120,628.5 191, 923.2 190, 107, 3 132, 551.9 11. 741.6   786. 952.5  4, 232. 6 6,734. 1 68 670. 4 4, 650.9 5.324.3 27. 612.4                  &
:   2                ,,,212::, 222232222 223222222   23.........23,,2   ::::::.....  ::::  .... 2     ..  .......2...... :  
It. RECURRENT COSIS
...............
A. SlATF COSTS                                 3. 075.5   5.517.7   8,485.0  11.293.7  14.454.0    42,536.0          107.9   195.7   297.7   396.3   507.2  1.504. 5
D. OPERA?ION AND MAINIENANCE                   6. 351. 1  10, 652. 7  14. 805. 1  19, 273.4  20,967.9    72. OSO. 2    222.8   373.8   519.5   676.3   7135.7  2. 528. I
C. OIHER RECURRENT COSIS                       5,365.0   2. 356.8   3,324.9   4,421.9   6,407.0    17.905 3          47 9    53.17   55.7   155.2   224.8    528 3
D. MAINIENANCE or EXISTING PIANTATIONS    42, 656. 5  20,385.9  13. 408. 1  13. 483. 1  17. 282. I   107, 215. 8  1. 496. 7   715.3   470. 5   473. 1   606. 4  3.162 0
total RECURRENT COSTS                             53, A4. 1 39, 002.8  40. 023. 1  48, 472. I 59. III. 1   240.057.3  1. 875. 4 1,38. 5 1.404.3 1. 700. A 2, 014. 1  8. 423. 1
23.:323 3332,,,l :22:22223 :.,33323:2 :i:i::::,:,, 2222:2:2 3:2:2:332222::     :2:2:22:2:22zsS 22:22:23
Total PROJECI COSTS                                574.076.? 230,926.5 220, 130.4 151,024.0 210.852.? 1,027.005.7  6,108.0 8,102.          0 78,04.8 6.3551. 71,9.3 35,035.4
............... .........................................................I....................................... ........................................................ ..._
IM
4A -



-43-
ANNE 1
Table 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year                                      Disbursement
and Ouarter                            Ouarter              Cumulative
1986/ 1
2
3
4                                    3 a/                    3
1987/ 1                                    1                       4
2                                    1                       5
3                                    1                       6
4                                    1                       7
1988/ 1                                    1                       8
2                                    2                      10
3                                    1                      11
4                                                           12
1989/ 1                                    1                      13
2                                    2                      15
3                                    2                      17
4                                    1                      18
1990/ 1                                    1                      19
2                                    2                      21
3                                    2                      23
4                                    1                      24
1991/ 1                                    1                      25
2                                    1                      26
3                                    1                      27
4                                    1                      28
/J Includes the initial deposit of $2.0 N to the Special Account.
Credit Effectiveness : by January 1, 1986
Closing Date            : June 30, 1991



-44-
ANNEX 2
Table I
BANGLADESH
SECOND PORESTRY PROJECT
Mangrove Afforestation
Plantation Establishment Program
- -----------Years--------------
Species                              1       2        3        4       5        Total
Keora (acres)                    19700   19700   19700   19700   19700          98500
Baen (acres)                       300      300      300      300     300        1500
TOTAL                          20000   20000   20000   20000   20000         100000



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTY PROJECT
Mangrove Afforestation
Nursery Establishment and Plantation Maintenance
-------Years   ---                      Total           ----Years-----
Operations                                 1      2       3      4       5      Project        6       7      8
(acresT            -       Period              (acres)           Total
A.  Nursery Establishment
Planting                            19700  19700  19700  19700 19750        98500          -       -     -      98500
Re-planting                          9850   9850   9850   9850  9850        49250        9850      -     -      59100
First Beating Up                     4925   4925   4925   4925  4925        24625        4925   4925    --    34475
Second Beating Up                       -    3940   3940   3940  3940       15760        3940   3940  3940    27580
Third Beating Up                               -    1970   1970  1970        5910        1970   1970  1970    11820
34475  38415  40385  40385 40385    194045         20685  10835  5910   231475
B.  Plantation Maintenance                                                                                                       r
Keora
First Beating Up                        -   19700  19700  19700 19700       78800       19700      -     -       98500
Second Beating Up                       -      -   19700  19700 19700       59100       19700  19700    -        98500
Third Beitting Up                       -      -     _    19700 19700       39400       19700  19700 19700       98500
-   19700  39400  59100 59100    177300         59100  39400 19700    295500
Baen
First Beating Up                        -     300    300    300   300        1200         300      -     -        1500
Second Beating Up                       -      -      300    300   300        900         300    300    -         1500
Third Beating Up                                             300   300        600         300    300   300        1500
300    600    900  .900        2700         900    600   300       4500  
TOTAL MANGROVE MAINTENANCE                      20000  40000  60000 60000    180000         60000  40000 20000    300000



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Industrial Plantations
Planting Program1/
-Years----------------
Districts                                       1         2        3         4         5        Total
(Ac-res) 
SYLHET
Fuelwood Plantations                          -       300      400       500       500          1700
A. ioluccana Plantations                    480      640       960      1600      1760         5440
Short Rotation Plantations                  120      160       240       400      440          1360
Long Rotation Plantations                   400      500       800      1000     1300          4000
1000     1600      2400     3500      4000         12500
CHITTAGONG
Puslwood Plantations                          -     1000      1500      1500     2000          6000
A. moluccana Plantations                    300       300      400       400      400           1800
Short Rotation Plantations                 1200      1200     1600      1600      1600         7200
Long Rotation Plantations                  1000     1200      1300      1500      1500         6500
2500     3700      4800      5000     5500         21500
COX'S BAZAR                                                                                                                              t.
Puelwood Plantations                          -      SOO      1000      1000     2000          4500
A. ioluccana Plantations                    100       100      150       ISO      200           700
Short Rotation Plantations                  900      900      1350      1350      1800         6300
Long Rotation Plantations                  1500     2000      2500      3000     3500         12500
2500     3500      5000      5500     7500         24000
TOTAL                                        6000      8800    12200    14000    17000           58000
11/"m6tr is e.tablished one year before planting.
Planting Program (Sutmary)
Species                      Year I      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5    Total
Fuelwood                         -         1800       2900        3000        4500    12200
Albizia                        880         1040        1510       2150        2360      7940
Short Rotation                2220         2260        3190       3350        3840    14860             
Long Rotation                 2900         3700       4600        5500        6300    23000                                  La
TOTAL                      6000          8800      12200       14000       17000    58000



BANGLADESH
S2COND FORESTRY PROJECT
Industrial Plantations
Maintenance Program
Total
Years                      Project       Post-Project
Districts                                        1       2        3        4        S        Period        6         7      Total
(WC-es)                        -  
SYLHET
=ueTwood Plantations
--Second Year Maintenance                            -      300      400     500          1200       500        -       1700
--Third Year Maintenance                    -        -        -      300     400           700       500       500      1700
Short Rotation Industrial Plantations-
--Second Year Maintenance                  -       600    800    1200       2000         4600      2200        -      6800
--Third Year Maintenance                   -        -     600       800      1200        2600      2000      2200      6800
Long Rotation Industrial Plantations
--Second Year Maintenance                  -       400    500       800      1000        2700      1300        -       4000
--Third Year Maintenance                   -        -      400     500        800        1700      1000      1300      4000
CIITTAGONG
Fueiwoop Plantations
--Second Year Maintei.ance                  -        -    1000    1500        1500        4000      2000        -       6000
--Third Year Maintenance               1    -        -       -      1000      1500        2500      1500      2000      6000                  4-
Short Rotation Industrial Plantations-
--Second Year Maintenance                   -       1500   1500    2000      2000         7000      2000        -       9000
--Third Year Maintenance                    -        -    1500    1500       2000         5000      2000      2000      9000
Long Rotation Industrial Plantations
--Second Year Maintenance                   -      1000   1200    1300        1500        5000      1500        -       6500
--Third Year Maintenance                    -        -    1000    1200        13)00       3500      1500      1500      6500
COX'S BAZAR
Fuelwood Plantations
--Second Year Maintenance                   -        -      500    1000       1000        2500      2000                4500
--Third Year Maintenance               1                     -       Soo      1000        1500      1000      2000      4SOO
Short Rotation Industrial Plantations5
--Second Year Maintenance                   -      1000   1000    1500        1500        500S      2000        -       7000
--Third Year Maintenance                    -        -    1000    1000        1500        3500      1500      2000      7000
Long Rotation Industrial Plantations
--Second Year Maintenance                   -      1500   2000    2500        3000        9000      3500        -      12500
--Third Year Maintenance                    -        -    1500    2000       2500         6000      3000      3500    12500
TOTAL INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS                           6000  14800   21000    26200          68000    31000    17000   116000            Me
_IncludesAlbiza.                                                                                                  -             S
V/ Includes Albizia.                                      -X--                                                           



-48-
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Incremental Staff
A. Mangrove Afforestation
Category                   Existing        Required        Incremental
Asst. Conservator
of Forests                    8              10                2
Range Officer                 36              50               14
Deputy Range Officer/
Forester                    168             341              173
Forest Guards                310             403               93
Radio Operators               25              27                2
Accountant                     5               6                1
Captain                        4               S                1
Boatman                      550             657              107
Mali                         150             245               95
B.  Industrial Plantations
Category               Existing           Required    Incremental
Asst. Conservator
of Forests                 15               16             1
Range Officer               91              139           48
Deputy Ranger/Forester    332               365            33
Surveyor                     -                4             4
Radio Operator               9               12             3
Junior Clerk                38               44             6
Mali                        92              156           64
C. Sylhet Forest School
Category               Existing          Reagnred      Incremental
Senior Instructor            2                 7            5
Instructor                   1                 9            8
Junior Instructor            6                16           10
Office Superintendent        -                 1            1
Librarian                    -                 1             1
Physical Training
Instructor                  -                 1            1
Sr. Clerical/Typist,etc.    -                  8            8
Junior Clerical                                5            5
Other Staff                                   20           20



-49-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Mangrove Afforestation
Yield Estimates for Keora and Baen 1/
No. of                      Basal    Volume of      Total
Age  Stems   Diameter Height   Area       Average Tree  Volume
per acre  (Inch)   (Feet)(sqftlacre)  (cuft)       (cuft/acre)
10 Year Rotation Period
0  1,394.gj     -        -          -           -
10    941 ]f   5.5     40.7          -       2.909       2,737
V volume calculations based on modified height and volune formulas
developed by the Forestal International Consulting Firm:
H = 4.5 + 7.475 D, vhe e D is D3H in inches, R is height in feet.
VI = -0.166 + .0025 (DPR), where VI is total volume of wood in cuft
up to I inch diameter.
21 80X survival.
31  4Z annual mortality.



*OCOII 10131S1Y PIOJECT
Industrial Plantation
A. Timld 4etlxstes for luelwvod Plantations j
No. of                                              Basal              Volume uf               Total
Age         atm.            Dimeter           he4gbt            Area              Averoge Tree             Volvme
oer ecre  _       (inch)           (feet)         (ad ft/cero)           (cu ft)             (eu ft/acer
0          1,740              -                 -                 -                     -                     _
6          1,568              4                46               136                 1.130                 1,772
12          1,568              4                46               136                 1.130                 1,77Z
13          1,566              4                44               136                 1.130                 1,772
24          1,563              4                46               136                 1.130                 1,772
1/  Eased on 4 coppice rotations.
S. Tield Netluate. for *bort Rotation Species
Itand Before  binnin                           I    ita         stand   I       Paovd Staod                I             Outmt
No. of                           heal    Tolume of        Total    I  No. of       easel   I  No. rf       BEael                I luelvood   Poles   lawlose
Age   Stma      Dimeter  Height        Area    Average Tree   volume   I stems pea   Area    I Itma per   Area               Voluve   I (ec  ft/   (ca Et/  (co ft/
per acre   (ineb)   (fast)  lo ft/ec)   (eu ft)    (   ft/oe) I    ce            C. ft/ae) I   acre   (do ft/ao) (cu it/ac) I   acre)           acre)    acre)
0     538          -         _           _            _              _          _           _           _           _           _           _          _          _
3     484          6        49          95          2.8          1,355        242        66.5         242        20.5         406         406          -          -
12     242         10        65         131         10.6          2,565        121       37.8          121       43.2          84I         501        254         Sb
I1     121         14        75         129         26.6         3,219           -           -         121       129.0       3,219         644         66      1,609
C. Yield estimtes for lhort Rotation (Albisia) snecies
8tacr  Before ThinanLe                         I   lMauniha Itand    I           leui4 Itand               I             outpu
No. of                           Basal    Volue* of       Total    I No. of        Basel   I  No. of       Basl                 I uelvood  feelers  lawloge
Age   Stems    Diaeter  Height         Area    Average Tree   TolIum    I 8te per   Area    I Items per   Area               Volum     I (eu ft/,  (eu ft/  (GU ft/
per acre   (inch)   (feet)  tCo tt/ec)   (cU ft)    (cu ft/ac) I   acre   (do ft/ac) I   acre   (so ft/cc) (cu ftiac) I   acre)                 acre)    acre)
0     533          -         -                        -                                    - _  _  _     _          _
5     4S4          7        40        129         3.6U         1,765         242         90            193         34         52Y         52;           _        _
D     291          9        65        129         6.977        2,172          139         90           152         39         652         326         326        -
12     139         13        s0        129        21.978        3,055            - _        -           139        129      3,055          916       2,138        -
D.  Yiold litigates for LoAt  otation ineeiss
Stand Before Thinmins                          I  I- Infhi aa.J   d i  I        Imwud  *t.nd               I
Ho. of                           Basl    Volume of        Total    I  Nb  of       husl   I  No. of        easel                I luelwood   Polse   lewloge
Age   stems    Dimeter  leight         Area    Average Tree   Tolum        I Ites per   Area    I Stems per   Area           Tolume   I (eu Et/  (CC  it,  (eU ft/
per acre   (ineh)   (feet)  (co ft/ec)   (eu ft)    (co ft/ce) I   acre   (so ft/ac) I   acte   (la ft/oe) (eu ft/ce) I   sera)                 acre)    aere)
0     533          -         -           -            -        _            _           _           _          _ -  -                        -                   -
15     430          6        40        64.4        3.071        1,321           263     63.16           172       P1.2         133          106        27         -
20     258          S        70        90,1        6.683        2,240           155     66.47           103       21,6         21          103        66        U 23
30     155         12       100       121.7       26,0t7        4,043            93     73.04            62       48.7         646          129       323       194
40      93         16       110       129.9       47.549        4,422             -          -           93      129.9       4,422          44;       44A    3,538



-51-
ANNEX 5
Table 1
B8NCLAOESH
SECONO FOnRESTR PROJECT
MANGROVE AFFOREStEtNE G7ST AND BENEFIT STRnAuS fOR FIMNCIAL  ANLYSIS
IThousands of lakes)
1       2       3       4       5       6        7       8       9      30   11-14
enf i ts
Production of Rangrove Fusood (000 cl. Ft. I          -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -  54739   54739
Price of FuelIood                                     4       4        4       4       4       4       4        4       4       4       4
BENNF                                                 -        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       - 218956  218956
Inwestment Costs
Estsb;islownt Costs 'Laborl                       31747   25958   21101   29041   20187    7330    42ff   2123    1182    1182
Establisl_nt Costs  llaterialsI                    6ga      414      435     435     124      62      21        -       -       -
Establislwnt Costs  langrov)                      32430   26372   28536   29476   2031t   7392    4287    2123    1182    1182
Civil Works                                        272t   2150    1o0o         -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Civil Horks                                        2857   2258    1145         -       -       -       -        -       -       -       _
Equipmnt and Vehicles                              6222    6222    468       575       -       -        -       -       -       -
langrove Research                                  3971    2654    1097    1097    1409        -        -       -       -       -
Rsourc  Management                                 3870    2720    1972    8193    285          -       -       -       -       -
Investment Costs (Mangroea                        49350   40235   37437   39341   24575    7392    4287    2123    1182    1132
R current Costs
Base Salaries                                     13017   12017 1  3017   13017   t3017        -        -       -       -       -
Incrnemntal Salaries                                739    1456    2148    2840    3472        -       -        -       -       -
Saiaries                                          13755   14473  I5Sl5   15857   16489         -        -       -       -       -
Bas Uniforms and Ovrhead Casts                      266     266      2fS    266      216                -       -       -       -       -
Incrmontal Uniforms and Overhead Costs               37      73      107     142     174       -       -        -       -       -
Uniforms and Overhad Costs                          303     339      373     408     440       -        -       -       -       -
Base Civil Harks Recurrent                          740     140      740     740     740       -        -       -       -       -
Incremntal Civil Works Recurrent.                     -      82      14S     179     179       -       -        -       -       -
ICIRIF                                                -      8S      153     388     la8       -       -        -       -       -t
Civil Works Recurrent                               740     626      893     928     928       -        -       -       -       -
Base Equipnt rd Vehicles Recurrent                 6683    66S3    6683    6683    63           -       -       -       -       -
Incr.wental Equipment and Vehicles Recurrent       1690    3380    4739    5130    5130        -       -        -       -       -
Incremental Equipmnt and Vehicles Recurrent        1775    3549    4976    5386    5386        -       -        -       -       -
Equipnmnt and Vehicles Recurrent                   8458   10232   11659   12069   12069         -       -       -       -       -
Recurrent Costs (Mangrovel                        23257   2F!70   28090   29262   29926        -        -       -       -       -
Total Costs (Manrowvl
Total Costs                                       72607   S6105   65528   68603   54501    7392    4287    2123    1182    1182
Not Benfits
NUIIF                                            -72607  -66105  -65528  -68603  -54501   -7392   -4287   -2123   -1182  217774  21895S
May 10. 1985 20 57
Internal Rates of Return of Net Straws
Net Benefits   13. us
SWITCHING VALUES AT 127
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STRES                  VALUE         VALUE        CHANGE
9EIIIF            24. 624. 94   246. 039. 35     -13. 56
CIF               245 039. 35   284. 24. 94       IS. 685



*0  .0                           .0                           *a~v== =:    = .0
*       - .                 .--lO             7     - *                  .asflml 
--- -- -- --                                                                . ..           . ..
i2 !        -2=- 
-M    --- ------              -      - -------. 
..     .  ..........
..   . ........              ......                                        .
-  a              ..         ... . %-a
C~~~~~~~Z; 
a..  a.     aS..         ... . ... . .f..
--  a.. aa                no        aanaaeeanan2-
-o  a.               n.On..        ..    ..               .     a..   n
.    a...   ............aa                                     o          .       a     a.
..                 .... ...........0   *. a                                                                a 
.n   a..... .. .. ..                                  .an....a                                    a..a  a_. .na
.. .. a...a.a.a....a
as a~                                                                              C        ast              a
Z   8TV-..
s0             -.-                                                                -



.......................
INtDUI1R14  P14ISIII*IIS COSI AND IENiIT StIEUS FOR FINANCIAl. ANALYSIS
......................................................................
Ilhouuands of Iekasl
....................
22       23       24       is        26       21       26       33        30       31       32        33       34   35-33        40        41       42       43        44
......................................................................................................................................................  ........  .  .................................. . 
Produtlor 1000 cu. til
......................
Produollon of IndustrIal Fuelwood                 10934       5S2      658    31J9      S13J    5315    7114                   174      411      593      7t9       013              1252      1315    2033      2431    21t5
Prodwtion of Irdusteial Pelers
Production of Induitrlel Poles                     4104       473      541                                                     933     1195     145      1175    2035               1252      16J     2033     2431     2165
Produoilon of Industrial Sauloges                  6254       12       141                                 t -3 6 2    15                        512    1oll    1222               10260    13021 1'215   11452    222l3
Pe'lduct on of Irduutrisl Wood                    21322      l181     1354    3156      1130      1311     1314               1573    2360      2610     3312    4010          -    2624    16361   20341   24321   21651
Value of Irdustrlel fulsoood                      61604     3432      4005    1134  J30134   31sie   42544                   2244    2562       3118    4214    4313                1792      Vl10    12195    14556   16710
Value of Peelers ,                                              *         .        .        .        .1.5.  .                                       .
Value of Industrial Poles                        12320    14110    16230                   2*05                                       311    44110   132         1050 60340   43010   603                       123      6211
Value of Inrduslrlel 1Selog                      171046    5040    1500                                                     2 *  2520   23720   31650   42UCO   4850               410400  523640  651000  110160   311540
Benefits                                         351110   22122   26036    131J4   14634   31635   41644                    12844      74312   53155   100214  114508              451612  352100  124188  515871  331820
Investmenl Costs
Establl;;mnt Cosls Ilaborl                         3465    31S0       3150    3110      2315      2127     241      2010    2 010    2010    J010        1070    2010    2010    2070          1010     14715    102       167
CIESJLIF                                           3610    3305       3308    330       31317    2563    2160    2114    2114    2114    2114    2174    .2174              2174    2174       1539     1550     IllS       531
EstaWlb 1tht Costs  llaterialuI                                 -             -
CESINIF                                                *        *        *         *                                                                                                                       -   
Establslhment Coslr lIndusIriall                   3610    3305       J305     J305     3131    2563    2560    2114    2174    2174    2114             211i      2174     2174    2114       1    533  1130    11l        5V53
CIwil Works
Road Construction  llnd'teitill
EqulpnI and Vehicles
Resource Hanag_nt                                                                                    *                           *
Investmat Costs lirdustriall                       3170    3306       3305     3305     J131    2163    2S10    2114    2174    2114            2114    2174    2114        2174    2174       1633     1550     1111       9S1
total Costs llndustrlall
........................
late Salaries
lncr_ntel Salaries
Salarles                                                        -        *         .        *        .         *        .
ase Uniform  and Overhead Coits                        -                 .                                                       .        .         .                           .        .
Incr_nlel Unif.res ard Overhead Costs
Uniforms and Ovehead Costs
late Civil Maorkis Rcrronl r-                                                                                           .        .
Incrmenlel Clvil marks Ieurrent
ICIURIF                                                                                              ---
Bass Equlmnt anrd Vehiales   ecuwrernt
Incrental Equipnt and
Vehicles Recurrent
Eqult erd Vehleo  Recurrent  nl
lecurrent Coats lIndustriall
Total Coslt llnduemriell
........................
Total Coils                                        3610    330        330     930       3121      2663      150    214       211        74      214      2114      2114     2114     2114      1533     1110     tIll      331
Not   enftts
.......... .........
ollf                                             356100    13411    22131    15f21   21631   21033   4254   -2114   30611   61213   81916   1 8041  112531   -2114  414311 15060   122636  564161  111221
Nh US



-54-
ANME 5
Table 2
Page 3
Internal Rates of Return of Net Str
Net Benefits 17,49S
SWITCHING VALUES AT 122
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE
STREA                  VALUE         VALUE        CHANGE
SENIF             497. 860. 49   277, 287. 15     -44. 302
Cl                277. 287. 15  497. 860.49       79.551
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NPV AS A 2
PRESENT             OF PRESENT           INTERIAL
VALUE AT OCC        COSTS AT OCC         RATE Of
TEST CASES    TEST CAST VARIATIONS                OF 12.001            OF  2. 002          RETURI
UBSE CASE                                              220573.3               79. 5%           17.5
TEST CASE  I BENIF              UP   1O0              270359.4                9. 52            18.5S
TEST CASE  2  BERIF             UP   151              295252.4               IOS. 5S           19. O
TEST CASE  3  REIIF             UP   201              320145.4               tl5.51            19.41



-55-
ANNEX 5
Table 3
BSMtUGIESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
4GGREGaTE FINANCIAt RArFE OF RETURN CALCUtATION FOR PROJECT
tlhousands of Takasl
1       2        3       4        5        6       7        8        9      10       11       12      13
NeAMFORF  -129512 -133118 -134460 -140638 -126903  -29571    8438   48639   53836  290558  253900  367041  356623
14      is       i5       17      la       19      20       21       22      23       24       25
NBDNFORF    423247  269990  312795    1931  172565  196133  281883  298753  356100   19415   22731   15827
26      27       28       29      30       3t       32      33       34   35-39       40       41      42       43       44
NEANFORF    27697   29033   45264   -2174   50671   65259   81615   98041  112635   -2174  454379  580601  722638  864761  991225
May 10. 1985  20: 58
Internal Rates of Return of Net Stream
Net Benef its   16.10



-56-
ANNEX 5
BANGLADESH                     Table 4
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Price of Logs
US$ m 3        Tk/ft3
Wholesale Price of Logs, Chittagong-              i 5            108a
Less Quality Adjustment (33%)                                     36
72
Less
Transport Costs from Chittagong                    133/
Extraction Costs                                   17/           30
42
-'Based on IBRD Price Forecast for 1995 in 1984 constant prices for
wholesale price of lauan logs in Japan, which is used as the
indicator price in the Asia-Oceania region.
2/
-/Conversion = .72.
- Adjusted by SCF - .83.
Economic Price of Fuelwood
Price of Kerosene F.O.B. Singapore = USS 33 per barrel-/
Freight, Insurance, Processing,
Local Costs, Profit @ 50% F.O.B. = USS 16.50
USS 49.50 per barrel
Taka Equivalent Cost                = Tk 7.57/liter
Market Price                        = Tk 7.37/liter
Conversion Factor for Kerosene           7      1.03
Assume Fuelwood Substitutes for 80% Kerosene and 20% for Other Materials
Weighted Conversion Factor          =.986,
I/  barrel = 45 gallons = 170 liters.
2 Weighted conversion factor = (1.03 x .8) e (.83 x .2).



_57r
ANNEX  5
Table 5
BANGLADESH                                       Ptage 
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
MANGROvE AFFORESTATION COST AND BENEFiT STREAMS FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
(Thousands of Takas)
1       2        3       4        5       6        7        °       9       10   11-14
PRODUCTION
Production ot Keora Fueluood             -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -   53018   53918
Production of Baen Fueluood              -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -     821      821
Production of Mangrove Fuelwood          -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -   54739   54739
BENEFITS
Value of Hangrove Fuelsood               -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -  21855   218956
COSTS
Investment Costs (Manarave)          26932   22624   22007   16795   12626    4600    2664    1316         733      733        -
Recurrent Costs (Mangrove)           20631   22986   24970   25996   26547          -        -       -        -       -        -
Hangrove Research                     3455    2318      954      954    1226        -       -        -        -       -        -
Resource Hanasement                   3522    2475    1795    7456    2598          -       -        -        -       -        -
Total Costs (Mangrove)               54540   50402   49734   53200   4Y997    4600    2664    1316          733     733        -
NET BENEFITS
Net Benefits (Manrrove)             -54540  -50402  -49734  -53200  -42997   -4600   -2664   -1316    -733  218223  213956
March 25i 1985 17:57
Internal Rates of Return of Net Streams
Net Benefits            17.36Z
SVITCHING 'JALUES AT 12%
APPRAISAL    SUITCHITN     PERCENTAGE
STREAM                  UALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
BENHE              284,624.94   187,050.81         -34.28%
CHE                187,050.81   284,624.94          52.16Z



-58-
ANNEX 5
Table 5
Page 2
SENSITIVITY TESTS
NrV AS A Z
PRESENT              OF PRESENT           INTERNAL
VALUE AT OCC         COSTS AT OCC         RATE OF
TEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                  OF 12.00Z            OF 12.00Z             RETURN
BASE CASE                                                97574.1                 52.2,.           17.4%
TEST CASE  1  BENHE              DOWN 10%l               69111.6                 36.9Z            16.0%
TEST CASE  2  BENHE              DOWN 20%.               40649.1                 21-.7            14.5X
TEST CASE  3  BENHE              DOWN 3OZ                12186.,                  6.5!            12.8Z
TEST CASE  4  CME                UP   lO%                78869.1                 38.3Z            16.l%
TEST CASE  5  CHE                UP   20%                60164.0                 26.8Z            15.0!
TEST CASE  6  CHE                UP   30%                41458.9                 17.0Z            14.0X
TEST CASE  7  BENIE              DOWN 10%
CHE               UP   i0,'               50456.6                 24.5%            14.EZ
TEST CASE  8  BENNE              DOWN '20
CHE               UP   20i                 3239.0                  1.42            12.2'
TEST CASE  9  BENIE              DOWN 30%
CHE               UP   307.              -43928.6                -i8.1, Z.5%
TEST CASE 10  BENIE              LAB    1 YEARS
CHE               UP   10%                48373.5                 23.5%            14.4Z
TEST CASE 11  BENIE              LAB   2- YEARS
CHE               UP  20%                  2440.3                  1.1!            12.1!



SECOND FORESTR? PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL PLANIAIIONS COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS FOE ECONOMIC ANAITSIS
IThougands of lOakel
I        2        3        4        1         6        I        S        I        10       II       II        13       14       Is       Is        1i       la       19       20        21
PRODUCTION  (000 cu.f,
Production of InrdustIria IsIuelwood            -        --                       469       990    398?      7164      1820    9711    2061    4299        928?    8139       0290   12413        487    2012    9312       7900      7859
Production of Industrial Pesters                -        -        .                                           256       339      492      101     2590    2223    3228        499?     5045         -         -        - 
Product ion of Industrial Poles                 -                                                                                                   563      574      6l0      025      lOll      114    2292    2392        3330     3994
Production of Industrial Sewloge                --                          -        -                                                              159      192      271      284      325         -     3972     3535    9200    9471
Production of Industrial Loge                   -        -        -                                    -      258       339      402      70;     3402    2295       4309     9556     544?       124    9864    9989    8930    2023
Production of Industrial Mood                                                     455lB     990    3987      7790    8199    10293    2162        1651    8216    12448    19019    18920         oi1    1511    11301    13030    15894
BEREFt(IS
V$ue of Industrial Fuelwood                     -        --                      2790      3300   23922   44154   46920   959565   12366   29954   31722   45534    51740   74535                29222   12072   31512   49000   41190
Value of Loge                                                                                               1  - 12012    14235   20584   29442   142884  125525   180415  243915  270774    9208  245218  2511128  3952k6  275215
eneFfits                                        -        -         -        -    2790a    3300'  23922   95195   61195    19230   41508   158435  191250  229512  299715  3495612                5130  2958360  252410  403250  426405
COSTS
Investment Coats  llrdustriall             21339   34415   38539    39049   40142    15121    5942           335?     3357      335?     3381    3357    3339        3214     3189     3050    2921    2921    2191    2593           2412
Recurrent Costs  (Industriell               1900    0215    10497    10932   1117?                                                               -             - - - --           .        .-                 .--
Resource Managesant                        10050      1133      999      099      2999        -         .        -        -        -         .        -                                                         
late   Coats  llndustrletil                44699   90523   49811   91030   92915    15121           5942    3357       3387    3357    3351       3351      3331     3274     3151    3050    2121    2921    2791    2699            2472
NET BENEFITS
Met Benefitsa tlndlustriall               -44599  -10523  -49811  -91030  -90125  -1252?    16950   13409   91171   19543   38421  181091  1939215  226935  229893  342992    9209  215439  268019  100501  4231335
22       23       34        25       2o       27       25        29       30       31       32        33       34  35-30          40       41       42        43       44
PRODUCTION 1000 Cu. ft. I
Production of industrial Fuelvood          10934       952      618     3159     9139      9315     7974         -      314      41?      193       102      513         -    125       1653     2033     2431    2159
Production of Industrial Peeters-
Production of Industrial Poles              4104       473      941         --                                          936     1195     1451    17175    2039                 1252,    1539     2033     2431    2759
Production of Industrial Saslogs            5254       125      1495                                                    953      715      592      1067     1222        - 10260    13091    15219    19411   22259
Production of Industrial Logs              W0388      599       585         -        -        -         -        -     1499     1913    2377      2543    3217          - 11942    14115   18305   21590   29074
Production of Industrial Mood              211322     lISt     1354    3159      9139    5315    1974            -     1573    2390    2910    3992    4010              - 12524    15351   20341   24321   218599
BENEFITS
Value of Industrial Fuelsood               659504    3492      4008    19134   30834   31116   42544             -     2244    2552    3955        4294    4575               7592    9510   12108    141586    15710
Value of Logs                             436296   291158   25512           -        -                  -        - 52995    50345   99534  113406  135734                   4 41474  518492  188935  919350 1092105
Benef its                                 50l190Q   28650   32520    19134   30534   31596   41544               - 69202   53205   103392   123560   141152              -492495   525302  7811134  923965 1059815
COSTS
Invesitment Coals  llndustrlall             2279     2011    2011    2091         1941     1771     1600     1348      1345     1345     1245     1345      1345     9348     1348      1175      0II      591      359
Recurrent Costa  lndustrlsIl                                                -                                             -..                                             
Resource Nsnagsmnt-                                                         .        .         .        .        .        .         .        --                                                                        -
Total Costa  llnduetriell                   2219     2091      2091     2051      1949     1775     1oc0     1345      1348     1348     1345      1345     1345     1346     1345      IlIS      051      691       313
NET SENEFITS
Net Benefits  llnkdustriell               4199252    215999   30769    11053   25559    30121   48244   -1348   53894    15160  102044  122312  140224   -1341  491105  521124  150113  033211 1059449                         00'1
3::2   :sstssit   sasss25s53.u   siiiitZl   iit -51221tussi  ss...                                             ttstt...i.. .                  us......iSitn5155                          Id
... .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. ... .. ..



SENISITIVITY TESTS
Internal Rates of Return of Not Streams                                          SENSITIVITY::: TE
NPV AS A 1
Net  Benefits                                                                                                                         PRESENT               OF PRESENT           INTERAL
VALUE AT OCC         COSTS AT OCC         RATE OF
TEST CRSES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                 Oa 1i.00s             Or 12.001             RETURn
SWITCHING VALUES AT 121
Iss..ms.28..333.:.*I::B EASE CASE                                                                                       310050.5                139. 41          22. 21
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE                       TEST CASE  I GENIE               DOW1  lOt               322000.2               IS.41             21.0S
STREAM                  VALUE         VALUE         CHANGE
TEST CASE  2  SENIE              IIIN 201                263919.9               131.5s            It.II
SENIE              550 602. 59   200. 722. 13       -65. 441
TEST CASE  3  GENIE              DOM  301               205Ugi.7                102.51            16. 41
CIE                200.*22. 13   560.602.S9         169. 351
TEST CASE  4  CIE                UP   101                360006.2               153.11            21.15
TEST CASE  5  CIE                UP   201                339935.0               141.11            20.21
TEST CASE  5  CIE                UP   301               319663.6                122.61            1. 4S
TEST CASE  7  SENIE              DOWN 10O
CIE               UP   lOt               301925.0                136.7I            20.01
TEST CASE  6  GENIE               OWN 20t
CIE               UP   202               223715.5                 92. 9S           17. 91
TEST CASE  9  GENIE              DOWN 301
CIE               UP   301                145623.0                55.61            15. 91                   0
TEST CASE 10  GENIE              LAG    I YEARS
CIE               UP   101               291779.4                134.91            13.31
TEST CASE 11  GENIE              LAG    2 YEARS
CIE               UP   201               222145.7                 92.21            17. 0o
lb 0
0n



SUtGIODISN
SECOII FORESTRT fROJCT
Total Project Cost and B          It  Stram  tor laonate  Stlysis
lthouands of laksal
. ........................ ....    .. ..... .. ........... ................. ........... ............... ................... ................................ ....... .............. .... .... _................... ........... .................. ............... __.. _..__
I        2         3         4         5         6         7         6         3        tO        It        to       1I        I         1   11  IB          17        Is        to        20        21        22
............... ........................ .... .... .... ..... *............. ..................... ,................ .............. ..................... _. ..... .. ... ..... ............................ ..... ... ...... ........ _...... .... _.. __..
PRlODUCTION !000 CiF. I.'
Prodkct ton of Mangrove Fuelsood                           -                            -                                            531S-  -  -  -   94139  S39  419411U 9 54713           -
Production of Irdustrial Ioed                    -              -              -      451       190      395  11    50      5SIS      10293     252       71651     5211    12448    19092    15920          all      1515    11301    10320    16114    21322
Total Production of Wood                                   -           -              465      5S0       3951      7750     5159    64992   11901    62400    53011    STIS?    1SO19            1U710        1it     1171    1101    1e030         814    21322
BINEFITS
Value of Wood                                         -         -              -    210        3304    23922   1sG1    61151    21            250754  287394  31S2IS   445716    299115   345512            £130  28t3K   2834t0   4022K   425406  1S015f
COSTS
Total Costs  (Mangrovel                    54940    50402    492734    53200    42997          4500      2554      131t       732       713
Total Costs  (industrial)                  44593    10523    48t11   11020    12911           16121      5142      3251      3361     3351      325?      331 37 3s           3274      31n5      3200      2321      212       27St      2t59      2412      2215
total Project Costs                         99432   101226   29941   104220   91511    20721             3505      4103      Alit     4119      335?      2351       333      3274      3155      3050      2921      2321      2191      26n9      2472      2219
llt  SINEF IIS
............
Not Benefits  (Nengrovul                   -14940   -10402   -49134  -53200   -42917    -4500    -2584    -131S              -733  21S223  21SS59   21SJ96   2tSS   21195S                                                -         -
Net Benfits  l(Indutriall                  -44593   -9052   -49511  -51030   -50128   -t1n21    15950   53409    S1771               75S43    35421   11051    113921   2253125  29533  342552    592               291439  250511  400601  423931   4H21s
lotal Nt BefIts                            -11439 -101225   -99149 -104230   -93125   -11425    14315   12013   S1O13   294057   2573??  324U07  372561  449494  291S33  342512                             120    211439  2513111    400401   421235   4Hnhs
..  ............................................................... .................. ....................... .... ,................................. .............................................. ...................... I
23       24        25        26        27        25        29        30        31        32        33        34   35-39          40        41        42        43        44                                    aF
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .......... .... ................  ...................... ............................................. ........ ............ .................... .................................. ............ ................... ....................I
PRtICT ION l 000 cii ft. I
._..............
Production of Mangrove FuEloood                                      -                                      -                        -         -                        -         -         -         -         -         -
Production of Industrial Wood                1161      1354       15S9    1t13       5311      1974          -     1573      2390     2310      3552      4070          -    12524   ISJt    20341    24321    21951
Total Production of Wood                     lltl      1354      3159      1139      5315      7974          -     1513      2390     2310      3152      4070          -    1224    15361   20341    24321    21135
*EIEFITS
Vlue of Wood                                25550    32520    19134    30534   31596    47644                -    51202    6208   t03212   (23150   141t12             4- 2456  625202  151134    333151 1059515
COSTS
Tetal Costs  (langrovel
Total Costs  (Industrial)                    2051      2051      2011      1345 3    119       (800      1341      1341      1341      1346      1345      1345     1345      1345      1115       Sol        Sol      3M
Total Project Costs                          2011      2011      2011      1941      ills      IO        1345      1348      1345      1345      1341      1345       345      1345      tillS       61      63        3K
NET BENEFITS
Net Benefits  (angrovel                          -         -         -         -         -                   -         -
Net   enfits  llndustriell                  25939    30753       10OU     258U9    30121    43244        1345    65364    5165O   102044   122312   140324    -1345   431108   621124  170113  333217  1O0443
Total Net Beef1ts                           26199    30169    17063    2163S   30121    45244    -1348    63614    61550   102044   122312   140324    -134£   41118   927114  150173   13321S 1011441
1-'
-.djUl



SEKSIIIVITY TElST
Internal Rates of Return of Not Streams                                                                                                                         In aS * :
Total  Net  Benefits  20.27%                                                                                                                     PVE4ENT                or OESEN1S T OCTE OF
TEST CASES    TEST CASE VARIATIONS                    OF 12.001             OF 12.001             RETUlR
SWITCHING VALUES AT 121                                         BASE CASE                                                  471754.5                 123.21            20.32
APPRAISAL    SWITCHING    PERCENTAGE                        TEST CASE  I  BSE                  OHN IoS                 3291111.8               100.9S             19.11
STREAM                   VALUE          VALUE         CHANGE                       TEST CASE  2  BSE                  DWI  20S                304569.1                  78.51            17.81
SHE                 865 427.53   387. 772.94         -55. I9                       TEST CASE  3  SHE                  DOWI 302                218026.3                  St 21             16. 41
CIE                 387 772.94   853427.52            123. 165                     TEST CASE  4  CIE                  UP   103                438877. 3                102.91             19. 21
TEST CASE  5  CTE                 UP   201                 400100.0                 65 ox             18.21
TEST CASE  6  CIE                 UP   301                 351322.7                 71.71             27.41
TEST CASE  7  SHE                 OWHN 101
CTE               UP   lo0                 352334.5                 82. n             28.01
TEST CASE  8  SNE                 nate 20t
CIE                UP   201                227014.5                   A. aS            Is.91
TEST CASE  9  SHE                 DOHN 301                                                                                    od
CTE               UP   301                 10194.5                 20.21             13. 71                  N
TEST CASE 10  SHE                 EAG     I TEARS
CTE               UP   201                 346152.9                 81.21             17. 41
TEST CASE 11  BSE                 LAG    2 YEARS
CTE               UP   202                 224588.0                  48. 32           15.21
%JUI



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Deparment - Organizationol Chart
Ohiecla (C.F)  Ohiecici Fcte~~~~~t  Wochiefngnsolans
|od Fo(e0sh
[ D.C,C, D .vokIxnAnt    .t                      DCCC Faost                                       A
& plorno      }        Pangn                  Extnion
dmnlstration &  kl
|Drcht (C.F )|   ;    l a   ||Woiking Plans|
FaedCdo0         dot Svvel       IVoNornga Unit                                                         
_              AC.C lechnicdACCCC.TExtnlccg              AC C. DeloptI,          AC.C. Gwwctd              AC.C.
Management & Fb,ng                           Poornnhg & EvtuoftIn     Dwocilon &            Esthaishmwnt.
& WHMd  Sectu                                 sectons          Accounts Sections    &Xdet & At  Sctins
C.F. Rongarictl          C.F. Eastern CiCe.       C F. Centrat ChCk    C.F. Sco  Crle C.F. Cjse Cic C.F. antion Chicle
Chcice                 Chittaongw                  Dhk                   .. ootCcl               ..Jsm kc                CF lnofo  k
CH"o ong Hill VFacts      Cox's Ba DM*on          Sy0ht Division             Dlnajguj DviWon    |     Kushnto      n ble nblon |   |  Jr  Y47
Nofth DMsion              Chittaoong DMsion       Conilb DOMslon            Rongpur DMon      |       Dson                   Coastol Altosation
Chttgong HUI Trocts                                                                                   Forkx Etrdo   I           rkd DMilon
bouth DMon                U.SF. Division          Dhoklo Division            Bo0ga Extenlson          Diot
6:1,KA                                            o IDhon                                    fi    Coassht Aholtion 
U IF. DiMsion                                     Dhaka Extension                                     JNa  ExtensIon          PatudXli D|
Rongmotl                  PulIp Wood              DM506                     ____NElrdo                 ivso
Bondarn DMM106 |1                                                                                  Coasta Attaton
ern                                              g MOND@idoh DM&                              |         WnaExtension             Chmtogorg Dh~
Conhtol Division          'Jtlilzation Division                              P ZUbna Exbtebnsion DDlMn0I
CeoagDl5DMs16n           |Dtvision DMsr Tal D iviionlon
lpWood                                            NotIonal Botanical                                                         Nko ll            |
rit eO-2;726
aGo
D~0%



BANGLADESH
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
ACTMIIE | MONTH |JI F|M|A|M|J I JA IAS|O|N|D J |F |M| AIM| Jl JIA| SON|D  FM A|M J          D J                                   NA ||I   NAM  lJ|!SON|CFMS;G;TEH FMT 
DroM Prqoci 0 ivfcf                                                                                                               1011 li 1    4   i
"AW 10; ftw dfmo
o/ooj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                                                               lo  22
- onlwV - Mongtovos
- Ind Plonl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I
'-' Tononwo  al                                                                                                                       ~1
1010~~~~~~~~~~~~



-65-
Annex 7
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Documents in Proiect File
Item
1      Identification Report (Forestry Sector Paper)
2      Preparation Report
3      Bangladesh Forest Industries Development Corporation Studies
(a) Wood Processing Component
(b) Transport
(c) Financial Structure and Performance Analysis
(d) Market Survey for Logs and Sawn Timber
(e) Overview of Management Pattern
4      Cost Tables
5      Nurseries and Plantation Establishment and Management Cost
6      Production and Yield
7      Financial and Economic Analyses
8      Working Papers
(a) Plantations
gb) Education and Training
Cc) Socio-economic Aspects
gd) Procurement Pror,edures
Ce) Project Proforma (PP) Approval Procedures
(f) Resource Nanagement Program



IERD 18921
p 1        )                ~~~~~~Luxmipur                                         MGA*
0                                                                                                                                                                 I v  INDIA
\ . B~~~~~~~ANGiADEIE                                                                 I                                                  5t' iag
*SATKHlPX                       *w IVRE
\~~eHo~A     ~~          8and'ripo     \        \        K        _
-HA1>            "jIiurniIr            I H--LI_               .          i                                     COX SAH
INDIA                                                                Oargt uqi _a                                                                                          ;
Bay        of      Bengal                              (.           . ,
B A N GLADESH 
£ ~~~~~ ~SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Natural mangrove area                                    CinB                        %                
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Mangrove plantation                                                                                            COX'S BAZAR(
Acareted land
Forest reserves (within the Project area)
U     Bangladesh Porest Research InstituteBU M
A    Forest College                                                                             URMA
b t      df t                                   S    Chittagong University
-Upazila boundaries
0.0~  ~~~~~~~~~--    District boundaries                                                                                                           2
(~ ~ ~ ~~~~~o                                                                International boundarisa
MA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~M    



