REDIT NUMBER 1634 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Forestry Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               ,19857


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1634 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    eCd,A-//                   198T, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called the UNDP) a grant (the
UNDP Grant) in an amount of $4,300,000 equivalent to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the UNDP Project Document) to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02.   Unless the  context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "FD" means the Forest Department within the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) "Project Area" means the area comprising the four
coastal forestry divisions of Barisal, Chittagong, Noakhali and
Patuakhali, the Sylhet forestry division in the Northeast and the
Chittagong and Cox's Bazar forestry divisions in the Southeast;


﻿-2-
(c)  "Bangladesh Bank" means the central bank of Bangladesh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order
No. 127 of 1972);
(d) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(e)  "Fiscal   Year"  means   the  Borrower's   fiscal  year
commencing July 1 and ending June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty seven million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 27,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.     The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04, (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to timE   The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-3-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without,
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in.
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitnent charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1996, and ending October 15,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.


﻿-4-
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
(c) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate fznding will be
provided at all times to the Institute of Forestry.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 5 -
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at  least  one   year  after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable   the   Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that, subject to paragraph (b) of this Section the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP Grant made
to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.


﻿-6-
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
UNDP Project Document (other than, if applicable, the effective-
ness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the Borrower has made arrangements, satisfactory to the
Association, for FD to retain control over lands under mangrove
plantations established under the Project until the maturity of
said plantations;
(c) a Coordinating Committee has been established in accor-
dance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d) consultants have been appointed by the Borrower to
prepare architectural designs for the expansion of the Institute
of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School under
Part E of the Project; and
(e) the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the
Project have been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 3.01 (c) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the


﻿-7-
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on tht date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreelbant to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
7
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President-
South Asia


﻿-9 -
SCHEDUIS 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds rf the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works               4,100,000         95%
(2) Vehicles and              2,100,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                  expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Plantation                                  100% of foreign
establishment                              expenditures and
95% of local
expenditures
(a) mangrove plan-       5,900,000
tations
(b) industrial plan-     6,100,000
than fuelwood
(c) fuelwood             2,000,000
(4) Maintenance               2,800,000         Amounts specified
of existing                                in Part A of the
plantations                                Annex to this
Schedule


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Staff salaries           2,300,000          Amounts specified
and operating                               in Part B of the
costs                                       the Annex to this
Schedule
(6)  Unallocated               1,800,000
TOTAL              27,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 1,000,000, may be made in respect of Category (3) on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after December 1, 1984; (b) payments made for expenditures under
Category (1), unless and until architectural designs satisfactory
to the Association have been completed for the expansion of the
Institute of Forestry, the Forest College and the Forest School
under Part E of the Project, and (c) payments made for expendi-
tures in respect of Category (3) (c) until the Association has
notified the Borrower that the selection of locations for fuel-
wood plantations during the first year of such plantation
programs, based on the findings of the socio-economic study
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, is
acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 11 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
PART A:
1.   Disbursements  in   respect  of  maintenance   of  existing
plantations shall be made as follows:
% of Expenditures
to be Financed until
all Disbursements
under Category 4
reach the Aggregate
Amount Opposite to                Aggregate Amount in
each Percentage                       SDRs
90%                               700,000
70%                             1,400,000
50%                             2,100,000
30%                             2,800,000
2.   Disbursements shall be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures certified by the Chief Conservator of Forests or his
designate.
PART B:
1.   Disbursements in respect of incremental staff salaries,
allowances and other operating costs under the Project shall be
made as follows:
%                   of                   Expenditures
o be Financed until
All Disbursements
under Category 5
reach the Aggregate
Amount Opposite to              Aggregate Amount in
each Percentage                       SDRs
90%                               560,000
70%                             1,200,000
50%                             1,800,000
30%                             2,300,000
2.   Disbursements shall be made on the basis of statements of
expenditures certified by the Chief Conservator of Forests or his
designate.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase the supply of
forest products by improving the productivity of natural forests
and expanding the existing plantation programs in the Project
Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Establishment of about 100,000 acres of mangrove plantations
and maintenance of about 200,000 acres of existing plan-
tations.
Part B:
Establishment   of  about   58,000   acres   of  industrial
plantations and maintenance of about 70,000 acres of
existing plantations.
Part C:
Development of management capability by providing technical
assistance to establish Resource Management Systems for man-
grove plantations and for forest resources in the forestry
divisions of Chittagong, Cox's Bazar and Sylhet.
Part D:
Carrying out a mangrove afforestation research program.
Part E:
Development of institutional capability by improving and
expanding  national   forestry  education   facilities  and
training of forestry personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1990.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A. International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided, however, that nursery
and vehicle sheds may be constructed through force account.
2.   Plantation activities may be carried out through force
account.
3.   Vehicles (including boats) and outboard engines may be
procured on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Small items of field and teaching equipment, books and
journals, up to an aggregate amount of $800,000 equivalent, may
be procured through prudent shopping on the basis of at least
three price quotations from different sources.
Part D. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 14 -
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   For purposes of assisting the Ministry of Land Administra-
tion and Land Reform in defining priorities for its program of
surveying newly accredited land and to address problems of land
allocation, the Borrower shall establish a Coordinating Committee
with powers, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   The Borrower shall carry out the mangrove afforestation
research program under Part D of the Project in accordance with a
time schedule and implementation procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
3.   The Borrower shall, by June 1, 1986, furnish to the Asso-
ciation for its comments the findings of the socio-economic
studies for mangrove plantations and for fuelwood plantations to
be carried out under the Project.
4.   The Borrower shall: (a) by June 1, 1986, furnish to the
Association for its comments the draft management plans for the
industrial plantations program; and (b) by December 31, 1986
furnish to the Association the complete management plans for the
mangrove and industrial plantation programs.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) as set forth in the table in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
provided, however, that expenditures in respect of Categories (1)
and (3) (c) will become eligible expenditures only after the
Borrower has complied with paragraph 3 (b) and 3 (c) of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, respectively; and
(c) the   term   "Authorized  Allocation" means   an   amount
equivalent to SDR 2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit


﻿- 17 -
into the Special Account such amounts as ohall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association   and  of   any   outstanding  special
commitment   entered  into   by   the  Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such


﻿- 18 -
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
Jate of suc. notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
4. (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible   or  justified.   Unless  otherwise   agreed   by  the
Association, no further deposit by the Association into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of 4 A      ,
198
FOR SECRETARY


