                                              Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 31447-CHA




                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ON A

                                           PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF US$lOO.O MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                FOR A

                      POOR RURALCOMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                              May 25,2005




Rural Development and Natural ResourcesSector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region




T h ~ document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
      s
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective M a y 19,2005)

                                 Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB) or Yuan (Y)
                                         Y1.0 = US$0.12
                                        USS1.0 = Y8.27

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                         July 1 -- June 30

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACWF      All China Women's Federation
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
cccc       China Cross-Cultural Consulting Center
CMS        Cooperative Medical System
CDPF       China Disabled PeoplesFederation
CLG        Central Liaison Group
CPMO       County PMO
DFID       Department for International Development
EA-EMP     Environmental Assessment-Environmental Management Plan
E h D P    EthnicMinority Development Plan
FCPMC      Foreign Capital Project Management Center
HI         Handicap International
BRD        Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
MOF        Ministry of Finance
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NBS        National Bureau of Statistics
O&M        Operation andmaintenance
PHRD       Japan Policy and Human ResourcesDevelopment Fund
PIM        Project Implementation Manual
P M        ParticipationManual
PLG        Project Leading Group
PM&E       Participatory M&E
PMO        Project Management Office
PP         Participatory Planning
PPA        Participatory Poverty Assessment
PPMO       Provincial Project Management Office
PRCDP      Poor Rural Communities Development Project
QBPRP      Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project
SWPRP      SouthwestPoverty Reduction Project
TPWS       Township Project Work Station
VDP        Village Development Plan
VPEG       Village Project ExecutionGroup
VPP        Village Participatory Plan

                                Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAF'VP
                   Country ManagerDirector:        David R. Dollar, EACCF
                               Sector Director:    Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Alan L.Piazza, EASRD

                                                                     FOROFFlCIAL USEONLY
                                                   CHINA
                       POORRURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                 CONTENTS




    A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

       1. Project development objective                                                      3
       2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

    B. Strategic Context

       1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
       3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  7

    C. Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                  8
       2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supported by the project                       15
       3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
       4. Institutional andimplementationarrangements                                        16

    D.ProjectRationale

       1. Project alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                            17
       2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       19
       3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                                  19
       4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                   20
       5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        20

    E. Summary Project Analysis

       1. Economic                                                                           21
       2. Financial                                                                          21
       3. Technical                                                                          22
       4. Institutional                                                                      22
       5. Environmental                                                                      24
       6. Social                                                                             26
       7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                  28

    F. Sustainability and Risks

       1. Sustainability                                                                     29

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

  2. Critical risks                                                                   30
  3. Possiblecontroversial aspects                                                    31


G. MainLoanConditions

  1. EffectivenessCondition                                                           31
  2. Other                                                                            32

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                        33

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                          34



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       35
Annex 2: DetailedProjectDescription                                                   42
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                       54
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-EffectivenessAnalysis Summary         55
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-EamingProjectEntities, or Financial Summary    59
Annex 6: ProcurementandDisbursementArrangements                                       60
Annex 7: ProjectProcessing Schedule                                                   79
Annex 8: Documentsinthe Project File                                                  81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         86
Annex 11: Summaries of Participatory Approach and SocialAssessment                    88

                                                          CHINA
                             POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                           Project Appraisal Document
                                                East Asia andPacific Region
                                                          EASRD

late: May 25,2005                                            Team Leader: Alan L.Piazza
jector Managermirector: Mark D.Wilson                        Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Sountry Managermirector: DavidR. Dollar                      (45%), Roads andhighways (20%), Generalwater,
'roject ID: PO71094                                          sanitationand floodprotection sector (15%), Primary
,ending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)            education(lo%), Health (10%)
                                                             Theme@): Participation andcivic engagement (P), Rural
                                                             services and infrastructure (P), Other rural development
                                                             (P), Educationfor all (S), Other humandevelopment(S)


 [XI Loan        [ ] Credit       [ ] Grant        [ ] Guarantee       [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): $100.0 The UnitedKingdom's Departmentfor Intemational Development(DFID)has agreed, in
principle, to provide to the People's Republic of China(PRC) a grant not exceedingUS32.45 million (as ablend) to
reduce the effective interestrate of the IBRDloan.
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:           Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 8                                     Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first four years; 0.75%           Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 0.50%
                    thereafter.                             Payment for FEF: Capitalize from LoanProceeds

Initialchoice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
 [XI Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
 [ ] Linked to Disbursement

2onversion options: [XICurrency          [XIInterest Rate  [X]Caps/Collars:    Capitalize from LoanProceeds




Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Sanlihe Lu, Beijing, 100820, China
Contact Person: Mr.GuangyaoZhu
Tel: 86-10-68551122                    Fax: 86-10-68551125                   Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Central Liaison Group, Guangxi Autonomous Region, SichuanProvince, andYunnan Province.
ContactPerson: Mr.Ou Qingping.
Tel: 86-10-82617155                    Fax: 86-10-82617165                   Email: fcpmc@public2.bta.net,cn

IEstimated Disbursements I Bank FYIUS$mk



 Project implementation period: 2005-2010
 Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2005 Expected closing date: 12/31/2010




                                                  - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective o f the project is to improve livelihoods security and achieve sustained
participation o f the poorest ruralpeople inproject design, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation
ineighteencounties ofthethreeprojectprovinces.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

The progress towards the achievement o f the project's development objective will be monitored through a
set o f indicators which will cover: (a) the establishment andimplementation o f policies reflecting new
approachesto poverty reduction; (b) the degree o f effective participation o f community, NGOs, and civil
society throughout the whole project cycle; (c) improved access to, and use of, transport, market, drinking
water, irrigation, health and education infrastructure and services; (d) improved food security andnatural
resource managementbehavior; and (e) increasesinmarketable products, andon andoff-farm employment.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 25141-CHA (CAS)                      Dateof latestCAS discussion: 12/19/02

One of the central goals of the Bank's current CAS is to assist "the poorer anddisadvantaged people and
lagging regions through investment lending inrural development, infrastructure andsocial sectors, as
well as training." The project directly supports this CAS goal by targeting the poorest villages and the
most severely disadvantagedethnic minority groups ineighteen o f China's poorest counties with a
multisectoralpackage of assistance including improved agricultural productivity, basic infrastructure,
primary education andpublic health services, andcommunity capacity building. Many of the ethruc
minority groups which would benefit from the project have received very little internationalassistance in
the past. The project provinces and counties are all located inthe laggingregion o f western China.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. China is widely recognized for its achievementsinreducing the incidence o f absolute
poverty since the adoption of a broadprogram o f rural economic reforms beginningin 1978. The Chinese
government has a strong commitment to poverty reduction, and the scale and funding o f its poverty
reductionprogram, and the sustained dramatic reduction o f absolute poverty over the last twenty-five years
o f reform, are exemplary by any standards.

Based on the government's austereruralpoverty line (US$O.66/day o f income), official estimates indicate
that extreme poverty declined from more than 30 percent o f the ruralpopulation in 1978 to about 3 percent
by 2003, or from about 250 millionruralpoor in 1978 to 29 million in2003. Beginningin2003, the
Government adopted an additional ruralpoverty line of 882 yuan (equivalent to one thirdo f average rural
per capita income inthat year). Onthe basis o fthis somewhat less austerepoverty line, the Government
has estimated total ruralpoverty to be about 85 million people. By comparison, estimates based on an
international poverty line strongly confirm the continuing remarkable decline inpoverty incidence, but
document much greater numbers o fpoor inall years. For example, recent estimates indicate that the
proportion o f China's poor population livingbelow US$1per day o f consumptiondeclined from 64% of
total population in 1981to 17% in2001, or from 634 million in 1981to 212 millionin2001.




                                                      - 3 -

While the decline inpoverty has been striking, it appears to have beenuneven over time, across locality,
andbetween social groups. Available evidence suggests that the reductionofpoverty was greatestduring
the early-l98Os, but may have stalled during the years 1989-94 and again since 2000. Official reports
suggest that the number of poor increasedslightly in2003. Inaddition, the reduction o fpoverty was
greatest inthe coastal provinces, andit is certain that the most severeruralpoverty is now more
concentrated inthe central and, particularly, the westem provinces. Certain disadvantagedethnic minority
groups, people with disabilities, andwomen are knownto be heavily over-representedamong the poor.
Lastly, athough almost all o f China's poor reside inrural areas, there is a growing concern about the
possible emergence o f urbanpoverty.

Main Sector Issues. Evenwith this great success, China's ruralpoor still comprise a large share of global
poverty. The rural poor are heavily concentratedinnatural resource deficient mountainous areas o f the
central and westem provinces where single sector poverty reductionmeasureshave had limited sustainable
impact. Overcoming the remainingrural poverty will require innovative approaches and continued strong
support:

(a) Participatoryapproach and other innovations. Development work around the world has found that
givingstakeholders a voice inproject design, management, andevaluation improves results. The
Government recognizes the importance o f strengtheningthe participatory approach inpoverty reduction
work. Intemationally-assisted and national projects have built a body o f experience andknowledge in
participation inChina. Most o f China's achievements with participationhave beensupported by grant
finance and ledby nationalparticipation experts, conducted at relatively small scale andfocused on poverty
reductionproject identification anddesign. There is a need to consolidate work inparticipatory
implementation andmonitoring andevaluation and to ensure the quality o f a participatory approach when it
is usedat scale and facilitated by county and township stakeholders. Similarly, the Government has
identifiedthe need to better include NGOs and civil society inpoverty reductionwork. NGOs and civil
society are playing an increasing role inpoverty reduction work, and a variety o f innovative approaches
(such as the cooperation program between the more developed coastal provinces andthe poorer interior
provinces) have been adopted inrecent years. Nevertheless, it is believed that NGOs and civil society can
play a significantly greater role inChina's poverty reduction work than they do at present.
(b)Targeting. China's poverty reductionprogram and fundingis targeted to 592 nationally-designated
poor counties, and focuses on improvingaccess to assets, services andmarkets. Government estimates
indlcate that the proportion o f the ruralpoor residinginthe nationally-designated poor counties has
declinedfrom 72% in 1994 to about 60% in2000. This means that about 40% o f the ruralpoor reside
outside the poor counties andreceive very little or no central government assistance. Inaddition, since
central government assistanceto the nationally-designated poor counties is not targeted to the absolute poor
within those counties, there is a tremendous leakage of available poverty reduction funding to the nonpoor
within those counties. The effectiveness and efficiency o f available poverty reduction funding can be
significantly improved through better targeting. Inaddition to the Government's principal poverty
reductionprogram, there are various social protection schemes for the poorest households, such as the Five
Guarantees for the elderly with no alternative means o f support, and natural disaster reliefprograms. Such
social protection is important for those without labor power who require social assistanceto meet their
basic needs. However, existingreliefschemes suffer from very low coverage andbenefit level.

(c) Addressingthe poverty of ethnic minoritiesand peoplewith disabilities. Ethnic minority groups
andpeople with disabilities are knownto represent ahighly disproportionate share of the rural poor.
Ethnic minority groups make up less than9 percent o f the total population, but are believed to account for
about 40 percent of the remaining absolute poor,"       often live inthe deepest poverty. Minority
autonomous counties also account for more than 40 percent o f the nationally-designated poor counties.


                                                      - 4 -

The poorest ethnic minority groups often reside inextremely remote townships andvillages, andthe
outreach o f China's poverty reduction programto these isolated communities needs to be further
strengthened. Similarly, people with disabilities and householdswith disabled members represent a large
and risingshare o f the poor. It is believedthat people with disabilities comprise about one thirdo f the
remaining rural poor at present (that is, o f China's 29 million rural absolutepoor in2003, some 9 million
were people with disabilities). Inpoor areas, there is a mutually reinforcing relationship between poverty
anddisability: the inadequacy of effective public health measures andmedicalcare inpoor areas increases
the chances o f suffering a disabling injuryor illness, andpeople with disabilities (and their families) are
often pushedinto extreme poverty by medicalcosts related to their injury or illness andby limitedor no
employment opportunities other thanfarming.
(d)Improvingaccess to basiceducation and health services. The educational, healthandnutritional
status o f the remaining absolutepoor is deplorable. As many as halfo f the boys inmany o f China's
poorest villages and, particularly inthe most remote ethnic minority areas, an even greater share o f the girls
do not attend or complete elementary school andwill not achieve literacy. Infant mortality rates and
matemal mortality rates invery poor counties exceed 10% and 0.3% respectively (or at least 50% to 100%
greater than the national average), and are greater yet inthe poorest townships ahdvillages. Incidence o f
several infectious andendemic diseases, including tuberculosis andiodine deficiency disorders, i s
concentrated inpoor and remote areas. Roughly half of children inhouseholds at or below the absolute
poverty line are at least mildlymalnourished (stunted), andiron, vitaminA, and other micronutrient
deficiencies remain a severe problem among the poor.

(e) Improvingproductivity of mountain agriculture. The majority o f China's remaining absolute poor
reside inmountainous areas with either low rainfall, limitedarable land, or both. Inmany cases, the farm
population greatly exceeds the limitedcarrying capacity o f these uplands. InYunnan, for example, the
provincial government selected 506 key townships as the core focus o f its poverty reductionprograms
beginningin 1995. Almost all ofthese poor townships are distributedinbghmountainranges anduplands,
andinminority andborder areas. About 86 percent ofYunnan's remainingpoor in 1996reportedlyresided
inthese 506 poortownships. Achieving evensubsistencelevels of agncultural production inmanyof
mountainous areas is a difficult challenge. Existingsingle-sector strategies for mountainous area
development have tended to underestimatethe integrated nature o fthe problems andchallenges, andhave
not ledto adequate and sustainable improvements inthe well-beingo f the poor inthese areas. Instead,
there remains a need to better integrate individual sector strategiesinto a more comprehensive multisectoral
approach to promote economic development andsustainable poverty reductioninmountain areas.
Investmentpriorities withinagriculture include strengthening agncultural training and technical support
services, andproviding greater support for expanding animal husbandry, land improvement, food crop
production, tree and cash crops, and watershed management.

(f) Further strengthening basicinfrastructure. China's poverty reductionprogramhasemphasized the
establishment andconstruction o f a wide variety o f basic rural infrastructure including water resource
works, arable land, transport, power and communications. Between 1984 and 2000, for example, nearly
100 million mu(or 6.7 million ha) o f basic farmland were improvedor established inthe poor areas, and
drinkingwater systems were establishedfor more than 77 million people and 84 million head of large
animals. However, at present about 8% o fpoor area administrative villages are still not accessible by road,
more than25% o f poor area adminstrative villages are not accessible by telephone, andthere are about 21
million people inthe nationally-designatedkey poor villages with difficult or inadequatelocal supplies o f
drinkingwater. Although great strides have been achieved, further improvements inbasic infrastructure in
China's poorest areas remains an effective and rapidmeans o f improvingpeople's lives andreducing
poverty.




                                                       - 5 -

The Government's Strategy. Overcoming rural poverty remains one of the Government's top priorities,
andis consideredto be a very challenging task which will require manyyears of struggle andcontinued
financial support. The National Poverty ReductionConference heldinMay, 2001 approved the
Government's curret strategy, "China: Rural Poverty Alleviation and Development Program:
2001-2010." The new Program updatesthe principles and strategies of the previouspoverty reduction
program and introduces a number o f new initiatives including:

(a) Participatory approach and the role of NGOs and civil society. The new Program calls for
strengthening the participatory approach inpoverty reduction work and for expanding the role o fNGOs
and civil society. The Government regards "the poor as the mainbody conducting andbenefitingfrom the
poverty alleviation and development striving," andhas taken concrete steps to support empowerment at the
village level. Most importantly, a simplifiedparticipatoryapproach has beenadopted informulating
village poverty reductionplans, andnationwide all o f the more than 140,000 key poor villages have now
established such plans on the basis o f the participatory approach. Inaddition, with the support o f the
central and local governments, national social organizations, NGOs, and private enterprise are becoming
increasingly active inpoverty reduction work. Specific programs include the Glorious Cause, Spring Bud
Plan, Project Hope, the New Great Wall Plan, and a host o f local initiatives supported by smaller NGOs
andindividuals. Theseprograms andinitiatives directly assist inpoverty reduction work, andalso increase
awareness among the generalpopulation o f the need for continued poverty reductionwork.

(b) Targeting. Inorder to strengthenefficiency and outreachto the poorest villages andto reduce leakage
to the nonpoor, the new Programhas adopted an improvedtargeting system. A nationwide list o f 148,000
key poor villages has now beenestablished, and these key poor villages are now the core focus o f the
central and local governments' poverty reductionprograms. It is believedthat 83% o f the remaining rural
poor reside inthese 148,000 poor villages. Provincial and local governments are required to take a lead
role inassisting those key poor villages which are located outside o f the nationally-designated poor
counties.

(c) Assistance for ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities, and women. China's poverty
reduction program gives special emphasis to assisting poor ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities,
andwomen. For example, the five autonomous regions andthreeprovinces with large numbersofethnic
minority people have receiveda large andpreferentialshare (about 40%) o f total poverty reduction
program funding. Similarly, special programs andearmarked funding assist poor people with disabilities
and women, andthe new Programexplicitly calls for continued assistancefor these special groups.
Nevertheless, it is certain that ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities, andwomen are both heavily
over-representedamong the poor andcomprise the poorest of the poor. Outreach to the most remote and
disadvantagedethnic minority people must be strengthened. Existingprograms to assistpeople with
disabilities focus primarily on farming and animal husbandry activities, and inadequate attention has been
givento a quantitative understanding ofthe causes o fdisability, to preventivemeasures, andto
rehabilitation measures andprograms.

(d)Basic education and health. Educational progress inChina hasbeenimpressive, and the compulsory
education systemand increasedfunding for basic education has ledto significant improvements in
educational attainment throughout rural China. The new Program specifically calls for "implementing
nine-year compulsory education inthe poverty-strickenareas" by 2010. Nevertheless, these nationwide
plansmask notable imbalances inthe availability o feducational services betweenthe economically
advancedand underdeveloped areas. There is a continuing needto ensure that there are adequateresources
for the weakest parts of the education system, especially inthe poor rural areas, inorder to provide
increasedaccess to high-quality eductionto all. Similarly, the new Program calls for hospitals inmost
poor townships and clinics inmost poor villages inorder to control the main diseases inthese areas, andthe



                                                      - 6 -

Government's Tenth FiveYear Plancalls for improved sanitation andbasic health care for all by 2010.
However, while some progresshasbeenmade and some interestingexperiments with improving access to
basic healthcare services inpoor townships have beenpiloted inrecent years, there has been only minimal
andsporadic improvement inaccess to basic healthcare inthe poorest partsof China.

(e) Mountain agriculture. Cropping and livestock production, which canbe efficient andreliable ways o f
increasing income levels o f the poor and improving basic production and living conditions, remain as
priority activities to be supported by the new Program. Inaddition, the new Programcalls for increased
training, improvedextension o fpracticaltechnologies andbetter marketingservices, andstrengthening o f
the participatory process to better ensure that the poor farmers themselves are empowered to determine
what agricultural activities they invest in.
(0Rural    infrastructure. A core focus of China's poverty reduction program is assisting the poor through
development activities which improve productivity. Investment inwater conservancy, transport, power,
communications, and other basic rural infrastructure is explicitly noted as a priority area. While
investment inrural infrastructure has provento be anextremely effective means ofpoverty reduction, it is
important that (a) the level of such investmentbe lowered so that it can reach the poorest andmost remote
villages, (b) the poor are empowered to determine what infrastructure is most needed, and (c) infrastructure
activities with little or no poverty reductionimpactbe excluded.

(g) Localcapacity building. The new Program also highlights the needto strengthen capacity at the local
level. Specific measures include effective training programs for local staff, and the rotation o fhigher-level
staff to remote poor townships andvillages for fixedperiods.


3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

The project would support the Government's current "Rural Poverty Alleviation and Development
Program: 2001-2010" anddirectly address many o f the key sector issues identified inSection B.2 above.
Most importantly, the project would improve the effectiveness andquality o f the participationprocess
throughout the project cycle including preparation, implementation, and monitoring and evaluation.
Provincial government hnding and financial support from DFID and a Japanese PHRD Grant was used
duringproject preparation to upgrade the existing participation methodology, train project staff inthe
improved methodology, anddeepenthe participatory process inproject preparation ina subset o f project
villages. The improved approach will be rolledout to all project counties, townships, and villages in
several stages during the initial years ofproject implementation. Second, the project applies the new
Program's approach to improved targeting by including only nationally-designated poor villages in
GuangxiandYunnan anda blendofnationally-designated andprovincially-designated poor villages in
Sichuan. This strong focus on geographic targeting should sharply limitor eliminate the leakage o f
project benefits to the nonpoor within the project counties. Third, the project would assist several o f the
most extremely disadvantagedandremote ethnic minority groups inChina including the Wa people in
westemYunnan, the MaonanandMiao people innorthem Guangxi,andthe Yi people insouthern
Sichuan. Eleven of the project's eighteen counties are ethnic minority autonomous counties. The project
would concentrate on (a) outreach to the poorest andmost remote ethnic minority villages, and (b)
empowering the poor inthose villages to design, implement, andevaluate project assistance in
accordancewith their needs anddesires through the improved participatory approach.

Inaddition, apilot Disabilities Assistance activity wouldbe supported with aparallelDFIDgrant (still
pendingconfirmation) inYuexi County in Sichuan to assist people with disabilities. With support from
the China DisabledPeoplesFederation (CDPF) and the Sichuan DisabledPeoples Federation, Handicap
Internationalis assisting with the conceptualization and design o f the Disabilities Assistance pilot. This



                                                      - 7 -

activity gives increased attention to a quantitative assessment o f the causes o f disability withinYuexi
and, on the basis o f that assessment, assistancefor preventive activities, rehabilitation measures and
programs, and employment opportunities. The pilot activity supports mainstreaming measures to ensure
the full inclusion o fpeople with disabilities andtheir families incore poverty reductionwork inYuexi. It
will also pilotpractical approachesto implementingthe national policy on Community-Based
Rehabiliation, with a focus on empowerment ofpeople with disabilities to participate fully ineconomic
andsocial life. The pilot Disabilities Assistance activity is detailed inthe Project Implementation
Manual (PIM).

Success inlifting whole communities out o fpoverty and increasing health and prosperity requires
recognizing the differentchallengesfaced by women, men, girls andboys, as well as drawing on each o f
those members' productive contributions. Women andmeninthe project areas experience poverty
differently. Women do not enjoy equal access to services (health and education), decision-making bodies
(village committees), or the ownership o f assets including landandcredit, andshoulder heavier labor
burdensthanmen. Inorder to enableall women andgirls to develop anduse their potential as fully as
men andboys, the project will identify and address the barriers to equitable development outcomes.
Through the participatory processes women will be involved inplanninganddecision makingtogether
with men. The monitoring andevaluation (M&E) systemwill monitor the impact ofthe project on
equality betweenmenandwomen.

The new Program reconfirms the importance o f support for basic education, health, agriculture,
infrastructure, and local capacity building. The project would directly support these activities and give
special emphasis to (a) delivering appropriate technologies, services and infrastructure to the village and
household level, and (b) empowering the project villages andhouseholds to have a greater voice in
determining which activities are supported. The community capacity buildingcomponent would have a
complementary impact on all o fthese activities by strengthening managementcapacity andthe
participatory process at the local level.


C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for adetailed cost breakdown):

Participation andVillage Participatory Plans (VPPs). Government increasingly recognizes that
participation is a key mechanism for better targeted andmore effective poverty reduction, although there is
somewhat limitedexperience with usingparticipation throughout the project cycle incommunity-centered
projects withinthe government system inChina. Nonetheless, Chinese poverty reduction work is
progressively movingtowards one inwhch the poor themselves increasingly play an active role. The
Village Development Plan (VDP) initiative is an important step inthis direction. The PRCDP
Development Objective includes the aim o f fully involvingpoor people from project villages inthe design,
implementation, monitoring and impact assessment of the project. The PRCDP participatory approach
buildsonthe foundations ofthe Government's VDP initiative and other participation experiences, and aims
to empower local communities andpromote inclusion o f all disadvantaged social groups throughout the
project cycle. For these benefits to be achieved by PRCDP, the project implementing agencies need to
continue shiftingtheir perceptiono f participationfrom afunctional operation, whereby communities are
just consulted about plans formulated from above, to beingan empowering process that emphasizesthe
voices and choices of different groups inthe community, andbuildstheir ownership of, andcapacities for,
self-reliant community development.




                                                      - 8 -

The PRCDP participatory project cycle consists of four main steps: (a) Participatory Poverty Assessment,
(b) Participatory Planning, (c) ParticipatoryImplementation, and (d) ParticipatoryM&E. The
Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) will be undertaken by villagers, especially the poor and the
disadvantaged, usually with outside facilitation, o f their poverty situation andtheir development needs and
options, Itwill help to identifydifferent social groups within the communities andhouseholds under
consideration, and it will help inbetter understandingpoverty, especially from villagers' perspectives. The
main elements of PPA will be: sub-village sampling (that is, identification o f poor natural villages);
identification o fwithin-village poverty groups (social disaggregation); seasonality poverty analysis; poverty
history and trend analysis; vulnerability analysis; institutional analysis; gender analysis on poverty;
analysis o f the poverty situation o f ethnic groups; and assessment o f problems andsolutions. Participatory
Planning(PP) is a decision-making process where poverty groups and other stakeholders have the
opportunity to participate actively and voice their priorities and preferences regardingformulation o f
village-levelhub-project development objectives, approachesand activities as well as on resource allocation
andproject management issues. Participatory Implementation(PI) is the processthrough which
communities will be involved inimplementationtakingplace at village level, andhow a participatory
approach will be usedfor differenttypes o f project component activities. A basic premise o f Participatory
M&E(PM&E) is the acknowledgement that different socio-economic groups will have differingmeasures
o fproject success and impact, andwill be affected by the project differently. The PRCDP PM&E system
will thus encompass the full range of poverty groups inthe PRCDP villages.
A ParticipationManual(PM) is included inthe PRCDP PIM. The aim of the P Mis to provide guidance to
management staff and county/township facilitators on how to implement andmonitor the participatory
approach inPRCDP. It describes the basic principles o f the participatory approach, details the main steps
inthe participatoryproject cycle, elaborates institutional and management issuesinusingthe approach,
discusses its costs andbenefits, andprovides some resource material on methods and tools. It is illustrated
with case studies from the provinces, introducing good practices onparticipation. Inaddition it proposesa
quality assurance methodology for assessinghow the participatory approach i s being used. This includes a
number o f indicators o f `quality o f participation' ineach o f the project cycle steps.

The participatory process will be extended through a phasedprocess to all of the PRCDP project villages,
Itis expected that about 20% o fproject villages will fully participate inall project activities duringthe first
year ofproject implementation (that is, duringPhase One). Through the PPA and PP steps, the year one
project villages will select from a flexible andwide-rangmg list (menu) o f project activities. These selected
activities will comprise PRCDP Village Participatory Plans (VPPs). This participatory methodology will
be gradually expanded, benefiting from lessonslearned, to eventually cover 100%of the project villages.
Based on the experience gained under previousprojects as well as duringPRCDP preparation, the
implementation o f these PRCDP VPPs would comprise activities within the following six project
components:

Component I:SustainableMountain Agriculture. The component will support agricultural development
andsustainablelivelihoods ineacho fthe 1,063 project villages. Most o fthese villages comprise
communities livinginremote mountainous environments. The design andimplementationof the component
i s basedon the two principles o f targeting and reachmg all poor households, and environmental
sustainability. The component includes the following activities:

     Improving household agricultural productivity and diversification. Households will receive project
     support to improve, diversify and develop their productive activities. Activities will be determined by
     the communities andhouseholds themselves from a highlyflexible menuo f options usingthe project's
     participatoryprocess. It is expected that many households will choose to participate inanimal



                                                        - 9 -

    husbandryactivities. Other selections are likelyto includeimprovement of food security, cashcrops
    andtree crops.

0   Developingfarmer-to-farmer services. Some community members will elect to receive project support
    to develop farmer-to-farmer services. These community members will provide essentialservices to
                                            ~


    other community members, mostly inveterinary services, micro-scale processing, storage, marketing,
    and transportation.

0   Agricultural training and technicalsupport services. Diverse operators includingpublic extension
    services, private enterprises, training centers andNGOswill apply tojoin a program o f information,
    trainingandsmall demonstrations. Agricultural technology disseminatedbythese operatorswill be
    appropriate technology adaptedto local environments, to the small scale o f household operations, and
    to indigenous cultures.
The expected outcome andimpact of the component will be strengthenedthrough the close interlinkage with
investments into rural water resource and land development (see Component I1basic rural infrastructure
below) and the community capacity buildingcomponent (see Component V below). Together, these
components are designed to create a markedincreaseinhouseholds' productive assets and labor
productivity, while permittingthe pursuit o f sustainableupland agriculture, and improvingmarket access.

Component 11: Basic Rural Infrastructure. Lack ofbasic infrastructure affects all project areas,
compounding the harshliving conditions, the lack of livellhood opportunities andpoor access to social
services inthese remote areas. This component includes:

0   improvement invillage access through construction and improvement o f roads, tracks and paths;

0   provisiono f potable water supplies for humans and livestock;

0   constructiono f small water conservancy works (including irrigation and drainage) with associatedland
    improvements;

0   extension o f rural electrification and communications networks; and,

0   household energy andsanitation improvements,

Giventhe scale o fneedandthe relative costs of infrastructure inthese remote project areas, infrastructure
subcomponentswill be limitedto small-scale works that directly benefit the project communities who will
be involved intheir prioritisation, construction and maintenance through a rigorous community
participation process. Designs will be adaptedto suit the varied geology, resource availability and local
preferences. Agreement on the operation andmaintenance responsibilities will form part o f the
subcomponent approval process. Local labor will be engaged andpaid to construct public works providing
additional sources o f income for the communities. Household-based improvements (such as bio-gas and
sanitation systems) will be available inthe form o f household loans. Voluntary labor contributions will be
limitedto small infrastructure improvements that are implementedby the communities through Community
andVillage Households participatory procurement. All voluntary labor contributions will bebasedon
farmer informed choices and agreedby village implementation groups.

Infrastructure works will be carefully phasedandintegrated with other project components to maximise the
benefits o f the multisectoral approach. For example, access improvements will be undertakenearly such
that they can complement subsequent project inputs, and water andsanitation facilities will be integrated



                                                     -10-

into school andhealth facilities to strengthenhygienepromotion. The capacity buildingcomponent will
support the participatory approach and community implementation o f the small-scale infrastructure works
which can serve as a useful entry point and incentive for training and community development initiatives.

Component111:Basic Education. Despite notable achievements at the national level, primary schooling
inthe proposedproject areas is still markedbypoor attendanceandvery low on-time graduation rates, and
adult education has been not active and is o f limitedrelevance to local community development. There is a
clear strong demand for basic education services, including adult functional literacy education. The
component would address the challenges o f (a) limited access to primary education by poorer and more
vulnerable children, particularly girls and disabled children, (b) ineffective adult training and education for
rural community development, (c) inadequate skills andcapabilities of many teachers for both schooling
andadult education, (d) lughburden ofeducation expenses onpoor families, and(e) poor infrastructure,
much o f which is inneedo f rebuilding or repair. To respond to these challengesthe basic education
component will include the following activities:

 1. additional DFIDgrant fundingis being sought to pilot anine-year compulsory education program in
    selectedproject villages which will cover all charges for all children inthe selectedpilot areas inorder
    to reduce the cost burdenfor basic education for poor families;
2. integratingthe development ofthe schools and communities with the transformation ofthe village
    schools into community learningcenters;

3, training primary school teachers with innovative teachmg methodologies and improvingtheir ability to
    provide effective andrelevant training andeducation to community members; and,

4. providingtraining services to adults inthe project villages with a focus on functional literacy education
    and practical technical skills.

To maximize the component'spoverty impact, a maximumceiling for investments inhardware(including
civil works, furmture, equipment, etc.) has been set at 60% o f the total budget o f the education component.
Fundswill beprioritizedfor the rehabilitationof dilapidated schools inpoor andremote villages where
existingbuildings present healthand safety risks to pupilsand staff, No resourceswill be allocated for
buildingbigvillage center schools that merge small village schools andteachmg points, or for investments
instudent dormitories.

ComponentIV: Basic Health. As an integral part of a poverty reductionproject, the health component
will aim to improve the healthstatus of the populationinthe project areathrough improved access to basic
healthcare. Specific objectives include the reduction o f matemal mortality, infantmortality, andthe
incidence o f some key preventable infectious diseases. Investments inhardware have beenrestricted to less
than 50% ofthe total healthcare component budgetfor eachprovince. The activities to be supported
through the component are:

 1, financial assistance for medical care for the poorest to ensure that they can utilizebasic health services.
    A minimumbenefitpackage will include free maternalcare andimmunization, and support for
    inpatient care expenses;
 2. essentialpublic healthinterventions includingmaternal andchild health care, immunizations for all
    children, children's nutritionand control o fparasitosis, andhealtheducation for communities on basic
    health knowledge and HN/AIDS; and,

 3. improvement of basic health service capacities at the townshp and village levels through training for



                                                     -11   -

    healthworkers, buildingvillage clinics andrehabilitatingtownshp health facilities, provision o fbasic
    equipment andessential drugs, and adoption of clinical protocols, an essential drug list, and a mutual
    referral system.

ComponentV: Community CapacityBuilding. The component objective is to promote project
implementationeffectiveness and sustainability through strengthening the grass roots capacity inmanaging
community development activities. The design principles for the component are: (a) activities underthe
component should be driven by beneficiaries' demands, (b) most activities should be broad enough to cover
the whole community instead o f targeting some specific focus group, and(c) civil works should be kept to a
minimumlevel. Based on these principles, the component includes the following four types of activities:

1. activitiesto improve basic production and livingskills of the poor farmhouseholds, including applied
    technology training, vocational training, literacy education, andbasic healthknowledge extension;

2. activities to strengthen community leaders' basic skills, including skills on local administrative
    management, basic financial management, development o fvillage-level planning, local dispute
    resolution, and small-scale infrastructure construction;

3. activities to address the demands o f some specific disadvantaged groups, particularly inethnic minority
    areas, and includingspecial training for women;

4. activities to promote andstrengthen community participation inthe decision-making process of local
    public development affairs, including training inparticipatory approach methodologies and the
    stablishment o f farmer participatory monitoring groups.
5. activities to promote ICD (hardware andsoftware) to share information and support capacity building
     for project components, creating linkages with monitoring mechanisms at all levels, as set out in the
    provincialICD strategies.


ComponentVI: Project Management and Monitoring. PRCDP is a complex multisectoralproject with
several highly innovative aspects including the improvedparticipatory approach, outreach to extremely
remote and disadvantaged ethnic minority groups, assistancefor people with disabilities, and the free
education pilot. Past experience clearly shows that successful preparation, implementation, andmonitoring
and evaluation (M&E)o f such projects requires (a) strong support from all levels o f government, (b) an
extremely capable Project Management Office (PMO) system at all levels, and(c) apowerful andtimely
M&Eand managementinformation system (MIS). Inorder to meet the extraordinary demandsofthis
complex andinnovative project, PRCDP includes an explicit component to support project management
andM&E. The project management system (described inSection C.4 below) builds upon the highly
successful model (and the existing PMOS)o f the previous Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction projects. One key difference for PRCDP will be the absence o f a central project management
office (CPMO). It is acknowledged that the CPMO played an important role inoverall project
coordination and management under the previous World Bank-assisted poverty reduction projects. Its
absence inPRCDP may engender unexpected difficulties inproject management at all levels, whch may
become impedimentsto the timely provision of counterpart funding, smoothcoordination among
government line agencies, effective project supervision, andmonitoring andevaluation (see Section C4
below).

To mitigate against the risk o fproject progress beingnegatively affectedby the absence o f a CPMO, the
Bankand DFIDteams will work to strengthen and further develop cooperative relationships withkey
central government actors. These government agenciesmay provide the support to the teams as deemed



                                                     - 1 2 -

necessq. Inaddition, strong working and coordinating relationships will needto be developed between
the teams andprovincial govemments and PMOSat all levels to ensurethat project management standards
andprocedures are adheredto throughout the project cycle. Inaddition, aproject Central LiaisonGroup
(CLG) was formed duringproject preparation. The CLG was established withinthe ForeignCapital
Project Management Center o f the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction, andhas played an important role
duringproject preparation. The CLGwill continue to operateas the mainproject coordinatingandprocess
management mechanism during implementation.

The M&Esystem, which also builds on the successfulexperience o f these previous projects, will comprise
both an "intemal" physical monitoringand information system, and an "extemal" independent impact
assessment system. The intemal system will (a) monitor disbursement andrecovery o fproject funds and
physical progress o f the project, and (b) combine surveys o f a small numbero fproject households with
Village Monitoring Groups and other measuresto gauge the quality and success o f the participatory
approach. The independent impact assessment system will monitor the project's impact onpoverty and
well-being. This independent mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the project will be vital to get a
clear and unbiased picture of project impact, and will measure changesinabsolute andrelative poverty and
vulnerability inproject areas. DFID grant funding is being sought to (a) extendthe frequency o f the
householdsurveys from three years to all six years o f the project (that is, without the additional DFID grant
funding, the household surveyswouldbeundertaken at the beginningofthe project, at the mid-termreview,
andat the conclusion of the project), and (b)provide technical assistanceto ensurethat the M&E
methodology used integrates both quantitative (based on annual surverys o f 1800project andnonproject
households) andqualitative surveys andapproaches.

Total Project Costs (US$m, including contingencies)

                                                                  ndicative                   Bank-       % of
                                                                   costs         % of      financing     Bank-
                                                                  (US$M)        Total       (US$M)     financing
 Component I:Sustainable MountainAgriculture                         62.88         44.1        47.00       47.0
 Component 11: Basic Rural Infrastructure                            50.38         35.3        30.20       30.2
 Component 111: Basic Education                                        8.58          6.0        5.70         5.7
 Component IV: Basic Health                                            6.68          4.7        4.70        4.7
 Component V: Community Capacity Building                              7.00          4.9        6.50         6.5
 Component VI: Project Management andMonitoring                        6.58          4.6        5.40         5.4
                                            Total Project Costs    142.10          99.6        99.50        99.5
                                                  Front-end fee        0.50          0.4        0.50         0.5
                                    Total Financing Required       142.60         100.0       100.00       100.0




                                                    - 13-

Sichuan




Guangxi




~




 Yunnan

                         Component                            Indicative % of Total  Bank-      Y o of
                                                                costs               fiancing   Bank-
                                                               (US$M)               (US$M) financing
 Component I : Sustainable Mountain Agriculture                 16.2       32.4       12.4      35.3
 Component 11: Basic Rural Infrastructure                       21.7       43.5       12.9      36.9
 Component 111: Basic Education                                  4.5       8.8         3.3       9.3
K    n   tIV:Basic Health                                   I    2.3    I  4.7     I   1.7    1 4.9      1
 Component V: Community Capacity Building                        1.7       3.2         1.7       4.8
 Component VI: Project Management andMonitoring                  3.5       7.0         2.9       8.3
                                          Total Project Costs   49.8       99.6       34.9      99.5
                                                Front-end FeeI 0.2         0.4         0.2
                                                                                              1  0.5
                                                                                   I
                                    Total Financing Reauired    50.0    I          I
                                                                        I
                                                                           100.0      35.0      100.0  1


                                                -14-

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
The Government's current "Rural Poverty Alleviation andDevelopment Program: 2001-2010'' explicitly
recognizes the need to promote community participationthroughout the entire project process, strengthen
outreach to remote ethnic minority groups, andimprove targeting (see Section B.2 above). The proposed
project will directly support these and other sectoralpolicy andinstitutional reforms (see Sections B.3
above). Most importantly, it hasbeen agreedthat (a) improved participation will be a key feature o f the
proposedproject's design, implementation, monitoring andimpact assessment, and(b) the project will
assist some o f the poorest and most remote ethnic minority peoples. The project's participatory approach is
summarized inSection E.6.2 below and inAnnex 11. The project's approach to assisting ethnic minority
people is summarized in Section E.6.1 below and inAnnex 11.

3. Benefits and target population:
The projectwould improve the income levels andwell-being of about 1.4 million absolutepoor in 18
counties inSichuan, Yunnan, and Guangxi. The two provinces andone Autonomous Region are in
China's lagging western region, andall 18 counties are nationally-designated poor counties. All o f the
project villages inYunnan and Guangxiare designatedkey poor villages, andtwo-thirds o f the project
villages in Sichuan are designatedkey poor villages. As summarized inthe table below, ethnic minority
people comprise two thirds of project beneficiaries, and include people o f the Yi, Wa, Dai, Lahu,
Zhuang, Miao, Molao, Dong, Maonan and other groups. The mainproject benefits would be (a) a
greater sense o f community cohesion andempowerment through the participatory project design,
implementationand M&Eprocess, (b) increasedincome levels andfood security from improvedupland
agricultural productivity, (c) greater utilizationo f basic social and other infrastructure services from
increased access to markets, safe drinkingwater, transportation, electric power, education, health and
other social services, (d) stabilizationandreversal o f environmental destruction through land
improvement andnatural resource conservation works, and (e) improved project design and
implementationcapacity at different levels that can be mobilisedfor the Government's ownpoor areas
development programmes. A special pilot activity, implementedby DFIDthrough separate parallel
institutional and fimdingchannels, would also benefitpeople with disabilities inYuexi County in
Sichuan.

There are strong gender differences inproject areas, whtch are lmkeddirectly to levels o f poverty.
Genderdisparities are growing withinmanyareas despite a formal commitment by the Chinese
Government to gender equality. The ratio o f newborn boys to girls was 116.9% in2000. The maternal
mortality rate (1985-99) is 55 per 100,000 live births, but figures inpoorer regions are reported to be
muchhigher.From 1990-95, the gender ratio of HIV infection was 1woman to 9 men, but by 2001 this
hadrisen to 1woman to 3.4 men. Women constitute two thirds o f China's 85 million illiterate or
semi-illiterate people. Girls are less likely thanboys to receive medical care or go to school. The
project will support interventions and approaches to mainstream gender equity andaddress
discrimination through the project. The mainvehicle for this will be the participatory approach which
supports the participation o f women throughout the project cycle. Inaddition, the project will
institutionalize gendermainstreaming by developing a gender mainstreaming strategy for eachprovince.
Thts will include gender training inmanagement capacity building, disaggregating data andmonitoring
the specific impact of interventions on equity betweenwomen andmen, and supporting specific
initiatives to meet the particular needs o f women, for example, maternalhealth.




                                                      -15-

Project Beneficiariesby Provinceand County.

        Provinces            NumberofCounties           Numberof Direct          Proportion o f Ethnic
                                                       Project Beneficiaries         Minority
                                   number                     number                     %
         Sichuan                      6                      426,779                    43%
         Yunnan                       6                      432,100                    56%
        Guangxi                       6                      542,800                    90%

         Total                        18                    1,40 1,679                  65%


4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
World BanklDFID Partnership. DFIDandthe World Bankworked inpartnershipwith the Government
to help prepare the proposedproject. DIFDplayed a very active role duringproject development, andi s
expected to play an equally active role duringproject implementation. This project design combines DFID
grant funds with an IBRDloanto soften lendingterms for highpriority social sectorprojects withthe
overarching objective of poverty alleviation. Indoing so, it expands the availability o f concessional
financing for development to provinces for key social sector investments. Followingthe path o f the
recently negotiated Bank-DFIDsupported CHINA:Tuberculosis Control Project and CHINA: Basic
Education in WesternAreas Project, the UnitedKingdom's Department For IntemationalDevelopment
(DFID)hasagreedto providethe PRC a grant ofUS$32.45 million to beblended with anIBRDloanof
US$lOO.O million to significantly reduce the effective interest rate to China. Upon approval, the DFID
grant will be usedto prepay 32.45 percent of IBRDdisbursements inorder to reduce the effective interest
rate on the total Bank loanto no more than 2 percent per annumover the 20 year loanperiod. The
MinistryofFinance (MOF) willpassthe proceedso fthe loanto the project provinces inUS dollars at the
guaranteed interest rate o f 2 percent per annum.

CentralLevel. At the central level, the project CLG hasbeen established within the LeadingGroup for
Poverty Reduction's Foreign Capital Project Management Center (FCPMC). The CLG played a vital role
duringproject preparation in(a) coordinatingall communications between DFID, the World Bank, the
Central Government agencies involved inpreparation, andthe provincial PMOs, (b) managing the
participation and outputs o f a number o f national and intemational experts, and(c) ensuringthat all of the
many preparation activities were completed on a timely basis. The CLG will continue to undertake thus
vital coordinationrole throughout the life o f the project.

Provincialand PrefecturalLevels. At the provincial level, Project LeadingGroups (PLG) have been
established to (a) mobilize the institutional, technical and financial resources andsupport for the
preparation and implementationof the project, and (b)provide the critical coordinationandmonitoring
function for project implementation. The PLGs include staff o f the provincial PlanningCommissions,
Finance Bureaus, Poverty Alleviation andDevelopment Offices, andother related agencies (such as the
Irrigation, Agriculture, Transport, Education, Health, Environmental ProtectionDepartments, and the
Statistical Bureaus). Inaddition, the existing provincialPMOs have ensured effective and timely
preparation of the project. The Yunnan and GuangxiPMOs were established under the China: Southwest
Poverty Reduction Project (SWPRP) andthe Sichuan PMO was established underthe ongoing World
Bank supported China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (QBPRP). These three provincial
PMOs already have a great deal ofproven capability andexperience with project design, implementation,



                                                      - 16-

andM&E. The complexity and innovativeness ofthe proposedproject requires that the capacity of the
provincial PMOs be further strengthenedthrough the institution buildingcomponent o f the project.
Provincial level Techrucal Advisory Groups have also beenestablishedto provide technical support for
project implementation. Prefectural PMOs have also been establishedto coordinate work within the project
prefectures andto monitor and assist withproject fund withdrawal andreimbursement.

Due to the absence o f a Central PMO andthe special demands o f the project's participatory approach
throughout the entire project cycle, it is anticipated that the provincial PMOs will find it very challenging to
acheive smooth andeffectiveproject coordinationandmanagement. For this reason, the CLG's roles and
responsibilities have now been refinedandupdatedto ensure that they will be able to play a more effective
role inoverall project coordination between DFIDlWorldBank andthe provinces during the period o f
project implementation. DFID andthe World Bank will also undertake to mobilize extra resources for the
independent M&Esystem and for project supervision inorder to partially mitigate some o f the potential
effects o fthe absence o f a Central PMO.

County and Lower Levels. PLGs and PMOs have also been set up at the county level. The several
county-level technical bureaus directly involvedinthe project would, inclose cooperation with the
participatingtownship governments and their offices at the administrative village level, play a key role in
the day-to-day implementationo f the project. Together, the county levelPLGs, PMOs andtechnical
bureaus have played a key role inproject design and preparation, and will play the most important role in
project implementationandM&E. Successful implementationdepends most critically on the capabilities o f
the county PMOs. Since most ofthe county PMOs have not previouslybeen involvedinsuch large scale,
complex, and innovativeprojects, the project's institutionbuildingcomponent will focus on strengthening
capacity at this key level o f the PMO system.
SWPW andQBPRP have demonstrated that the extension and capability o f the PMO systemto the
township andvillage level is absolutely crucial to effective project implementation and outreach to the
poorest naturalvillages andhouseholds. Buildingon this experience, the proposed project will establish
Township Project Work Stations (TPWS) andVillage Project Execution Groups (VPEG) at the township
andvillage levels. The TPWSs andVPEGswill be responsible for the day-to-day execution ofthe project
intheir corresponding areas. Inadditionto members ofthe village committee andthe All C h a Women's
Federation (ACWF), VPEGs would also include at least one household representative. The project would
provide the TPWSs andVPEGs with a yearly budget to allow project staff to carry out frequent follow-up
activities for individual village development plans. The project's institution buildingcomponent will also
help strengthenplanning and implementationcapacity at the township andvillage levels.


D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Selection of Project Provinces: Several possible sets o f project provinces were considered during the
early stages ofproject preparation. The Government first proposedincluding Hebei andNeimeng which
include a number of nationally-designated poor counties and areas o f significant soil erosion due to the
extension o f cropping onto fragile hillsides. This option was eventually dropped infavor o f a more remote
project area subject to more severe poverty. A second optionwas to concentrate the project injust one
province insouthwest China, but it was decided that confining the project to just one province would limit
the project's potentialimpact on the nationalpoverty reductionprogram. Finally, it was determined that the
project would focus on two o f the poorest of China's eighteen regional "poverty blocks." These poverty
blocks are the Hengduanmountain area including Yunnan and Sichuan andthe Jiuwan mountain area
including Guangxiand Guizhou. These two blocks have substantial concentrations o fpoor people and



                                                       -17-

sigmficant numbers of a variety of disadvantagedethnic minority people. A thirdpoverty block -- the
Wulingmountain area -- was also considered. However, a significant portion ofthis block was to be
assistedby a separate AusAID project, and it was decided that the project would not include the Wuling
block. Similarly, the Government decided to drop Guizhou from the project because it was scheduledto
receive a large bilateral grant for a poverty reductionactivity covering the proposedproject area.

Selection of Project Counties: Similar exerciseswere undertaken to select the project counties within
each o f the project provinces andthe project townships withineach o f the project counties. Only nationally
designated poor counties were considered for the project, and the list o fpossible project counties was
further reducedby excluding those counties which hadalready received substantial international assistance.
Itwas eventually decided that the project wouldcover eighteen counties including six counties ineach
province. Most o f these counties are withinthe HengduanandJiuwanpoverty blocks and most include
large numbers o f disadvantaged ethnic minority groups.

Targeting the Poorest Townships and Villages: The provinces' initial project proposals targeted a blend
o f the poorest townships andvillages as well as a number o f relatively better-offtownships andvillages
withinthe poor counties. Inmany instances, the initialprovincial project proposals excluded the very
poorest townships andvillages and the most remote and disadvantaged ethnic minority peoples since it was
believedthat these townships, villages, andethnic minoritypeople would experience greater difficulty
repayingproject support andwould have more limiteddevelopment opportunities. Through extensive
discussions, it was decided that the project would concentrate on assisting those with the greatestneeds in
the poorest townships andvillages anddisadvantagedethnic minority areas. Onthis basis, the final
provincial and county project feasibility studies now include only the poorest townships with the greatest
number o f ethnic minority people. The selection of project townships withinthe Yunnan project counties
was cross-checked against township poverty incidence and severity data from the China: Poverty Mapping
Project. Within the project counties andtownships, the project would focus on the nationally designated
keypoor villages (see Section B.3 above) and onthe most disadvantaged ethnic minority groups. Overall,
theproject is closely targeted to the very poorest villages andneediest ethnic minority groups.

Household-based Multisectoral Approach and Project Complexity: Duringthe early stages o f project
preparation it was proposed that a larger-scale infrastructure-based approach would have a better chance
o f achevingpoverty reduction and loan repayment objectives. Inthe May 2002 Project Logframe
Workshop inChengdu, for example, it was proposed that the project content inSichuan would comprise
two toll roads to tea and livestock productionbases intwo poor regions o f the province. This project
approach was eventually rejected infavor o f a multisectoral approach which better addresses the variety o f
expressedneeds o fthe poorest villages andhouseholds. Available evidence strongly documents that the
poorest villages and households have a wide variety o f needs includingbetter access to (a) basic education
and health services, (b) transport, dnnkingwater, communications, and other basic infrastructure, and (c)
appropriate agricultural technologies andtraining and increasedproduction assets to achieve food security
and expand the output of marketable crops. It is believed that this multisectoral approach has the greatest
potential to achieve a sustainable reduction inpoverty inthe most severely affected areas. It was
recognized that the household-based multisectoral approach greatly increasesproject complexity.
However, the highly successful experience o f SWPRP and QBPRP has shown that a strengthened project
managementsystem can meet the challenge o f greater than average project complexity.




                                                      - 1 8 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                    Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                              Project                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                                               (Bank-finance1 projectsonly)
                                                                               Implementation     Development
 Bank-financed                                                                  Progress(IP)     Objective (DO)

Poverty reduction, natural resource        China: Southwest Poverty                   S               HS
management, community participation, Reduction Project
andvoluntary settlement
                                           China: Qinba Poverty                       S               H S
                                           Reduction Project
                                           China: Loess Plateau                       S                S
                                           Watershed Rehabilitation
                                           Projects (I and 11)
                                           China: Shanxi Poverty                      S                S
                                           Alleviation Project
                                           China: Western Poverty                     S                S
                                           ReductionProject
Other development agencies
 IFAD-PovertyAlleviation
 AusAid-Poverty Alleviation
 UNDP/WFP-Poverty Alleviation
 EU-Poverty Alleviation
 EU-Basic Education
 DFID-Basic Education and Health
IP/DORatings: HS (Highly Satisfactory),S (Satisfactory),U (Unsatisfactory),t I (Highly Unsati: ICtOry)

3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Successful implementation o f SWPRP andQBPRP (which are similar multisectoralpoverty reduction
projects) provides important lessonsfor the design andimplementation o f the proposedproject:

(a) SWPRP andQBPRP's hghly effective organizational andmanagement structure was able to satisfy the
demands o f these highlycomplex andinnovative projects. The extraordinarily strong support o f the central
govemment played a vital role inproject preparation, implementation and M&E.

(b) Community participation is essentialto the success ofthe project, andthe vigor ofthe participatory
approach must extend throughout the life o f the project including implementationandM&E.

(c) Institution and capacity buildingat the local level (that is, the township and village levels) are key to
outreach to the poorest and most remote villages andto sustainability o f the project activities.

(d) Goodsynergy was achieved by bringingina great variety ofpoverty reductionactivities downto the
township andvillage level. Inparticular, early provision o f support for basic education and health
extended the outreach o f the project to the poorest villages and greatly encouragedthose villagers to



                                                     -19-

participate inall other aspects o f the project. There was a real organizational and management cost to
providing such a wide rangeof benefits to the poor, but the PMO systemrose to this challenge andfound
that the benefits and synergy from a multisectoralapproach outweighed these costs.

(e) SWPRP and QBPRP illustratedthat the effectiveness and efficiency o f ruralpoverty reduction activities
can be greatly enhancedthrough more support, supervision andmanagementby the central andprovincial
levels o f govemment. The active involvement of higher levels o f govemment inthe allocation andutilization
ofpoverty reductionfunding can greatly enhanceits effectiveness, anda certain portionofpoverty
reduction program funding should be allocatedto independent andrigorous supervision and monitoring of
the use o f those funds.

(9There is aneedfor simplifyingandintroducinggreaterflexibilityinthe Bank's procurement procedures
inview ofthe seasonalandscatterednature ofmost project activities.

These lessons from SWPRP andQBPRP are all closely reflected inthe proposedproject's design. First,
the provincial and lower level PMO system builds upon that established inthe earlier projects, and an
explicit institution buildingcomponent will further strengthenthe PMO systemat the provincial and lower
levels. Although central govemment support for the project has beenminimal, it i s believedthat the three
provincialPMOs have now accumulated more than sufficient experience andcapability to largely
overcome that lack o f support from the center. Second, the project greatly advances the participatory
approach pioneered through SWPRP andQBPRP. Inparticular, concrete plans have beenestablished to
sustain a more robust participatory process throughout the full project cycle. Third,the institution building
component will strengthen capacity at the county, township andlower levels. Fourth, the project plans call
for early implementatioin o fbasic education, health, and rural infrastructure activities inthe poorest and
most remote villages. This will serve to better include the most remote andmost disadvantaged ethnic
minority communities right from the outset o fproject implementation. Fifth,an improved M&E, MIS and
supervision system has beenestablished. Lastly, the project's procurement arrangements are simpler and
far more flexible than those of SWPRP andQBPRP.

4. Indicationsof borrower commitmentand ownership:
The Govemment has demonstrated strong commitment to and ownership ofthe project. InMay 2000, the
Government, with the assistanceo f the Bank, successfully hosted an InternationalConference on China's
Poverty Reduction Strategy inthe 21st Century, andthe project concept originated at that Conference. The
Vice Premier, Wen Jiabao, subsequently discussedthe project with the UK Government during a visit to
the UK. The provincial govemments also have a strong commitment to the project, and the provincial
PMOs have played the leading role inproject preparation. All three provinces and every project county has
prepared an initial project proposal anda subsequent detailed project feasibility study.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The major value added from the Bank andDFID's support has beento (a) keep the project closely targeted
to assisting the poorest villages and households andthe most remote and disadvantaged ethnic minority
groups, (b) help design a multisectoral package o f assistanceactivitieswhich more closely reflects the
expressedneeds o f the intended beneficiaries, and (c) upgrade the participatory process and establish a
mechanism to ensure that the participatory process will extend through the full life o f the project. Bank
and DFIDsupport also played the key role inthe inclusion o f the People with Disabilities Assistance Pilot
andthe Community Capacity Buildingcomponents.




                                                     - 20 -

E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0Costbenefit            NPV=US$ million; ERR= 30 % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)

A traditional methodology has beenusedfor conducting economic analysis. For differentactivities, an
estimate was made of the future stream o f costs andbenefits inorder to calculate the net present value
(NPV) and an economic rate o f return (ERR). Data for calculatingthe ERRcomes from provincial level
feasibility studies and a series o f Poverty MonitoringReports for Qinba project (State Statistical Bureau,
1998-2003).

Projectbenefits have beenquantified for three major components: (a) sustainablemountain agriculture; (b)
basic rural infrastructure; and (c) basic education. Investment inthese three major components accounts
for about 85% o f total project investment. To calculate the ERRo f the project as a whole, the individual
ERRSwere weighted bythe investmentproportionof corresponding components inthe totalproject. The
benefits o f other components are difficult to quantify (e.g., basic health, community capacity building, and
project management andmonitoring) andhence ERRSare not calculated for them.

Several conventional and conservative assumptionsare made. First,per capita income inbothproject and
nonproject areas are projectedto increase at 5% eachyear inthe first ten years, and then remain
unchanged. Second, the estimated benefits (revenues) are extrapolated over a 35 year period. Third, the
capital discount factor is 0.1. No other major assumptions are made.

The overall ERRof the proposedproject is estimated to be around 30% (see table below). It should be
noted that, as a result of the conservative assumptions made andreasons explained indetail inAnnex 4, the
estimated ERRi s ldcely to underestimate the real benefits o f the project and hence it should be regarded as
the lower bound o fthe project's expectedreal ERR. However, even from the lower boundperspective, the
economic viability o f the proposed project is welljustified.



                Project as a whole       Sustainablemountain          Basic rural        Basic
                                               agriculture           infrastructure     education
   ERR                 30%                         35%                   27%              19%


2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)

N o estimate o f the the financial rate o f return (FRR) has beenmade separately. After more than two
decades o f market-oriented economic reform, price distortions due to the Government's intervention have
basically beeneliminated. Convincing evidence shows that an integrated domestic markethas already been
established andit is increasingly integrated with the internationalmarket. Against this background, there is
essentially no additional value to calculating the ERRand FRR separately to capture the impact o fprice
distortion.




                                                       -21 -

Fiscal Impact:
The short-run fiscal impact of the project on counties is interms o f counterpart finds and operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs. For Sichuan no counterpart funds will be requiredfrom county governments,
while Yunnan will require only minimal funds. However, Guangxiis requiring500,000 RMB per year
from each county incounterpart funds. Giventhe weak fiscal position o fproject counties, there is a
significant risk for Guangxithat these funds will not be providedon time, causing delays to project
implementation. This riskwill be minimisedby close monitoringwith rapid interventionif delays occur.
The riskofinsufficient funding of O&M costs at county, township andvillage levels is to be minimisedby
the participatory approach which should increaselocal willingness to contribute to O&M, and by
provincialimplementation guidelinesrequiringestimation o f O&M costs as part o f subproject design.

Although there is a relatively highERR, the reduction and abolition o f agncultural taxes will mean that
there is less o f an impact from the project on government revenues. However, basedon the fact that most
project counties are the poorest ethruc minority counties, and on the experience from the Southwest and
Qinba projects, higher level (provincial and central) governments will have some special arrangementsor
favored policy towards these counties interms o f fiscal resourcetransfer. They may therefore provide
support ifcounties have difficulties with repayment.

3. Technical:

Although the proposed project comprises a number o f diverse sectors, the project activities within each of
these sectors together represent an integratedpackage o f very basic andproven technologies. The earlier
Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty ReductionProjects, which includedvery similar component
contents, encountered no significant technical challenges. It is therefore believedthat the proposedproject
will not face any significant technical difficulties. The only likely exceptions might be technical challenges
associatedwith pilotinga free compulsory education programinselectedproject villages andpilotingthe
disabilities assistanceactivities inYuexi County. However, these technical challenges would be modest,
andthe proposedproject benefits from strong technical support from the provincial Education Bureaus,
National and Sichuan Provincial DisabledPeoples Federation, and Handicap International. While the free
education and disabilities assistance pilots would be innovative and challenging activities within the context
o f the proposed project, these Government agencies andHandicap Internationalhave substantial experience
with these activities. With their technical support, it is believedthat any technical challengeswould be
surmounted. Furthermore, these two pilots represent a very small share o f total project cost, so the modest
technical risks for these activities pose no threat to the overall viability o f the proposedproject.

4. Institutional:


Overall, the Bank-financedprojects inChina have had a very good implementationrecord. Inaddition, the
PMO system for Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Projects has an excellent record of
project implementation. However, one o f the key lessonso f SWPRP and QBPRP is the importance o f
Central Government leadershp inproject preparation, implementation, andevaluation. Unfortunately, the
Central Government has provided only limitedsupport for PRCDP. Stronger central government support
could have contributed to more timely andeffective project preparation, and would inthe future contribute
to more effective project implementationand evaluation. However, while stronger Central Government
support would still be prefened, the three provincialPMOSare highly committed to the project andhave a
proven recordo f capable implementation. Onbalance, it is expected that the three provinces will
effectively implement the project and achieve its development objectives.



                                                       - 22 -

4.1 Executingagencies:
See Section C.4
4.2 Project management:
See Section C.4
4.3 Procurement issues:
Based on the findings reported inthe Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, the key procurement
issues and risks are related to the fact that (a) the majority o fprocurement activities will be conducted at
the county level andbelow, (b) there will be substantial community involvement andparticipation inthe
procurement process, and (c) most county PMOs do not have previous experience with Bank-financed
projects andthe village communities do not have previous formal knowledge o f community participationin
procurement.

The issues andrelatedrisks can be resolved or reducedby: (a) sufficient staffing -- untilnow, all three
provincial PMOs have establishedprocurement units andall 18 project counties have appointed two to four
staff ineachcounty PMO to be responsible for procurement activities. The county PMOs are requestedto
maintain the stability ofprocurement staffing; (b) timely and adequateprocurement training       -- the
provincial PMOs are requiredto make detailed procurement training plans to ensure that the responsible
procurement staff at various levels have beentrained and have gained not only the requiredprocurement
knowledge, but also the capacity to take leadership inassistingthe counties andcommunities to carry out
procurement inaccordancewith the procurement plan and agreedprocedures; (c) the procurement manual
has been completed. The finalized procurement manual provides procurement guidance and detailed
reference to PMOs at all levels andto the communities; (d) the provincial PMOSwill clearly specify the
distribution o f responsibilities o f the lower level PMOs, the related technical agencies, andthe
communities. Detailed procurement procedures for the proposedproject, including procedures for
community participation activities will be formulatedby the completion o f the project appraisal; and (e) the
provincial PMOs will establish sound systems to maintainprocurement documents andrecords and ensure
smooth supervision andreview by the Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial managementspecialist (FMS) has conducted anassessment of the adequacy ofthe project
financial management system. The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the Financial Management
Sector Board dated October 15,2003, has concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial
management requirements, as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. Inthe opinion o f the FMS, the project will have
inplace anadequateproject financialmanagementsystemthat canprovide, with reasonableassurance,
accurateand timely information on the status o f the project inthe reporting format agreedwith the project
andas requiredby the Bank.

Fundingsourcesfor the project include the Bank loan, counterpart funds and a DFIDgrant. The Bankloan
proceeds will flow from the Bank into the project Special Accounts to be set up at andmanaged by the
Provincial Finance Bureaus (of Yunnan, Sichuan andGuangxi), to project implementing agencies and
finally to contractors or suppliers. Counterpart funds will come from the central andthe provincial,
municipal, andcounty governments. The Loan will be disbursedbasedon traditional disbursement
techniques andwill not use FMR-baseddisbursements, inaccordancewith the agreement between the Bank
and MOF.




                                                       - 23 -

No outstanding audits or audit issuesexist with any ofthe implementing agenciesinvolved inthe proposed
project. The FMS, however, will continue to be attentive to financial management matters and audit
covenants duringproject supervision.

The World Bank's Operational Policy OP 8.30, whichrefers to Financial Intermediary Lending(FIL),
provides guidelines andprinciples for Bank-financed operations containing line-of-credit (LOC) elements.
Inthe EAP Region, the Central Operations ServicesUnit(COSU), withthe collaboration ofthe Financial
Sector Board, is responsible for organizing Quality Enhancement Reviews (QERs) for each operation
having LOC elements. The objective o f these QERs is to ensure full compliance with OP 8.30 by
providingtimely assistanceand guidance to the project teams regardingthe treatment o f specific financial
sector issues inproject design.

The PRCDP Project intends to provide support to extremely poor households inremote villages directly
through the provincial financial bureaus, without the establishment o f a formal revolving loan fund
managed by a financial intermediary. The project support will cover the requirementsto implement Village
Development Plans (VDPs), prepared by the beneficiaries through a comprehensive participatory
methodology. The presence of commercial banksor other formal financial institutions hnctioning inthe
project areas is currently very limitedandthe financial assistanceto the target beneficiaries inthe project
areas is almost non-existent. The Project was not designed as a vehicle to address the financial sector
issueso f China andthe government agenciesinvolved inprovidingthis assistance to project villages should
not be considered as commercial financial intermediaries as definedby OP 8.30. A preliminary review was
heldwith members of the LOC RegionalReviewGroup to determine whether this project fell underthe
guidelines o fthe OP 8.30. The conclusion was that the project was outside the purview ofthe guidelines
anddidnot trigger OP 8.30. Therefore, no special QERwas requiredregardingthe applicability of OP
8.30 to this Project. The review concluded that the procedures usedby the government administered
support system(initial assessment, supervisiodmonitoring, andpartial cost recovery), should be
strengthenedto ensure efficiency andeffectiveness.

5. Environmental:                          EnvironmentalCategoiy: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The overall objective and design of the proposed project suggestthat its net environmental impact will be
positive, and that any negative environmental effects will not be significant, sensitive, irreversible or
long-term. The project's focus on poverty reduction and improvingthe livelihoods o f the poorest through a
decentralized participatory approach is likelyto have the largest cumulative positive impact on the
environment, given the demonstrated causal connection between poverty andenvironmental degradation.
The project will bringspecific environmental benefits through improved soil and water management,
increasedpermanent vegetation cover, training andpromotion o f improved agricultural and livestock
raisingpractices, and capacity buildingo f government staff, contractors and farmers inenvironmental
issues and better practices.

There are no knowncultural properties inthe locations o fthe project, however there are a number o f
naturalhabitats inproject townshps comprising nature reserveso f different types (wildlife, forest
ecosystems, natural resources, scientific research) ando f different levels (national, provincial and county).
No project activities shall take place inthe nature reserves, and any activities locatednearby, as well as any
road rehabilitationthat might improve access to these habitats, will be closely examined to determine the
potential for negative impact on the nature reserves. Duringproject appraisal, improved mapping and
detailed discussions were heldto ensure that the project will not have a direct impact on naturalhabitats
and that monitoring measures are inplace.


                                                     - 24 -

The most substantial potential negative environmental effects o f the proposed project are: (a) natural
habitat andforest degradation from improved road access; (b) grazing exceeding the land's carrying
capacity and causing soil erosion; (c) loss o fbiodiversity andnative species; (d) organic andnon-organic
solid and liquidwaste disposal; (e) quarrying o f stone and road construction damaging natural landscapes
and causing land slips and undisposed spoil; and (0higher use o f fertilizer, plastic sheeting, pesticides and
herbicides with consequentaccumulation insoil, water and people. The cumulative effect o f these possible
impacts is not significant although local problems can be expected to occur. It is anticipated that the
overall improvement inthe conditions of the populace will outweigh the negative impacts inthese locations
andserveto reduce other morenegative impacts that would occur should no projecttake place.
Management, mitigationand monitoringmeasureshave beenproposed to negate or reduce these impacts
withinthe EnvironmentalManagement Plan(EMP).
5.2 What are the inain features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP includes an environmental supervisionplan, anenvironmental protectionactionplan and an
environmentalmonitoring plan. These plans provide a number o f measuresto reduce negative impacts.
For infrastructure works these include: (a) examinationo f initial designs for roads including routing,
investment inenvironmental protection, materials acquisition and spoil disposal; (b) monitoring o f
construction works for all infrastructure to ensure no excess materials usage anddisposal, compliance with
mitigationandmonitoring measures proposed, and publication o frequirements inlocalareas and
investigation o fproblems; and (c) checking o fproblems during operation o f facilities andimpacts on
nearby populations. For agriculturalprojects these include: (a) examinationo f initial design including
investment inenvironmental protectionand scale o f animal production; (b) analysis and inspectiono f
implementation andmitigation measuresfor disposal o f pesticide residues, fertilizer pollution, plastic film
pollution and livestock waste; (c) promotion o f Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and Integrated Nutrient
Management (INM) and closed cycle projects; (d) monitoring o f application o fpesticides, fertilizers and
plastics, andanimal waste disposal; and (e) review o f any epidemic handlingand regular monitoring and
follow-up. For other investments, such as health andeducation, these include the examination o fplans
(especially investmentsfor treating sewage and hospital waste) and the regular follow-up o f waste disposal.

The measuresoutlined inthe EMPwill bemade more effective duringproject implementationby involving
the line agencies more deeply inthe work rather than leaving inspection and compliance to the small and
under-funded Environmental Bureaus. Increased public participationinthe environmental aspects during
design, implementationandmonitoring, andawareness-raising targeting the most important issues will be
incorporated into the investmentsand project processes.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, tiineline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: September 24,2004

The date and receipt of the final ENEMP was January 31,2005.

5.4 How have stakeholders beenconsulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The agency undertakingthe environmental assessment conducted public surveys o f the local residents o f all
o f the project counties through discussions, interviews andquestionnaires inApril, May andJuly o f 2004.
Inaddition, public questionnaireswere distributed inallproject counties to ordinary residentsandvarious
government agenciesto gauge their opinion and gain their feedback on the project design andactivities. A
brief summary o f the EA-EMP was printed and distributed inpublic locations such as libraries and


                                                        - 25 -

billboards outside county offices ina number ofproject townships inall o f the project counties. A detailed
list of the groups consulted and locations where consultation occurred is included within the draft
EA-EMP.

The EA-EMP has been reviewedand clearedby the Provincial EnvironmentalProtection Bureaus which
are responsible for the review andclearance o f the safeguardsaspects of the province.

The feedback fiom the stakeholders was broadly positive. Major environmental issues raised as concerns
were: 61% o f the public thinks the project may bringabout damage to the eco-environment to a certain
extent (such as damage to the trees) ifthe project is inappropriately implemented, and 30%, 6% and 3% o f
the public believe the project will cause impact on water body pollution, construction noise and air
pollution, respectively.
5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
M&Eindicators have beenprepared, basedonthe logicalframework analysis andthe EA-EMP. These
indicators would form the basis on which to measure environmental impact and would reflect the objectives
andresults ofthe EMP section ofthe EA. Principles ofparticipatoryM&Ewouldbe adopted.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The project's principal social issue is achieving effective andappropriate outreach to the poorest and most
disadvantagedvillages and households, ethnic minority groups, and women andgrrls. Ethmc minority
people comprise the majority o f the project's beneficiaries, and the success o f the project will depend
critically onprovidingthese people with full participatory access to the entire range o fproject activities.
These project activities mustbe tailored to the expressedneeds o f the individual ethnic minority groups
and, to the full extent possible, should be designed and determined by the ethnic minority people
themselves. Several of the ethnic minority groups inthe project area, including the Wa people inYunnan,
the Yi people inSichuan, andthe Miao (Hmong) people inGuangxiandelsewhere, are among the poorest
andmost severely disadvantagedinall ofChina. The diversity of the many ethntc minority groups, and
their remoteness andlanguagedifferences, make this one ofthe principal challenges to successfulproject
design andimplementation.

The project preparation processhas directly addressedthis challenge. First, an intensive Social Assessment
has helpedidentify the poorest communities, clarify the special characteristics and needs o f the most
disadvantagedethnic minority groups, determine gender-basedinequalities, detail the decision-making
process at the village level, and otherwise inform the project o f the social context at the local level. The
Social Assessment is summarized inAnnex 11and is included inthe PIM. Second, Ethnic Minority
Development Plans (EMDP) for six of the project counties have beencompletedto insure that ethnic
minoritypeople receive preferentialaccess to the project benefits inthose counties where ethnic minority
people comprise less thanhalfo f the county population. An overall Ethnic Minority DevelopmentPolicy
Framework has also beenestablished. Third, the participatory approach developed duringproject
preparation helps empower the poorest villages, the most disadvantaged ethnic minority groups, and women
andgirls to demandfull accessto all project benefits andto better define, implement, and evaluate the
project. Fourth, for the first year program where specific investment programs have been identified, Ethmc
Minority Development Plans (EMDP) have been completed for six o f the project non-ethnic minority



                                                     - 26 -

autonomous counties. Inthe twelve project counties which are ethmc minority autonomous counties, the
county project plans, developed under the participatory process, are considered as EMDPs themselves.

Limitedandscattered landacquisitionwill be requiredfor some ruralineastructure activities, but no
physical relocation of people is anticipated to be necessary. Basedon the programmatic nature o f the
project, a two-step approach has beenadopted. An overall project Resettlement Policy Framework has
beendeveloped to guide future planningefforts incase o f any resettlement or land acquisition needs. For
the activities requiringlandacquisitioninthe first year program, Resettlement Action Planshave been
prepared.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
China's current poverty reduction program could be further improved through greaterparticipation o f poor
communities and disadvantaged groups. The project's approach is, therefore, poor people-centered, with
the focus is on mountainous areas, minorities and other disadvantaged groups. Special attention is givento
including particularly poor natural villages and marginalised groups (including the poorest households,
women, ethnic minorities, and the disabled). It is a basic premise o f PRCDP that the nature andcauses of
poverty differ fromplace to place, between individuals and groups, between genders, andbetween ethnic
minorities. It is not possible to effectively address poverty by applying a single solution inall locations. The
differentneedso fdifferent poverty groups mustberecogmzedandrespected, andthe project is tailored to
address different specific needs at the lowest possible level (that is, including poor groups within natural
villages).

The project buildson the participatory analysis o f poverty andvulnerability, andemploys participatory
planningat the village level. Participatory techniques are employedthroughout the project cycle to ensure
that activities are driven by poor peoples' priorities, that these are reflected inannual planning processes,
andthat access to funds is demand-driven. The participation processwill be systematically monitoredboth
by the communities themselves andthe project management (as part ofthe wider M&E)to ensurethat poor
andmarginalisedgroups are included.

The participatory poverty assessment developed as the first stage o f participatory planning is beingused to
identify the poorest andmost excluded households and social groups within poor villages. Implementation
of PRCDP will be basedon ParticipatoryPlans which are unique to the place andthe people that created
them. All targetedvillages inPRCDPneedto produce their ownParticipatoryPlans and all villages need
to be engagedina participatory mannerbeyondthe planningprocess, which means that communities must
be able to participate fully inall aspects o f the project cycle (needs assessment, planning, implementation,
and M&E).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The social andparticipatory assessments included extensive consultations at the village andtownship
levels. These consultations involveda very wide range o f farm households, people with disabilities, women
andchildren, the elderly, andlocalofficials andvillage leaders. Additionally, the provincial PMOs andthe
BanMDFIDproject team consulted extensively such groups as the All China Women's Federation, ethnic
minority representatives, andDisabled People's Federations at the national, provincial and county levels.
The Chinese Government has also stressed the need to better include NGOs and civil society inits poverty
reductionprogram, andconsiders PRCDP to be an important opportunity to advance this national goal.
The provincial PMOs and the Bank/DFIDteam consulted with several international andnationalNGOs,
including Karamosia (Japan), the China Poverty Alleviation Foundation (China), andHeifer International
(US). At present, Handicap Internationalis working closely with the Sichuan Disabled People's


                                                       -27-

Federation, the Sichuan Provincial PMO, andYuexi County PMO staff to help conceptualize the
Disabilities Assistance Pilot Activity.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project M&Esystem, whichbuildsonthe successful experience of SWPRP andQBPRP, comprises
both an "intemal" physical monitoring andinformation system and an independent impact assessment
system. The independent impact assessmentsystemincludes both a quantitative program, basedon annual
surveys o f 1800project and nonproject households, and a qualitative program which will be dnvenby the
expressedviews o f the primary beneficiaries. Grant funding is beingsought to provide technical assistance
to ensure that the methodology usedintegrates both quantitative and qualitative methodologies for poverty
assessment.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance intenns o f social development outcomes?
The project M&Esystemswill specifically measurethe impact ofproject activities on equity as well as
absolute poverty reductioninorder to extendthe benefits o f the project to poorer households and
individuals. The M&E system will also yield poverty lessons on reaching the very poorest to support
Government priority to improve the efficiency o f poverty funds.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.

Environment: The EMP includes an environmentalsupervision plan, an environmental protection action
planandan environmental monitoring plan. These plansprovide anumber ofmeasuresto reduce negative
impacts. For infrastructure works these include: (a) the examinationo f initial designs for roads including
routing, investment inenvironmental protection, materials acquisition andspoil disposal; (b) the monitoring
of construction works for all infrastructure to ensure no excess materials usage and disposal, compliance
with mitigationandmonitoring measuresproposed, publication ofrequirements inlocalareas and
investigationo fproblems; and (c) checking o fproblems during operation o f facilities and impacts on
nearbypopulations. For agncultural activities these include: (a) examinationo f initial design including
investmentinenvironmental protection andscale o fanimal production; (b) analysis andinspectionof
implementationand mitigation measures for disposal o fpesticide residues, fertilizer pollution, plastic film
pollutionandlivestock waste; (c) promotiono f IPM andINMand closed cycle projects; (d) monitoring o f
application o fpesticides, fertilizers andplastics andanimal waste disposal; and (e) review o f any epidemic
handling and regular monitoringandfollow-up. For other investments, such as health andeducation, these
include the examination o fplans (especially investments for treating sewage and hospital waste) andthe


                                                     - 28 -

regular follow-up o f waste disposal.

Indigenous Peoples: An intensive Social Assessmenthas helpedidentify the poorest communities, clarify
the special characteristics andneedsof the most disadvantagedethnic minority groups, determine
gender-based inequalities, detail the decision-making processat the village level, and otherwise inform the
project o f the social context at the local level. Second, the project has developed aparticipatory approach
for village level project planning. A village participatory planningmanual has been developed under the
project for village investment. This participatoryprocesswould empower the targeted ethnic minority
communities and drive the decision-making process for the detailed project planning at village level. Third,
given the programmaticnature of the project, a policy framework for ethnic minority people's development
has beenprepared for future project planning.Fourth, for the first year program where specific investment
programs have beenidentified, EMDPs have been completed for six o f the project non-ethnic minority
autonomous counties. Inthe twelve project counties which are ethnic minority autonomous counties, the
county project plans, developed under the participatoryprocess, are considered as EMDPs themselves. (In
China, the term "indigenous peoples" refers to "ethnic minority peoples.")

Involuntary Resettlement: Limitedandscatteredlandacquisition will be required for some rural
infrastructure activities, but no physical relocationo fpeople i s anticipated to be necessary. Dueto the
programmatic nature o f the project, a two-step approachhasbeenadopted. An overall project Resettlement
Policy Framework has been developed to guide future planning efforts incase o f any resettlement or land
acquisitionneeds. For the activities requiringland acquisition inthe first year program, Resettlement
Action Plans have been prepared.

F. Sustainability and Risks

1. Sustainability:
The experience o f SWPRP and QBPRP indicates that overall project sustainability is highly likely. Most
importantly, experience has shown that the higher level o f ownership o f the planning andimplementation
processby the villages andvillagers, andthe degree to which the infrastructure provided becomesbroadly
owned, provides a sound basis for subsequent effective operation and maintenance. The project's primary
beneficiaries will have beendirectly responsible for plantingtrees, improving crop production, expanding
animal husbandry, andall other activities on their own farms. These farm households directly receive the
benefits from these improvements andare vitally interested insustaining the improvements and increased
benefits derived from these activities. Insome cases, sustainability o f individualactivities has been
underminedby unusual weather (such as a deep winter freeze sufficient to killtrees), animal diseases, or
market collapse for niche crops. However, the wide diversity o f the project's agricultural activities and the
techcal overview provided by local bureau staff mean that such events are rare and limited inscale, and
therefore do not threaten overall project sustainability.

O&M of project community works andservices, including schools and primary education, health clinics
and public health care services, rural roads, drinking water andsmall-scale irrigationsystems, do require a
community-level commitment and funding for O&M activities. Past experience shows that project villages
directly benefit from these works andservices and are therefore highly committed to their maintenance
duringandbeyondthe project implementationperiod. County andtownship governments also have a
demonstratedcapability o f assisting villages withthe O&M o f these community works and services.




                                                      - 29 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptionsfound inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):

The financial sustainability of the project requires adequate funding o f the O&M costs o f project
investments. Ownership of the planningand implementation process by villagers through the participatory
approach provides a sound basis for subsequent effective O&M. However, givenlimited resources
available to townships and villages for O&M, these costs shouldbe estimated as part o f subproject design
withplans agreed for how they will be financed. l%s requirementis includedinthe project's Participation
Manual and will be carefully monitored.

An important element of sustainability is replicability. Inorder to support the government policy of
promoting community participation, strengtheningoutreach to ethnic minority groups, andimproving
targeting, the project will pilot approachesthat can be readily replicatedbothwithin the project provinces
andinother provinces. Attentionhas therefore beenpaidto ensureboththe cost effectiveness andtechnical
feasibility o f the project design.

                      Risk                         Risk Rating                  Risk Mitiaation Measure
 Erom Outputs to Objective
 Poor counties are unable to mobilize                    S         :a) facilitate dialogue between Central
 start-up funds for the agricultural                               3overnment Agencies andprovincial
 zomponent and counterpart funds for                               governments to mobilize funds for the
 yblic good components causing delays to                           qyicultural component, and (b) closely monitor
 project start-up andprogress.                                     the availability o f start-up funding and intervene
                                                                   zarly to avoid significant delays
 Project funding repayment                              M          Strong supervision to ensure that at least 50%
 responsibilities lead to prioritization o f                       o f project budget i s allocated to public goods.
 investments in `productive activities' over
 `public goods.'
 Lack o f Central PMO makes project                     M          (a) the CLG must focus on the key activities
 coordination andsupervision difficult.                            required for coordination and supervision, (b)
                                                                   the provincial PMOs must clearly understand
                                                                   the processes,reporting and logistical
                                                                   requirements for implementation, and(c) the
                                                                   provincial PMOs andline agencies at all levels
                                                                   musthave a clear division ofroles and
                                                                   responsibilities and work ina coordinated
                                                                   manner.
 Participationis not mainstreamed                        S         (a) ensuring that implementation guidelines for
 throughout the project and quality i s not                        all project components specify how participatior
 adequate.                                                         will be mainstreamed, (b) engaging technical
                                                                   specialists to analyse and document progress in
                                                                   advance o f supervision missions, (c) township
                                                                   andcounty facilitators and associatedcounty
                                                                   bureau staff receive capacity buildingtraining .
                                                                   and support from provincialPMOs, (d)
                                                                   independent reviewo fparticipationduring
                                                                   implementation, (e) community monitoring o f
                                                                   the participationprocess addresses quality as
                                                                   well as coverage, (f) monitoringperformance
                                                                   targets during supervision, and (g) engaging


                                                       - 30 -

                                                                     with senior representativeswithinprovincial
                                                                     governmentsto encouragegood performance.
 From Components to Outputs
 Insufficient funding o f O&M costs at                   S           (a) participatory approach increases local
 county, township andvillage levels limits                           willingnessto contribute towards O&M, and (b)
 the long-term impact ofproject                                      provincial implementation guidelines require the
 investments.                                                        estimation o f O&M costs as part o f subproject
                                                                     design.
 Relationships betweenPMOs and sector                    S           (a) ensuring that implementationguidelines for
 bureaus are unclear and this undermines                             all project components specify the mechanisms
 project progress.                                                   for coordination andcollaborationbetween
                                                                     PMOs and sector bureaus, (b) ensuringthat
                                                                      sector bureaus are integrated into project
                                                                     planning and implementation(including capacig
                                                                     building), and(c) includingsector bureausinall
                                                                      feedback following supervision.
 Project implementation capacity and                     S            (a) compiling sex-disaggregated data to analyse
 commitment to address gender inequality                              local context for gender relations, differential
 are not sufficient to have the expected                              needsbetween women andmen, division o f
 impact on gender dimensions ofpoverty.                               labor and sharingo fburden, (b) implementing
                                                                      remedialmeasures (such as quotas, special
                                                                      sub-projectdactivities) inproject
                                                                      implementationplans, to support women and
                                                                      girls, and (c) assigning gender focal points and
                                                                      ensuring adequateresourcesare made available
                                                                      to support the mobilization o f women cadres
                                                                      including those from the All China Women's
                                                                      Federation and sector agencies for gender
                                                                      equality inproject villages.
 Overall Risk Rating                                     S
 Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri: ), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


 3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
 There are no knownpossible controversial aspects to the project. Review of SWPRP andQBPRP suggests
 that only the labor mobility and township andvillage enterprise development components couldbe
'controversial. The proposedproject does not include either o f these components.

 G. Main Loan Conditions
 1. Effectiveness Condition


  1. The Borrower willprovide the Bankwith ImplementationAgreements, acceptableto the Bank, entered
      into betweenthe Government andthe three project provinces.

 2. The execution of the Tripartite Arrangement by DFID, the Borrower andthe Bank.

  3.  Completion o f the first DFIDdeposit into the Trust Fund.




                                                        -31 -

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]

Disbursement Conditions

    Prior to any disbursementto Guangxi from the LoanAccount, Guangxiwill have trained the newly
    appointed project staff at the county project management offices on the application o f the Financial
    Management Manual andthe Bank's financial management, anddisbursementprocedures, ina
    manner, satisfactory to the Bank.

    Prior to any disbursement to Sichuan from the LoanAccount, Sichuan will have trained the newly
    appointed project staff at the county project managementoffices on the applicationo f the Financial
    Management Manual and the Bank's financial management, anddisbursement procedures, ina
    manner, satisfactory to the Bank.

    Prior to any disbursementto Yunnan from the Loan Account, Yunnan will (a) prepare a training plan
    andits operational guidelines for participatoryplanningina manner andsubstanceacceptableto the
    Bank, and(b) have trained the newly appointed project staff at the county project management offices
    on the application o f the Financial Management Manual andthe Bank's financial management, and
    disbursement procedures, ina manner, satisfactory to the Bank.


Implementation

Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, through the State Council's Leading Group
Office for Poverty ReductionandDevelopment, maintain, throughout the period o f implementation o f the
project, with composition, terms ofreference, staffing and other resourcesacceptable to the Bank, the
project CLG established within the Foreign Capital Project Management Center o f the State Council's
Leading Group Office for Poverty Reduction and Development, to be responsible for overall coordination
andoverseeingproject implementationat the provincialandlocal levels.

The Borrower will maintain throughout the project implementationperiod PMOs at the provincial and
county levels, with composition, terms o f reference, staffing andother resources acceptable to the Bank.
The provincial PMOs will prepare and furnishto the Bank detailed annual action andwork plans, which
include the following year's civil works plans, maintenance plan, and training programs, acceptableto the
Bank by October 31of each project year.

Sichuan andYunnanprovinces will have a learningsystem, as outlined inthe ParticipationManual, in
place for implementing the full participatory approach by March 31,2006.

Each o f the project provinces will undertake their participatory poverty assessments and participatory
planning, inaccordancewith the Phasing Plan and its respective Operational Guidelines for Participatory
Planning, ina manner and substance, satisfactory to the Bank.

Each o f the project provinces will (a) ensure, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, that at least 50% o f the
total cumulative project expenditures (including the Bank loan and the counterpart funds) have been
incurredon components 2 through 6 (that is, on all ofthe components other thanthe sustainablemountain
agriculture component) through the end o f each calendar year duringproject implementation, and (b)
ensure that farmers are not required to making contributions to the cost recovery for carrying out these
components (other than sustainable mountain agriculture).



                                                     - 32 -

Reporting and Monitoring

The Borrower will ensure that each project province shall maintain policies and procedures, adequateto
monitor andevaluate on an ongoingbasis, inaccordance with the project indicators satisfactory to the
Bank, the carryingout of its respectiveparts o f the project andthe achievement of the relevant objectives.

The Borrower will ensure that eachproject province prepares, under terms o freference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnishes to the Bank, the annual progress report not later thanApril 15 ineach calendar year,
integrating the results o f the M&Eactivities.

The Borrower will prepare a mid-termreport by September 1,2008 according to guidelines acceptableto
the Bank.

Financial

Eachproject province will have the records and accounts for each fiscal year audited, and will furnish the
audit reports to the Bank as soon as available, but inany case not later than six months after the end o f
each fiscal year.

Project Design

Eachproject province will carry out the project inaccordance with the PIM, acceptableto the Bank, which
includes (a) a Financial Management Manual, including reporting requirements andfinancial management
procedures, (b) the EnvironmentalManagement Plan, (c) the overall Resettlement Policy Framework, (d)
the Ethruc Minority Planning Framework and six EMDPs, (e) the ParticipationManual, (f) the Phasing
Plan, and (g) the Procurement Manual.

Eachproject province will provide to the Bank for its prior concurrence any proposed amendment to the
provisions o fthe PIM and, thereafter, will put into effect such amendment as shall have beenagreedwith
the Bank.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1,a) Theengmeeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecomplete andreadyforthestart
         o f project implementation.
H1.b) Notapplicable.

82. Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
       project implementation.
   3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):




                                                     - 33 -

I. CompliancewithBankPolicies
   1, This projectcomplieswith all applicableBankpolicies.
02.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarenxm"mdedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all otherapplicableBank policies.




AlanL.Piazza                           Mark D. Wilson  /4r-     David   Dollar
Team Leader                            SectorM8nrgerlDlrsctor    CountryManagerlDlrector




                                               -34-

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                  CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                    Key Perf                                       St
 Hierarchy of Objectives                 lndic                                                Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:               iectorl country reports:      rom Goal to Bank Mission)
Poor people in Western        1. New approaches and            ;overnment's annual report     suitable East Asia economic
Provincessustainably lifted   policies gradually                n social and economic        ivironment; a suitable
3ut of absolute poverty by    strengthenedfor poverty          levelopment; Bank's Sector    hinese macro-economic
2015.                         reduction at national level.      tudy,                        ivironment.
                              2. Numberof poor people in
                              target western counties and
                              townships reduced; increase
                              in income per capita;
                              decrease in income inequality.



Project Development           Outcome / Impact                  Voject reports:              'rom Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Improved livelihoods security 1. New approachesto poverty :hanges in vulnerability as        ack of central project
and sustained participation ofreductionexplored and             issessed through qualitative ianagement office makes
the poorest rural people in   promoted in strategies and        itudy in sample households   roject coordination and
project design,               plans of 3 project provinces.                                  upervision difficult
implementation and            2. Reducedvulnerability to
monitoring & evaluation       environmental degradation                                      :ounty level technical
achieved in 18 selected       (e.9. natural habitat, erosion,                                apacity to implement project
counties in three target      forests, vegetation cover,                                     omponents to low to ensure
provinces.                    biodiversity, native species).                                 uality means that
                                                                                             omponents do not have
                                                                                             mxpected impact.
                                                                                             :ommunity Capacity Building
                                                                                             inhanced capacity of poorest
                                                                                             .ommunitiesto manage
                                                                                             .ommunityactivities and to
                                                                                             iarticipate in project planning,
                                                                                             nplementation and decision
                                                                                             naking.
                                                                                             {elationships between PMOS
                                                                                             ind sector bureaus remain
                                                                                             inclear and undermine projec
                                                                                             rogress.

                               Sustained Particbation           3ocumentation of             'articipation is not
                                                                Darticipation Process        nainstreamedthroughout the
                               3. Project villages collectively :PPA/PPIPI/PM&E)as           roject and quality is not
                               plan projects in a gender        available in the project     idequate.
                               inclusive and culturally         :om munities
                               appropriate way and                                           Jlanningand management
                               implement them in a timely       'ocus group interviews in    irocedures give space for
                               manner by year 3.                selectedvillages             :ommunity decision making
                               4. Project villages mobilise                                  and address household
                               internal resources and labour                                 :hoices.
                               for project implementation in
                               an equitable way by year 3.
                               5. At least 30% of
                               participants in decision
                               making meetings during
                               planning and implementation


                                                           - 35 -

are women and they voice
their opinions and concerns
during those meetings by year
3.

ImprovedLivelihoods&               ousehold income data as        Poor counties are unable to
Security                           3Ilected through               mobilise start-up funds for the
                                   xio-economic survey in         agricultural component and
6. The percentageof                ample villages                 counterpart funds for public
households below the 625                                          infrastructure investments
RMBand 882 RMB poverty             hanges in livelihoodsas        causing delays to project
lines is reduced more in           ssessed through qualitative    start-up and progress.
remote project natural villages    tudy
comparedto non-project                                            Land conversion program and
villages by year 5.                                               agriculture industrialization
7. All householdshave                                             doe not reduce households'
diversifiedtheir sources of                                       access to productive land.
income more in project
villages than non-project
villages and 50% of women
participating in project
activities have improved
access to household-owned
land and livestock by year 5
(including for remote natural
villages).

Improved Basic Rural               ;ex-disaggregatehousehold       Inhanced economic activities
Infrastructure                     ata collected through           n project villages increases
                                   ocio-economic survey in         vomen's workload.
8. The reproductiveworkload        ample villages
of women (e.g carrying water
and fire wood) in all project
villages is reduced by year 5.
9. Journey times to project
villages is improved and trave
is more reliablethrough better
roads and increased transport
services available to all
villagers.

 ImDroved key health               lillage level data available in ?oor people have enough
outcomes                           :ountybureaus                   wrchasing power to pay for
                                                                   squired services.
 10. Infant Mortality and          lillage level data collected
 Maternal Mortality rates is       hrough socio-economic           Clean drinking water provided
 reduced in project villages       iurvey                          nith better access in project
compared to non-project                                            counties.
 villages by year 5.
 11. The incidenceand death
 rate of infectious diseases is
 reduced significantly in projec
 villages compared to
 non-projectvillages by year 5.
 Improved kev education            /illage level data available in Limits on investments in
 outcomes                          :ounty bureaus                  hardware are maintained.

 12. The primary school drop       /illage level data collected    Focus on village teaching
 out rate for girls and boys in    hrough socio-economic           points is maintained.
 project areas is reduced


                              - 36 -

                                                                   iurvey
                                 significantly more in project
                                 Allages compared to
                                 ion-project villages by year 5.
                                 13. The primary school
                                 :ompletion rate for girls and
                                 3oys in project areas is
                                 ncreased significantly more in
                                 xoject villages comparedto
                                 ion-project villages


Iutput from each                 Output Indicators:                'roject reports:               from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
.Sustainable   Mountain          1.1 100%of householdstake         lata on agricultural training  .arge enterprises are not
\griculture:                     3art in agricultural training     available in county PMOs       'RCDP loan recipients but
\ broad number of                and 30% of agricultural            sex-disaggregatenumber of     ,articipate as project partners
iouseholds in project            :raining participants are          rainees, number of            o facilitate household access
:ommunitiesachieve               "omen.                             louseholds receiving project  o information and market.
nproved assets, skills and       1.2 Project financial support is inancial support, number of
iccess to local services in      availableto all households         iouseholds investing in       lesign of funding channel for
liversified & environmentally    that have expressed interest       animal raising or fodder      3gricultureleads to poor
iustainable upland agricultural during participatory planning       jevelopment)                  argeting of project financial
ictivities.                      exerciseswithin two years                                        ;Upport to households.
                                 after start of implementation.     DP documentation available ir
                                 1.3 Significant investment by      xoject villages               Joor households do not lose
                                 women and men in animal                                          jccess to communal land as i
                                 raising or fodder development      dillage and household level   .esult of project activities.
                                 using project financial            jata collected through
                                 support.                           socio-economicsurvey

                                                                    Focusgroup interviews in
                                                                    selectedvillages

2. Basic Rural Infrastructure:   2.1 Sustainable technologies       Data on umbers of working     Farmers can afford to pay for
Sustainableinfrastructure        for mountainous areas              biogas, energy saving stoves,  mproved services.
xovision to assist improved      demonstrated,functioning anc       use of ICD initiatives etc.
access to markets & social       replicated.                        monitored by Provinces and    Migration does not affect
jervices achieved.               2.2 No. of communities/poor        counties                      project performance.
                                 that receive improved
                                 infrastructure (e.g. roads,        Focus group interviews in     Women's work-load doesn't
                                 tracks, paths, communication selected villages                   increase during all stages of
                                 facilities, electricity, housing                                 implementationlconstruction.
                                 improvement, small water
                                 conservatory works, schools 8
                                 health facilities etc.).
                                 2.3 Women's labour
                                 contributions to infrastructure
                                 does not interfere with the
                                 busy agricultural seasons and
                                 the workload allocated to
                                 women is not higher than for
                                  men.

3. Basic Education: Improved      3.1 1208village schools and        Monitoring data available in  Relationships between PMOs
squitable access to basic         teaching points are converted      provincial PMO                and education bureaus remain
?ducationfor children             to be community learning                                         unclear and undermine project
:schooling) and adults            centres, effectively integrating   Focus group interviews in     progress.
:literacy and skills training) in schools and communities by         selected villages
Droject villages achieved.        year 5.


                                                                - 37 -

                               .2 More than 61,000 person
                               laysof training providedto
                               pgrade teachers' practical
                               kills and capacity in both
                               lassroom teaching and adult
                               aining by year 5.
                               .3 All community members
                               indertakeat leastone
                               xhnical training provided by
                               l e community learning
                               entres which enhance their
                               apacity to take up project
                               loverty reduction initiatives by
                               ear 5.

.  Basic Health: Increased     ..I tohealthcarefor
                                   Access                      Aonitoring data available in   ?oor people have enough
ccess to improved health       i e poor in project villages hasirovincial PMO (number of      purchasing power to pay for
ervices and facilities         nproved and the costs for       ioor persons receiving project required services.
articularly for the most       lealthcare have been reduced #ubsidiesfor healthcare and
isadvantaged groups            ~yyear 3 compared to            he total amount of money       Clean drinking water provided
chieved.                       ion-projectvillages.            ;pent on this in each county)  with better access in project
                               ,.2 Hospital delivery rates                                    counties.
                               icrease more in project         lillage and household level
                               ,illagesby year 5 compared      lata collected through         Relationshipsbetween PMOS
                               s non-project villages.         iocio-economic survey          and health bureaus remain
                               1.3 Increased quality of                                       unclear and undermine projeci
                               nedical staff, as measured by                                  progress.
                               l e number of male and
                               amale health workers at
                               swnship and village levels
                               nat receive technical training
                               romthe project each year,
                               ind total person-days.

i. Community Capacity          ;.I ofpoor
                                   Proportion                  locumentation of               Participation is not
3uilding: Enhanced capacity    iouseholds and marginal         Jarticipation Process          mainstreamedthroughout the
if poorest communities to      iocial groups directly involved :PPAIPPIPIIPM&E)as             project and quality is not
nanage community activities    idecision-makingandprojec       wailable in the project        adequate.
ind to participate in project  ilanning, implementation and    :ommunities
)lanning, implementation and   nonitoring during all stages                                   Planning and management
lecision making.               iy year 3:                      =ocusgroup interviews in       proceduresgive space for
                                  0  Women: minimum 30%                                       community decision making
                                     (year 3) - 50% (year 5)   selected villages
                                                                                              and address household
                                  0  People from different                                    choices.
                                     ethnic minorities: at leas
                                     proportionally
                                     represented
                                  0  Poor and remote natural
                                     villages: 100%
                                  0  The majority of
                                     participants would come
                                     from marginal groups
                                     within the
                                     above-mentioned group5

                               5.2 Project Implementation       cumen en tat ion of
                               Groups at village level:        Participation Process
                                  0  include at least 60 %     (PPAIPP/PI/PM&E)as
                                     poor people               available in the project
                                  0  include at least 30%      communities


                                                            - 3%-

                                   women
                                0  are set up and             :ocusgroup interviews in
                                   functioning according to   electedvillages
                                   communityagreed
                                   principlesand consistent
                                   with the PM by year 2.
                                0  maintain complete
                                   documentationon the
                                   entire planningand
                                   implementationprocess
                                   by year 3.
                             5.3 ParticipationApproach        iterviews with
                             mplementedaccording to the       scilitators and
                             irinciples laid down in the PM   3cus groups in
                             n all project communities by     ,electedcounties and
                             !008 and monitored by county Dwnships during
                             and provincial PMOs              upervision
                             xcording to the indicators
                             ncluded in the PM by 2009.

                             -earnina svstem/Traininaand      locumentation of training        'raining and support service
                             :apacitv buildina for PRCDP      ictivities and training material irovidersdelivedfacilitate
                             5.4 Project provinceshave        ivailable in county PMOs.        iccessto quality technology
                             jeveloped training aids and                                       ippropriate to mountain
                             iperation manuals covering       nterviewswith                    ireas, especially in animal
                             all phases of participatory      -rainers, facilitators and focus aising.
                             xoject planning,                 lroups in
                             mplementationand                 ;elected counties and
                             nonitoring and using gender      ownships during supervision
                             sensitive and culturally
                             3ppropriatetools by year 2
                             3nd these are upgradedand
                             mproved on a regular basis to
                             nclude experiencesfrom
                             iroject villages.
                             5.5 All training supported by
                             his project uses participatory
                             nethods for training needs
                             assessment, delivery and
                             waluation and is tailored to
                             jifferent audiences, incl.
                             zthnic minorities and women,
                             iy year 3.
                             5.6 Environmental training is
                             .egularlyincorporated &
                             lelivered within all training
                             irograms of all
                             sub-components.

i. Project Managementand     5.1 Effectiveand                 'roject documentation            -ack of central project
Aonitoring system established:omprehensive project            wailable in county PMOs.         nanagement office makes
ind operational.             nanagement and M&E                                                iroject coordination and
                             jystem established 6 months      'roject documentation            ;upervision difficult.
                             jfter project effectiveness:     3vailable in villages.
                               0  specifies clear roles,                                       qelationships between PMOs
                                   responsibilities,           nterviews with project staff,   md sector bureaus remain
                                   relationships with line    acilitators and communities i Anclear and undermine projecl
                                  agencies, and procedures selected counties and               xogress.
                                  for resource allocations    ownships during supervision
                               0  generates regular project                                    Darticipation is not



                                                          *39 -

                              progress reports covering                               nainstreamedthroughout the
                              all logframe indicators                                 roject and quality is not
                           b  feedback from                                           Idequate.
                              communities obtained
                              through participatory
                              M&E is integratedin
                              project M&E
                           0  villagers (bothwomen
                              and men) feed back their
                              views, experiences and
                              opinions on project
                              implementation to the
                              township work stations
                              and these are recorded
                              by county PMOs by year
                              3.
                         6.2 County Project Bureaus
                         are implementing annual
                         learning exercisesthat are
                         used to assess experiences
                         and feedback from projects
                         villages and adjust their
                         annual planning accordingly
                         by year 3.

                         'roiect Coveracle               donitoring data available in County level technical
                         5.3 The bottom third of         'rovincial PMOs              capacity to implement project
                         loorest households in all                                    componentstoo low to ensure
                         lroject natural villages                                     quality means that
                         :includingall different ethnic                               components are not
                         groups) receive project                                      sufficiently targeted.
                         assistancewithin the first 3
                         (ears.                                                       Poor counties are unable to
                         5.4 Coverage (whole range of                                 mobilise start-up funds for the
                         xoject benefits) of the poores                               agricultural component and
                         :hirdof the administrative                                   counterpart funds for public
                         iillages achieved by year 3.                                 infrastructure investments
                                                                                      causing delays to project
                                                                                      start-up and progress
                         invironmental Monitorinq        'roject documentation
                         5.5 Maps in use & being         availablein county PMOs.
                         Jpdated at township and
                         :ounty levels for planning,
                         nonitoring & evaluation.
                         5.6 EA-EMP annually
                         .eviewedand updated during
                         iroject implementation, and
                         appropriate environmental
                         :rainingincorporated within
                         ,hetraining programs of all
                         sub-components.


'roject ComponentsI       nputs: (budgetfor each         ?rojectreports:              (from Componentsto
jub-components:          zomponent)                                                    Outputs)
2omDonent I:                                             2uarterly and special reports
Sustainable Mountain
igriculture:
4 broad number of
iouseholds in project



                                                      -40-

communities achieve
improved assets, skills and
access to local services in
diversified & environmentally
sustainable upland agriculturz
activities.

 Component II:                           ruarterly and special reports
Basic Rural Infrastructure:
Sustainable infrastructure
provision to assist improved
access to markets & social
services achieved.

Component Ill:                           ruarterly and special reports
Basic Education: Improved
equitable access to basic
educationfor children
[schooling) and adults
(literacy and skills training) in
projectvillages achieved.

ComDonent IV:                            2uarterly and special reports
Basic Health: Increased
access to improved health
services and facilities
Darticularlyfor the most
disadvantaged groups
achieved.

Somoonent V:                             juarterly and special reports
Zommunity Capacity Building:
Enhancedcapacity of poorest
:ommunities to manage
:ommunity activities and to
3articipate in project planning,
mplementation and decision
naking.

ZomDonent VI:                            2uarterly and special reports
'roject Managementand
Monitoringsystem established
and operational.




                                     -41-

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

By Component:

Project Component 1 Sustainable MountainAgriculture US$62.90 million
                       --                                    -

General Features. The component will provide material andtechnical support to most o f the 390,200
households who live inthe 1,008 project villages inorder to allow them to improve, diversify anddevelop
their productive activities. Project activities are being determinedby the beneficiary households
themselves. A focus of farmer choices on household-basedanimal husbandry is expected since most
villages are located inmountainous areas. The component is therefore designed to ensurepropoor
development o f animal raising, with sustainablelanduse andimprovedmarket access. Component
activities will be implemented as part o f comprehensive village development programs. The component is
divided into three subcomponents: (a) improvedhousehold agriculture, (b) fanner-to-fanner services, and
(c) technical support.

Overall Approach to Agricultural Development. Integrated investments insmall-scale infrastructure
(especially domestic water supply), crop production and animal production remain an easy-to-implement,
well-adapted project approach to reducing vulnerability inproject villages. The approach has the potential
to increase and stabilize the very low and unevenfarm incomes. Foodsecurity is still a critical issue
among poorest communities, and can only be addressedthrough these small integrated improvements. The
development o f diversified, household-basedanimal husbandry is a meansto make livelihoods more secure
through an increase inhousehold assets. It is also an important income generating opportunity both
directly through animal sales, and indirectly becausethe increased use o f animal manure allows a shift to
agricultural products with reduced use o f agrochemicals inresponseto market demand. Animal husbandry
development can be environmentally sustainableprovided grass andother fodder resources are developed
and managed better. The techrucal, environmental and market development rationale o f the component i s
detailed inthe PIM.

RegionalApproach to Agricultural Development. The project areas include not less than seven regions
with comparatively homogeneousagroecologcal andhuman environments. Eachcounty government
expects to develop through the component a small number o f commodities including nuts, tea, medicinal
herbs, spices and"health foods," beef cattle, pigs, goats or poultry. The component's participatory
approach will facilitate more diversified choices among project communities, anda shift away from more
risky commodities to simpler, propoor productive activities. The `agricultural development approach'
attachment to the PIMprovides a basis for a dialogue with county governments duringproject
implementationon how to respond to households' preferences inthe poorer sections o f project counties.

Participatory Approach. Component activities will be implementedineach administrative village as part
of a comprehensive village development program andon the basis o f PRCDP's participatory approach. A
component implementationworkplan integrating the participatory approach is included inthe PIM. Key
steps include (a) provision by township facilitators o f information onproductive activities to allow
informed decision-making by communities, (b) training anddemonstration activities selectedby the
communities themselves, and (c) community monitoringo f householdprogress inreceiving andusing
project support. The provincial feasibility studies have retainedthe "subproject" format for intemal
planning purposes. Each "subproject" relates to one crop or one animal speciesbeingpromotedby a
county government through its development plans. Duringimplementation, "subproject" planning is



                                                       - 42 -

expected to be limitedto the planningo f resources for the provision of technical support and for facilitating
access to critical agncultural inputs. Project expenditures will be reported based on actual expenses
incurred under subcomponent activities, not on the basis of standardsubproject unit costs.

Targeting. Most mountainadministrative villages inthe project areahave a number o f natural villages
with more difficult access andoverall significantly greaterand deeper poverty levels. Proactive targeting of
these poorest natural villages will take place through a combination o f (a) facilitation, participation and
monitoring processesinclusive o fpoorer natural villages for all components, and(b) specific attention
underthe agriculture component to investment andtraining needsfor productive activities that are
appropriate to poorer villages; these activities will generally relate to food security and animal husbandry.
At the household level, there is generally anumberofhouseholdswith higher capacities within eachvillage,
and at the other end a proportion o f absolute poor households. The PRCDP participatory process identifies
specific solutions for poorer households within communities. At the same time, PRCDP invites households
with higher capacity to invest into local services that are useful for their poorer neighbors.

Subcomponent 1: Improved Household Agriculture. All households inproject villages would have
access to a householdsupport scheme to develop their productive activities. The households would use
project support to secure: (a) for animal raising activities: young animals, materials for animal housing
improvements, forage seeds, supplementary feed, small tools, andveterinary and breedingservices; (b) for
food securitv activities: improved seed, limitedquantities o f chemical fertilizer, andsmall tools; (c) for cash
crop activities: seed, chemical fertilizer andpesticides inappropriate types andquantities, and small tools;
and(d) for tree crop activities: tree seedlings, chemical fertilizer andpesticides inappropriate types and
quantities, hiredlabor for tree planting when necessary, and small tools. Small works required to ensure
environmental sustainability would be budgeted.

Subcomponent 2: Farmer-to-Farmer Services. Most villages have a small number o f households with
greater financial capacity. At the same time, local availability o f services is an important constraint within
these mountain communities. Some households will therefore be eligible for small-scale project support
underthe conditionthat they invest into activities to provide services to other community members,not
directly into agricultural production. These microenterprises are expected to cover a large range of
activities, from production andmarketing to the provision o f multiple services. This subcomponent solely
targets project households. County or township enterprises are not eligible.

Subcomponent3: Technical Support. Agricultural extension services inthe project area are undergoing
rapidchange. Government extension systems remain well-established andthe only extension providers in
some townships, while agnbusiness enterprises have become major service providers inother areas and in
sectors such as fruits andvegetables. Individualfarmers are also becoming important providers. The
project will invite diversified organizations, including government extension stations, agribusiness
enterprises, training centers andNGOs, to undertake training and technical support activities that are
identifiedto be best adaptedto the needso f communities inthe project area andto the constraints of
mountain areas. Activities supported by the project include: (a) small-scale demonstrations carried out by
households with support from technicians; demonstration results will be sharedamong interest groups; (b)
joint training courses at the township for township techcians and service-providing farmers; (c) training
days and cross-visits for households inproject villages (budgeted under the capacity buildingcomponent
together with other skill development activities); and (d) the production o f information leaflets, posters and
VCDs/DVDs. These activities would be implementedthrough village visits by township facilitators, The
project would cover field allowances andprocurement o f motorcycles and pickups. Short-term technical
assistance has also beenbudgeted. Priority needs for technical assistance include (a) the preparation o f
information materials to ensure supply o f quality materials adapted to the specific needs o f the targeted


                                                      - 43 -

audiences, and (b) assistancefor market development, since e t h c minority areas face a distinct issue o f
coping with underdeveloped marketing systems.

Animal Raising. Environmentally-friendly andpro-poor animal raisingwouldbe supported through a
combination o f activities under the three subcomponents.Under subcomponent 1, the numbero f poor
households not owning any animal assets wouldbe substantially reduced, while animal vaccination would
decreaserisks o f animal loss; labor productivity would increase through improvements inanimal housing
andinforage andanimal manurehandling-atopic of special concern among ethnic minoritywomen (see
Social Assessment); forage seeds would become a more commonly-used agriculturalinput; andfarmers
would establish-forage grass undertrees on converted sloped landandinanti-erosion grass belts. Under
subcomponent 2, breeding and animal health services wouldbecome available inmore villages, and some
forage seed would be locally multiplied.Under subcomponent 3, communities would test improved
collective management o f grazing lands, andhouseholdswould be trained intechniques that minimize
environmentalimpact such as fodder managementand animal disease prevention. Finally, the project would
facilitate linkages betweenproducers and market operators. The establishment o f farmer technical
associations would be encouraged.

FoodCrops and Food Security. Foodsecurity would be reinforced through one or severalproject
activities. Inproject areas with widespread food security problems, improved seed and appropriate
technology would be extended to broad numbersof households. This includes the extension o f virus free
potatoes inthe Liangshanmountains (Sichuan province) ando f improved technical packages for upland
rice and for maize inthe Wa counties (Yunnan province). Incommunities with some lesser proportion o f
food deficit households, demonstrations andtraining inimproved crop managementtechniques would be
organized, and cash crop development on farmlandwhere food crops are grown would only take place
gradually. InSichuan Province where the nationalprogram to convert sloped farmland into forestry land is
still ongoing, the project would coordinate closely with the program. This would ensure that the program is
directed to households that have already reached food security andare willing to set aside their less fertile
plots for perennial uses.

Cash Crops and Tree Crops. Project support to households would primarily cover the purchase of seed
or seedlings, small tools and soil erosion measures. Pesticides and chemical fertilizer applications would be
reduced. Packagingandtransportation o f cash crop andtree crop products, as well as primary tea
processing, are expected to be important farmer-provided services that will be developed with project
support.

HouseholdEligibilityto ProjectSupport. Average project support to households would be small enough
to allow all or most households to apply for project support. This would be achieved by capping total
project support available to any household at 2,000 yuan for agnculture improvement. The project support
to individual households for agriculture improvement would be sufficient to cover the cost o f all
agncultural inputsplus unexpectedcosts. The amount to be invested indeveloping microenterprises would
be determined inthe specific VDP (basedon the participatory methodology), with a maximuminvestment
ina singleenterprise of 50,000 yuan, plusamaximum share of 30% ofthe total cost ofthe VDP. At the
county level, investment inmicroenterprises would amount to less than 15% o f the total investments inthat
county   . Overall, project support is expected to be on average around 1,800 yuan per household for both
activities, agriculture improvement and microenterprises, consideringa total beneficiary population o f
300,000 households. Women-led households and microenterprises will be prioritized for project support.

Management of HouseholdSupport Scheme. Project support wouldbeprovided inamannerwhich
ensures timely provision o f quality agncultural inputs inremote communities. Specific project staff


                                                     - 44 -

members (other than townshp facilitators) would assist with project support to be provided to households.
Eachprovince is setting up, prior to starting disbursingproject support to households, a computerized
monitoringsystem incorporating all households inproject villages and showing households definedas poor.
The P I M provides a set of regulations to ensure access of the poorest households as follows: (a) project
support would be capped at 1,000 yuan for first time household applications for agnculture improvement
inorder to avoidthe possibility that alarge share ofthe support schemeis consumedquicklybythe more
able andactive households; (b) there would be no requirement regarding household assets; (c) households
would form interest groups o f severalhouseholds that would commit to use project support for the intended
productive activity when this is believedto help poor households to participate; (d) disbursement calendars
of project support would fit the needs o f the poorest; this would often mean adjusting project activities to
animal raising seasonal calendars; and (e) households with reduced family labor (because some members
are away on off-farm work, are missing, or are otherwise not deemedvalid) would be equally eligible.

EnterpriseInvolvement. PRCDPrecognizes agribusinessenterprisesas key decision makers inmarket
development andagricultural input supply. Sound partnershipsbetweenthe project andenterprises that are
active inthe project area, mainly inthe form o f intensive informationexchanges, are therefore an important
element inbuildingviable and fair market access for households inthe project area. Enterprise
involvement guidelines have been included for that purpose inthe PIM. Enterprises will not channel
household project support but will be eligible to project funding for information, training andother support
services that they will provide inthe project area.

Propoor Focusof Training andTechnicalSupport. Appropriate technology guidelines have been
included inthe PIM as a facilitation tool for technical change. The guidelines call for the promotion o f
agricultural technology that i s appropriate to small-scale upland agnculture, is compatible with the cultural
values o f ethnic minority communities, and is based on standard quality agncultural inputs and works.
Training andtechnical support providers would submit, for reviewby the provincial PMOS,the technical
specifications that they would use or promote inthe project villages. Any discrepancy with the PRCDP
appropriate technology guidelines would be identified and resolved.

Linkagewith Other Components. The agncultural component is closely linkedto the ruralinfrastructure
component and to the capacity buildingcomponent. Sharedimplementation steps have been designed inthe
PIMworkplan whenever this is neededbecauseo f the integrated nature o f the project. Eachtownship
facilitator would be responsible for all three components ina numbero f villages. The information
materials prepared under the agriculture component would be disseminated through the participatory
process under the capacity buildingcomponent. Participatoryplanning and monitoring at community level
would be done incombination for the three components.

Project Component 2    -- BasicRural Infrastructure US$50.40 million
                                                    -

CurrentSituation. Project communities are typically situated inremote mountainous areas connectedby
roads or footpaths invery poor condition limitingaccess to markets and social services. Many villages
lack reliable water supplies; sanitation practices expose communities to a range o f communicable diseases;
cooking andheating is over wood fires with associatedhealth hazards; andmany villages lack access to
electricity and communications systems. Inthe project counties nearly half o f villages are not connected to
the road network, about 43% o f the rural population does not have reliable water supplies, and 19% o f
villages are not servedby electricity thus severely constraininglivelihoodopportunities. Households,
village leadersandgovemment officials place a highpriority on improvingthese infrastructure services and
demonstrate this by makingsignificant community contributions. A significant proportion o fproject
investment is allocated for rural infrastructure (3 1%inGuangxi, 32% in Sichuan and47% inYunnan).


                                                     - 45 -

However giventhe relative highcost o f infrastructure inthese situations, particular attention needs to be
givento facilities that best meetspoor people's priorities, are of anappropriate standard, and are
sustainable.

TargetingandApproach. Overall the ruralinfrastructure component will aim to increaseroad access up
to roughly 90% o f administrative villages, and extend potable water supply and electricity coverage to
about 86% and 95% respectively o f the project area population. It will support a range o f small scale
irrigation andwater conservancy works and landtransformation schemes where these are prioritised and
assist inmeeting the household demands for improved rural energy supplies and sanitation improvements.

A participatory menu-based selection process is to be usedto reflect community andhousehold priorities
andvillage development planningprocesses. Eachscheme needs to bejustifiedinterms ofthe criteria
mentioned and community priorities, supported where appropriate by community contributions. Particular
efforts have beenmade duringpreparation to exclude larger infrastructure works that do not makeoptimum
use of limitedproject funds interms o f direct benefits to poor target households and costs per household.
This still remains a project risk duringimplementation which will bemonitored.

ComponentDescription. Rural roads: This includes the construction of new roads andthe improvement
o f existing roads to Grade 4 or lesser standard as well as footpath and step improvements to smaller,
difficult-to-access villages. As there can be significant variations inaccess costs due to topography, road
lengthand standards, selection criteria includeunitcostsinrelationto the number ofvillages and
households served andalso reflect areas where a concentration o fproject improvements andpotentialwill
serve to generate significant traffic demands, as well as community prioritisation and funds available.
Local labour should be usedwhere possible andshould be paid for (as is stipulated by recent legislation
covering such public works).

Rural Water Supplies: This component would provide safe drinkingwater through a variety of schemes
including water tanks and rainwater harvesting, gravity pipedsystems, and river and groundwater
abstraction depending upon location andneed. Selection criteria include investment cost per household,
villages sufferingfrom seasonalwater shortages exceeding 60 days duration, villages where the water
source is more thanone kmdistance or there is more than lOOmdifference inelevation, and those villages
where the water quality of existing supplies are unacceptable due to chemical or biological pollutants.
Schemes would be low cost and the project will cover all necessarynon-local materials andtechnical
assistance, with non-skilled labour providedby beneficiaries. Operating andmaintenance responsibilities
andcost recovery will be identified for eachscheme as part o fthe approval prcess.

Dependingupon location, schemes would includewater tanks andrainwater harvesting, gravity piped
systems and river and groundwater abstraction. Where water supplies are adequate and additional costs
marginal, provision will be made for livestock as well as humans.

 Water Conservancy Works:A range o f small scale irrigation and drainage schemes are included,
comprisingpond improvements, weirs, cistems andcanals. Selection criteria will reflect costs per farmer
andcommunity prioritisation. The project will cover non-local materials, technical supervision supported
by community farm labour. Landtransformationworks comprising terracing andgrassland improvements
are also includedon the same basis.

Rural Energy: This includes some small-scale hydropower generation (10-2Okw only), anddistribution
lines and transformers where there are no other options andthese services are costed andprioritisedby
communities. Itmay also include assistanceinthe constructiono fbio-gas pits andprovisionof energy


                                                     -46-

saving stoves. This flexible menubasedapproach should be offered inall project areas. Householdbased
improvements (such as bio-gas or energy efficient stoves) should be on the basis o fhousehold loans or
expansion o f available government subsidies.

Sanitation: Improvement insanitation practises should be promoted through capacity buildingactivities
andhygiene promotion, demonstration facilities constructedat schools and community facilities and
supported by householdloans (for improvedlatrines as well as for more expensive bio-gas plants and septic
tanks).

Associated Building Works: Construction andexpansion of small ruralmarkets to improve trading are
included where these directly benefit and are prioritisedby project communities. Constructiono f education
andhealth facilities are includedunder those project componentsbutwill need to bejustifiedinterms of
direct benefits to the project communities andadequateprovision of staff andrecurrent budgets, with
attention to simple facilities for the more remote areas.

Linkages to Other Components. There will be careful attention to the phasing o f civil works. Inmany
cases the road improvements will be undertaken inYears 1and 2 to improve access prior to implementing
other project components and stimulating the expansion o f services to the villages and livelihood
opportunities. The proportion o fbuildingworks inthe health and education components and linked to
institutional strengthening andproject management will be carefully monitored. Opportunities shouldbe
taken to demonstrate improved sanitation facilities, such as ventilated latrines and water seal latrines and
the use of septic tanks by adding these to community buildings wherever possible.

Operations and Management. As part o f the design o f all infrastructure facilities, an operating and
maintenance planwill be agreedwith all the parties concerned, which includes clearly defined
responsibilities and the sources for any recurrent cost provision.

Project Component 3     -- BasicEducation US$ 8.60 million
                                           -
General Features. Despite notable achievements at the national level, primary schooling inthe proposed
project areas is still markedby poor attendanceandvery low on-time graduation rates, and adult education
opportunities are limitedandoften not relevant to local community development. There is a clear strong
demandfor basic education services, including adult functional literacy education. Parentsdirectly
shoulder the main education costs, and a significant portion o f the parents surveyed duringproject
preparation complained that they have difficulties inpaying schoolingfees for their children. Many o f the
teachers inthe project areas are not government employed, andtheir qualifications andskills are quite low
compared with the national and provincial standards. The teaching conditions inthe schools are quite basic
andmany ofthe buildings are considered dangerous andstructurally unsound. The government policy of
combining small teaching points into bigger schools has improved efficiency, but this has also caused
extreme difficulties with school access inthe most remote villages. The schools usually do not provide
regular adult basic education to the community members, and this has also caused a weak sense o f
community ownership of the schools.

OverallApproach to Education Development. Reducing the costs that poor ruralhouseholds pay for the
education o f their childrenis the most effective way o f increasing the enrollment andcompletion o fbasic
education inthe villages. It is also a key practical poverty reduction mechanism since reducing household
expenditures on education is equivalent to providing cash support to a large percentage o f families inthe
project areas. Buildingcommunity learning centers, by transforming the village schools and teaching
points, will act as the mainvehicle to promote the integrated development o f the communities andschools


                                                     -47-

inthe project areas. This will leadto the trainingofthe teachers withessentialknowledge andskills in
providingbasic adult education to the villagers.

Targeting. The component will address the challengesof (a) low accessto primary educationbypoorer
andmore vulnerable children, particularly girls anddisabled children, (b) ineffective and irrelevant adult
training andeducation for rural community development, (c) inadequate skills and capabilities o f many
teachers for both schooling andadult education, (d) the higheducation cost burdenfor the poorest families,
and(e) poor schooling infrastructure, mucho fwhich is inneedo frebuildingor repair.

The basic education component will include the following activities or subcomponentsto promote the
realizationo f the poverty reductionpurpose o f the project as whole:

Subcomponent1:Free EducationPilot. Inselectedproject areas, the free compulsory educationpilot
will be carried out inall the project villages to reducethe cost burdenon the poor families for sendingtheir
children to school. More than 17,000 boys and girls will have access to primary school without any charge
to their families. Ths will be equivalent to providing 200 yuan cash support to the poorest households in
the project villages.

Subcomponent2: CommunityLearningCenters. The development ofschools andcommunities will be
integrated with the transformation o fthe village schools into community learning centers. The village
schools andteaching points will be notjust open to the school age children but also to the community
members. About 65,500 square meters o fthe dangerous school buildings will be renovated or rebuiltwith
the supply of desks andchairs. New schools or teaching points will be established or rebuiltifthe villagers
express strong demands inthe community development plans. It is estimated that 1200o f such community
learningcenters will be established.

Subcomponent3: TeachersTraining. More than 61,000 persodtimes of teacher training will be trained
inpracticalteaching techniques. Qualification trainingwill not beprovidedsince it isnot the mostrelevant
to the realization o f the project purpose both interms o f timeliness andbudget. At least 15 percent of the
education component will be used for the various teacher training activities, especially for the teachers with
bilingual and multi-grade teaching needs. County-levelteachers inupgraded schools will be the main
training service providers to the teachers. The training programs will equip the teachers o f the village
primaryschools andteaching points with innovativeteaching methodologies andalso enablethem to
provide effective and relevant training and education to the community members.

Subcomponent4: Adult Basic Education. The village primary schools andteaching points will be
subsidized to provide training service to the adults inthe project villages with focus on functional literacy
education and also practical technical skills. The village schools or teaching points with less than 3
teachers will get 50 yuan subsidies for providingat least 100persodtimes o f training service to the
community members, and the schools withmore than 3 teachers will get 100yuan subsidies for training at
least 200 persodtimes o f the villagers intheir targeted service areas.

Linkagewith Other Components. To a certain extent, the basic education component will establish the
basis for the activities o f other project components. Specifically, the basic education component is closely
linkedwith the capacity buildingcomponent andthe agnculture component. Schools and teaching point
development will be a part o f the community development plans. The comunity learning centers will be
also usedas the main stage for providingother technical training to the villagers for the project activities o f
the other component. The training activities o f the adult basic education subcomponent will be arranged in



                                                      - 48 -

consideration o f the other technical training services provided from the other components to the villagers.

Project Component 4 Basic Health US$6.70million
                       --               -

Background. From 1949to the mid-1980s China witnessed substantial health improvement ofthe
population. For example, the infant mortality rate fell from about 250 per 1000 live births in 1952 to 34
per 1000 in 1985, and life expectancy increasedfrom about 35 years to 68 years inthe same period. These
were achieved through emphasizing preventionandpublic health, usingthe rural three-tier (village,
townshp andcounty) healthsystemto provide basic healthservices, and protectingpeople from
catastrophic medical expenseswiththe wide coverage o f cooperative medical system (CMS) inthe
countryside andthe government and labor medical insurance schemes inurbanareas.
The economic transitionbeguninlate 1970sand the fiscal decentralization since mid 1990's have
undoubtedly increased the overall economic growth. However, these reforms have also profoundly affected
the healthsector andthe rest o f the social services. With the collapse of commune collective economy the
CMS disappeared inmore than 90% o f rural communities. This has tumedvillage doctors loose to operate
as private practitioners and earn a living by prescribing and selling drugs and administeringinjections.
Health facilities inpoor rural areas found it increasingly difficult to survive and have to rely on user fees to
support their operations. Non-profitable preventivecare is inadequately funded inpoor regions as it relies
on the financing ability of local government. The cost to indwidual families of health care rose
substantially. Serious illness became a major cause o f household impoverishment. As a result, people's
health status has stagnated or even worsened inpoor areas beginninginthe 1980s.
The Government o f Chinahas recognizedthese healthchallenges andhas tried to reversethe situation. In
January 1997 the Central Government issued the Decision on Health Reform and Development whch
outlined the main policies and direction o f healthreform for the whole country. Inorder to promote rural
healthreform the State Council promulgatedthe Guidancefor Rural Health Reform and Development in
May 2001. And later inOctober 2002, the State Council again issuedthe Decision on Further
StrengtheningRural Health. These documents require related sectors and governments at all levels to
increase resource allocation to rural health, strengthenpublic health services, re-establish new rural CMS
with government financial subsidies to cover all ruralpopulationby 2010, and set up a national financial
medical assistanceprogram for the poorest. However, under current decentralized systemthese initiatives
inpoor regions will largelyrely onthe central fiscal transfer that is still under development now, andthe
new CMS is beingpiloted from 2003.
At this transitionperiod the poor counties under PRCDP are facing anumbero fworrying healthproblems.
Both township andvillage healthworkers are workmg invery poor conditions but tryinghardto provide
services as muchas they can. The hardship includes lack o f training opportunities, lack o f technical
support from andcollaborationwith higher levels, no basic equipment, andpartial or no receipt o f their
salaries. The overall capacity o f health service provisionis very poor, particularly at central township
hospitals, township health centers and village levels. Women andchildren living inthese counties cannot
get basic preventivecare, such as prenatal visits, attended delivery bytrained staff, post-natal care,
immunization, basic education on breast feeding, nutrition, STD/HIV/AIDS, etc. It is not rare that women
diedof undetectedpreventable maternal risks or late referral. Children are suffering or dyingfrom
preventable diseases includingpneumonia and diarrhea. Among school kids the major health problems are
degraded.vision, malnutrition, decayed tooth and intestinal parasitosis (mainly ascariasis). Due to the poor
living conditions andtraditional habits (e.g. living with livestock ina same buildingand eating raw meat of
pigandcattle), the infections of cestode (tapeworm) andlungtrematode are prevalent insome communities.




                                                      -49-

PRCDP Health Component. As an integral part ofapoverty reductionproject the healthcomponent will
aim at improving the healthstatus o f the population inthe project area through improved access to basic
health care. Specific objectives are reductions of the matemal mortality rate, infant mortality rate, andthe
incidence o f some key preventable infectious diseases. A number o fmonitoring indicators will be set by
each county. The project will support following activities:

1. Financialmedicalassistance to the poorest (MFA). The objective of MFA is to ensurethat the
poorest residents can utilize basic health care so as to protect them from fallingpoverty inducedby
catastrophic illness. A democratic procedure will be applied by communities to identifythe poorest
households as the target population. People inthe identifiedhouseholds can get a basic healthbenefit
package definedby each county: (a) free matemal care includingprenatal visits, delivery attendedby
skilledhealth staff andpost-natal care; (b) free vaccinations under EPI for children; and (c) exemptionof at
least 40 percent o f inpatient care expenses. The percentage to be subsihzed by the project will be decided
by eachcounty.

2. Essentialpublic healthinterventions. The objective o f essentialpublic health interventions is to
address the major healthproblems identifiedby each county through the participatory healthneeds
assessmentsundertaken duringproject preparation. Two or three priorities will be selectedby each county
from following options basedon the findings o f the assessments.
(1) Maternal and chddhealth care. Strategiesto be taken are:
     Primary matemal care - registrationo f all pregnancies,prenatal visits, delivery attendanceby skilled
     staff andpostnatal visits. Highriskcases will be screenedandidentified through the primary care
     process and referred to hospital for monitored delivery. Communities will be mobilized to support the
     referrals;
     Referral matemal care - to refer the matemal cases with complications to central township hospitals or
     county institutes where emergency obstetric services are available. Township health centers and
     hospitals will be strengthenedto provide obstetric care;
      Child healthcare - village and township healthworkers will be trained to prevent and care for
     premature births, asphyxia and delivery trauma. Children under seven should get systematic visits for
     growth monitoring, regular physical examinations and nutritionadvice;
     Familyplanningandcounseling -selective methods for birthcontrol will bemade available to all
     residents andreproductive healthcounseling will be provided.


(2) Immunizations for all children. Strategiesinclude: (a) improvingthe cold chain systemto ensure the
quality and efficacy of vaccines; (b) strengthening the competence and accountability o f EPI staff by
training; (c) ensuringuniversal coverage o f immunization throughfixed sites andmobile vaccination
measures; (d) improving EPI surveillance andmanagement; and(e) reinforcing immunization through
better information, education and communication.
(3) Children's nutrition and control o f parasitosis. Strategies include health education on nutritionand
personal hygiene among school kids; sample survey for nutritional status monitoring; and school based
deworming. Incommunities where parasitosis is prevalent, special programs will be carried out to control
the infections, including prevention andtreatment.

(4) Healtheducation. Effective IEC strategies will be appliedto provide health education programs for
various target groups for raising awareness o f local health issues, gaining basic healthknowledge,
constructing healthy community environment andnorms, and forming hygienic personal behavior. Priority
topics of health education will be basedon the localneeds. The following topics can be possible selections:


                                                      - 50 -

basic healthhygiene knowledge; HIVIAIDS; breast feeding and child nutrition; matemal andchild care;
immunization of children; andthe prevention o f other common diseases such as parasitosis, iodine
deficiency disorders andhealth care utilization.

3. Improvement of basic health servicecapacitiesat township and village levels. The objective is to
buildor strengthen service capacity ofvillage clinics andtownship healthcentershospitals. The projectwill
support: (a) Training for healthworkers. This includes short and longterm training on basic health
services for health workers at village, township, and county (ifnecessary) levels. Priority will be given to
female workers at village level; (b) Buildingvillage-clinics for remote communities andrehabilitate
township health facilities. Prioritywill be gwen to obstetric and pediatric services at township level; (c)
Provision o fbasic equipment to village and township health facilities for public health interventions and
basic medical care; (d) Adoption o f clinical protocols, essential drug list and mutual referral system; and
(e) Provision o f essential drugs for village clinics.

Project Component 5     -- Community  Capacity Building US$7.00 million
                                                        -
Emphasizingcommunity level capacity buildingis one o fmajor characteristics which differentiate the
PRCDP from previous poverty reductionprojects inChina. There is an obvious and strong demandfor
capacity building from different stakeholders, andthat training needsvary across the different groups of
stakeholders. For example, village leaders ask for training inpublic management, accounting, project
management, dispute resolution, and infrastructure construction skills; women ask for training on applied
production technology, basic nutrition knowledge, and family management.

The objective o fthe component is to promote andmaintainthe project sustainability through strengthening
the grass-root capacity inmanagingcommunity development activities. The designprinciples for the
component are a) activities under the component should adequately reflect the beneficiaries' demand; b)
activities shouldbe broad enough to cover the whole community insteado f narrowly targeting at some
specific focus group; andc) civil works should be kept at a minimumlevel. Based on these principles, the
component include the following four types o f activities:

a) activities to improve basic production and living skills o f the poor farm households, including applied
technology training, vocational training, literacy education, andbasic healthknowledge extension, etc.;

b) activities to strengthen community leaders' basic skills, including skills on local administrative
management, basic financial management, development o f village-level planning, local dispute resolution,
and small-scale infrastructure construction, etc.;

c) activities to address the demands of some specific disadvantageous groups, particularly inethnic
minority areas, For example, women's training; and
d) activities to promote andstrengthen community participation inthe decision-making processo flocal
public development affairs, including general participatory approach training, establishment o f farmer
participatory monitoringgroups, etc..

The total component cost is about US6.1million, accounts for 5% ofthe total project cost.

Project Component 6     -- ProjectManagement and Monitoring US$6.60 million
                                                                 -
Overview. Establishing an efficient and effective project management system is one of the key determining
factors to project success. Itrequires strong support o f all levels o f government, a highly capable project
management offices at all levels anda powerhl and timely monitoringand evaluation system. To this end,



                                                      -51 -

the project management system of the PRCDP is builtupon the successfulmodel o f the World Bank's
Southwest andQinba Mountainous Poverty Reduction Projects. Institutionalbuildingis emphasized at all
stages o f the project to ensure that the project will meet its goals and objectives. For this reason, it is
essential to set up a workable project management organizational structure, strengthen institutional
capacity buildingat eachproject management level and establish an effective project monitoring and
evaluation system.

1. Project management organizational setup. The projectmanagementorganizational setup is designed
taking consideration ofthe institutionalcomplexities involved inthe project. Project management,
implementation and technical support o f local and intemationalexperts systems are built up, inwhich
project management procedures such as project coordination, reporting, procurement anddisbursement o f
counterpart fundingare defined interms o f division o froles andresponsibilities o f project management
institutions at all levels.

The established project management structure is basedon the government administrative system and local
social, economic and political conditions. Project management offices are set up at the provincial,
prefecture, county, township andvillage levels. It is aimed to ensure that stakeholders will be able to
participate at each level o f the project management, which is a prerequisite for project management
transparency and accountability.

Given the fact that it is highlyunlikely to have a central PMO despite all the efforts made, it is crucial to
findways to either strengthenthe current role ofthe LiaisonGroup under the ForeignCapital Project
Management Centre or seek other possible options. Inaddition, it is necessaryto pay more attention to the
divisiono f roles and responsibilities at each level o f the project management structure and ensure their
efficiency, effectiveness and coordinationinproject management. Particular attention should also be given
to the identificationo f ways and means for timely provision o f government counterpart funds, reasonable
use o fproject funds and timely repayment o f project loans.

2. Institutional capacity building. Improvingthe conditions of the infrastructure of the project
management offices at each level is important for such a comprehensive project to function effectively. For
this reason, sufficient office facilities are to be purchased and equipped.

It is also necessaryto improve the skills ofthe staff especially at county andtownship levels inproject
management. Properly designed training programmes onprocedure requirements o f the World Bank/DFID
project, project managementrequirements, working experience exchanges, project inspection, monitoring
andacceptancecheck, computer training andhosting conferences and organizingstudy tours andso forth
will serve this purpose.

Training will also be provided for village technicians anddemonstration households, who will be giventhe
direct opportunities to learn andgrasp technical skills inagricultural production. Then they will be able to
disseminate their knowledge and skills to other villagers and households.

Institutional sustainability is of concemuponthe completion o f the project due to closure o f project offices
andmovement ofstaff especially at the county andtownship levels. Through capacity building,these staff
will have become an asset inpoverty reduction. Duringthe course ofproject design andimplementation,
consideration needs to be given to developingmechanisms for sustainable institutions, where the staff will
be able to continue their contribution to poverty reduction work intheir local areas when the project is
completed.



                                                       - 52 -

3. Project monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring andevaluation (M&E) is o f great importance for
achieving the objectives of the project and ensuringthat the project will be managedmore efficiently and
effectively. The M&E system consistso f two parts, the intemalphysical monitoring andinformation
system andthe independent impact assessment system.

The intemal physical monitoring and information systemto be set up i s basedon previous works,
especially on the similar system establishedby Guangxi Foreign Capital Project Management Centre for
the World Bank Southwest Poverty Reduction Project. Itwill beusedincheckingandmonitoring the
project support made to eachproductive activity, evaluating investment efficiency, measuring the impact o f
investment on poverty reduction and thus will ensure financial accountability.

The independent impact assessmentsystemwill includebotha quantitative programme basedonannual
surveys o f 1800project and non-project households, and a qualitative programme which will be h v e nby
the expressedviews of the primarybeneficiaries.

At present, the independent impact assessmentsystemis yet to beestablisheddue to various institutional
constraints. This system is essentialto successful implementation of the project interms o f whole process
o f stakeholder participation andtransparent and accountable project management processes. Steps needto
be taken to make provision for funds neededinthe buildingup andmaintaining the system, screening for
best national and international consultant teams and engaging with PMOSat all levels.




                                                    - 53 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                                                                                   Local                 Foreign                    Total
                                                                                                US $million           US $million              US $million
Sustainable MountainAgriculture                                                                     29.85                  29.85                     59.70
Basic Rural Infrastructure                                                                          33.50                  14.40                     47.90
Basic Education                                                                                     4.50                     3.60                      8.10
Basic Health                                                                                         3.45                    2.95                      6.40
Community Capacity Building                                                                          0.90                    5.80                      6.70
Project Management and Monitoring                                                                    3.00                    3.30                      6.30
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 75.20                  59.90                  135.10
PhysicalContingencies                                                                                2.30                    1S O                      3.80
PriceContingencies                                                                                   1.75                    1.45                      3.20
                                         Total Project Costs'                                       79.25                  62.85           1      142.10
                                                                Front-endfee                                                 0.50                      0.50
                                  Total Financing Required                                          79.25                  63.35           II      142.60

                                                                                                    Local                Foreign                     Total
                                                                                                 US $million           US $million             US $million
                                                                                                      42.60                      18.10                   60.70
                                                                                                      34.40                     34.30                    68.70
Consulting Services                                                                                                               1.40                     1.40
Program assistance to social services                                                                                             1.60                     1.60
Training and study tour                                                                                                           7.40                     7.40
Miscellaneous                                                                                            2.30                     0.00                     2.30
7-                                                                                         .
                                                         Total Project Costs'                         79.30        I             62.80      I           142.10
                                                                      Front-endfee                                                0.50 1                   0.50
                                                Total Financing Required                              79.30        II            63.30 I                142.60 1

  I
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US6m)and the total project cost. net o f taxes, IS 142.6 (US%ni). Thereforc, the project cost sharing ratio is 70 13% of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                     - 54 -

                                Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
               CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIESDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

Qualitative discussions

Before quantifying benefits o f the proposedproject, we needto develop good qualitative understandingso f
possible benefits. Based on the Social Assessment conducted by the CCCC andreports from participatory
village planningactivities organized by PMOSat different levels, the PRCDP is expected to generate the
follow economic andsocial benefits:

     An increased per capita income and improvedfood security from enhanceduplandagricultural
     productivity;

     A higher living standards due to improved access to markets, safe drinkingwater, transportation,
     electric power, and other basic infrastructure services;

     Strengthened ability to manage risks due to improved access to education, health, capacity building
     activities, and other social services;
     Stabilizationandreversal o f environmental destruction through landimprovement andnaturalresource
     conservation works;
     A greater sense of community cohesion andempowerment through the participatoryproject design,
     implementation and M&Eprocess; and

     Improvedstatus o f some specific social groups, such as women group as well as the people with
     disabilities, through activities aimed to achieving better gender equality andprovidingmore
     development opportunities.'      '




Comparable economic and social benefits are also observed from similar poverty reduction project (e.g.,
Southwest and Qinba) implementedinsimilar areas before. For example, the National Bureau o f Statistics'
(NBS) independent monitoring reports show that villages in Southwest andQinba project achieved
remarkable economic and social benefits, as reflectedby declining o f poverty, increasedper capita income,
reduced grain deficits, more development opportunities for the beneficiaries. SSB's reports also
demonstrate that project villages, inmany aspects, outperformed the non-project villages which generally
enjoyed muchbetter initial conditions than that o fproject villages. All these solid evidence gives us
additional confidence to the anticipated benefits from the PRCDP project.

Some of these benefits are easier to be quantified than others. For example, methodologies are well
developed for quantifyingthe benefits from improved agriculturalproductivity, education services, and
basic infrastructure construction. However, it would be difficult to quantify some social benefits, such as
improved social cohesion, more gender equality, andbenefits from other beneficiaries empowerment
activities.

Methodology and major assumptions

A traditional methodology is usedfor conductingeconomic analysis. For differentactivities, we first
estimate the future stream o f costs and benefits and then derive net benefits to calculate the net present
value (NPV) and an economic rate o f return (ERR). Data for calculating the ERRcomes from provincial
level feasibility studies and a series of Poverty Monitoring Report for Qinba project (State Statistical
Bureau, 1998-2003).


                                                      - 55 -

Project benefits have been quantified for three major components, i.e., a) sustainablemountain agriculture;
b) basic rural infrastructure; andc) basic education. Investmentto these three major components accounts
for about 85% o f total project investment. To get the ERRof the project as a whole, the individual ERRs
are weightedby the investment proportion of corresponding components inthe total project. The benefits
o f other components are difficultto quantify (e.g. basic health, community capacity building,as well as
project management and monitoring) andhenceERRs are not calculated for them.

Several conventional and conservative assumptionsare made. First, per capita income inbothproject as
well non-project areas will increaseat 5% eachyear inthe first ten years, and ten remainunchanged.
Second, the estimated benefits (revenues) are extrapolated over a 35 year period. Third, the capital
discount factor is 0.1. N o other major assumptions are made.

Detailedcalculations, including methodologies, specific assumptions, crop budgets, andactivity models are
provided inthe project files.

Results

The overall economic rate of return ofthe proposed project is estimated to be around 30% (Table 4.1). It
should be noted that, due to the conservative assumptionswe made andreasons explained indetail below,
the estimated ERRis likely to underestimate the real benefits of the project andhence it should be regarded
as the lower bound of the real ERR. However, even from the lower bound perspective, the economic
viability o f the proposed project is welljustified.


  Activity       Project as a whole     Sustainablemountain          Basic rural           Basic
                                             agriculture            infrastructure       Education
    ERR                30%                       35%                    27%                 19%

Sustainablemountain agriculture. This component includes, among other activities, the three major
groups o f activities: livestock raising, cash-cropltree planting, as well as grain crop planting. For the
livestock raising, we calculated ERRs for the activities o f raising goat, pig, and silkworm. For the
cash-cropltree planting, we calculated ERRsfor activities o f planting tea, sugar cane, and longan. For the
grain-crop planting, we calculated ERRs for rice and maize. The ERRSfor individualactivities range from
16% (Longan) to 51% (silkworm), and an overall ERRfor the whole component is about 35%.




                                                      - 56 -

Basic rural infrastructure. Rural infrastructure component is one of componentsmost welcomedby the
beneficiaries as indicatedby Social Assessment report as well as reports from participatory village
planningactivities. The Poverty MonitoringReport (SSB, 2001) shows that the small imgation
sub-component can generate 1.4% increaseofper capita income. Based on this parameter andother three
moderate assumptions, the rate ofretumto the small irrigation sub-component is estimated around 27%.
This ERR can be treated as the lower bound o f the real ERR for the whole rural infrastructure component.
For example, when askedto rankthe sub-componentso f infrastructure component, farmers always give the
first two priorities to the road construction and electrification. Farmers generally rank the small irrigation
as the thirdpriority. Therefore, we can reasonably believe that ERRSfor road and electrification shouldbe
higher than that of small irrigation inorder to matchfarmers' preference order. Interestingly,other
researches(e.g., Rozelle and Huang, 2003) also found the similar conclusion, which strengthens our
confidence over the findings.

Basic education. By usingthe data from the project provinces, Ravallion and Chen (1997) showed that
the per capita income o f those who received elementary education is about 20% lugher thanthose who are
illiterate. Based on this key parameter, the per capita gross income data from all three provinces in2003
(from SSB), the rate of return to elementary education is estimated to be around 19%.

This ERR can also reasonably be argued as the lower boundo fthe real ERRto the basic education
component, given that many other benefits are not included inthis calculation. For example, we didnot
quantify the benefits o fthe adult vocational training program, locallibraries construction, teachers'
training, andclassroom constructions. Researchconducted by the Intemational Food Policy Research
Institute in2001 showed that investmentineducation is the most profitable investmentinterms of its retum
to rural GDP inthe western China. IFPRI estimated that RMB1Yuan investment ineducation would
generate RMB5 Yuan inreturn.

No extra efforts are made to estimate the financial rate o fretum (FRR) separately. After more than
two-decades market-oriented economic reform, the price distortion due to the govemment's intervention
basically beenwipedout; or at least, significantly reduced. Rich and strong evidence show that an
integrated domestic market has already been established andit is increasingly integratedwith the
intemational market. Against this background, there is essentially no additional value to calculate ERR
andFRRseparately to capture the impact of price distortion.

Fiscal impact

The short-run fiscal impact o f the project on counties i s interms o f counterpart funds andO&M costs. For
Sichuan no counterpart funds will be required from county governments, while Yunnanwill require only
minimal funds. However, Guangxi is requiring500,000 RMB per year from each county incounterpart
funds. Giventhe weak fiscal positiono fproject counties, there is a significant risk for Guangxithat these
funds will not beprovided ontime, causing delaysto project implementation. This riskwill beminimised
by close monitoring with rapidinterventionifdelays occur. The risko f insufficient funding of O&M costs
at county, township andvillage levels i s to be minimisedby the participatory approach which should
increase local willingness to contribute to O&M, andby provincialimplementationguidelines requiring
estimation o f O&M costs as part o f subproject design.

Although there is a relatively highERR, the reduction and abolition o f agricultural taxes will mean that
there is less o f an impact from the project on govemment revenues. However, basedon the fact that most
project counties are the poorest ethnic minority counties, and also based on the experience from Southwest


                                                      - 57 -

andQinbaproject, higherlevel (provincial andcentral) governmentswill have some special arrangements
or favoured policy towards these counties interms o f fiscal resourcetransfer. They may therefore provide
support ifcounties have difficulties with repayment.

Additionality. For the project to have an impact inproject areas assumes that project investments financed
by the loanare additional to investments that would have beenmadewithout the project. This requires that
public andprivate financing is not withdrawn or redirected as a result o f the project financing. Interms o f
public financing, each province has poverty alleviation grant funds (PAFs) allocated to key villages, with
most project villages beingkey villages. According to their Rural Poverty Alleviation Plans (2001-2010),
over the course o f the project (2005 to 2010) Sichuan intends to spend250,000 RMBper key village,
Yunnan 300,000 RMBand Guangxi 500,000 RMB. Withdrawal ofthese public funds inkey villages can
be avoidedprovided that government counterpart fundsperproject village are equal to or greaterthan these
amounts. This is the case inYunnanwhere counterpart funds per village are twice as much (630,000
RMB) and inSichuan where counterpart funds are approximately equal (240,000 RMB).Althoughin
Guangxithey are 70% (350,000 RMB),this is not a cause for concem. Since the PAFs are often not spent
inthe keyvillages themselvesbutoninfrastructure that benefits other villages too, while the project
investments will be more targeted at the key villages, 70% is an acceptable amount to preventre-directionor
withdrawal.




                                                    - 58 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
               CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                      Years Ending
                                  July 2005 to June 2010


                         I Year1 I Year2     1  Year3   I Year4  I Year5  IYear6  I Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
  Investment Costs           22.2       36.3        40.6     31.1      9.6     0.0      0.0
 RecurrentCosts               0.5        0.5         0.5      0.5      0.5     0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          22.7       36.8        41.1     31.6     10.1     0.0      0.0
             Front-endfee     0.5        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Financing              23.2       36.8        41.1     31.6     10.1     0.0      0.0

Financing
   IBRDllDA                  15.8       25.4        28.7     22.6      7.5    0.0       0.0
  Government                  7.4       11.4        12.4      9.0      2.6    0.0       0.0
      Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
       Provincial             0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
   Co-financiers              0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Other                         0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      23.2       36.8        41.1     31.6     10.1    0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:




                                             - 59 -

                            Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
           CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

Procurement
      A. General

      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
      "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans andIDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
      "Guidelines: Selection andEmployment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
      2004, andthe provisions stipulated inthe LegalAgreement. The description o f various items under
      different expenditure categories is presentedbelow. For each contract to be financed by the Loan,
      the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the needfor prequalification,
      estimated costs, prior review requirements, andtime frame are agreedbetween the Borrower and
      the Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The first procurement planwill cover initially a 18
      months period and will be updated at least annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project
      implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

      1. ProcurementofWorks: A total ofapproximately US$ 51.3 millionofinvestments wouldbe
      procured following procurement o f works methods. These works would include: (i)     construction
      and repair o f ruralroads and bridges, rural water supply and small scale irrigationfacilities,
      methane-generation pits, rural markets, low andmiddle yield landimprovements, housing and
      community buildingconstructiodrehabilitation, pasture construction, ruralbroadcasting andTV
      facilities andother small works under the Rural Infrastructure Component; (ii)   construction and
      repair o f rural school buildings under Education Component; (iii)  construction and repair o f rural
      clinic buildings underthe Health Component; and(iv) office buildings construction under
      InstitutionalBuildingand Project Management and Monitoring Component. The procurement will
      be done usingthe Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB andModel Bidding
      Documents (MBD) for NCB agreedwith the Bank.

           (i) International CompetitiveBidding (ICB) Although not anticipated, any contract for
           works estimated to cost U S 1 0 million equivalent or more would be procuredunder ICB
          procedures specified inthe Procurement Guidelines.
           (ii) National CompetitiveBidding (NCB) Contracts for works estimated to cost less than
           US$10 million equivalent may be awarded underNCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
           Works contracts with estimated values o f less than US$2 million may be advertised only ina
           provincial newspaper. NCB procurement would be managed byprovincial PMO. The total
           amount o f contracts under this procedure is estimated to be around US$8.5 million equivalent.
           (iii)Small Civil WorksProcurement (Shopping) Contracts for works estimated to cost less
           thanUS$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract wouldbe awarded through shopping procedures as
           specified inPara. 3.5 o f the Procurement Guidelines, for an estimated total amount o f about
           US$36.8 million. These works would be suitable for lump sum and fixed-price contracts
           awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors
           inresponseto awritten invitation. Small civilworks procurement wouldbemanagedby each
           county PMO and line agencies.
           (iv) Force Account (FA). A total amount o f works not to exceedUS$6million equivalent,
           comprising individual assignments costing not more than US$lOO,OOO each, would be carry
           out by force account by the township governments or the corresponding line agencies for each


                                                  - 60 -

    component. These investments would include simple works (e.g., irrigation rehabilitation,
    water supply systems, roads, markets, education and healthinfrastructure) under the Rural
    Infrastructure, Education andHealth components. Giventhat these works are small, located in
    remote areas and scattered in 18 counties, it is assumedthat it is not likely that qualified
    contractors wouldbid for them. With prior agreement from the Bank, these works under force
    account wouldbe done by the line agencies.to best utilize local know-how, their existing
    equipmentand locally available materials andemploy labor intensive technologies. The Bank's
    payments for works under FA will be made on output basis, Le., unitprices andquantities
    agreed mutually with the Bank.


2. Procurementof Goods: A total of US$5.8 millionof investments would be procuredunder
b s project followingprocurement o f goods methods. These would include: office equipment,
teaching equipment, books and teaching materials, furniture for schools, medical equipment and
medicines, vehicles, agncultural inputs, andbuildingmaterials for works at the village level. The
procurement will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB andChineseModel BiddingDocuments
(MBD)for NCB agreedwith the Bank.

    (i) International CompetitiveBidding (ICB) Although not anticipated, any contract for
    goods estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more would be procuredunder ICB
    procedures specified inthe Procurement Guidelines.
    (ii) National CompetitiveBidding (NCB) NCBprocedures wouldbe usedfor procurement
    o f goods costing less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to a total o f about US1.3
    million. Contracts may be advertised only ina provincial newspaper.NCB would be handled
    byprovincialPMO.
    (iii)Shopping. Other goods such as office equipment, teaching materials, school fumiture,
    medical equipmentandmedicines insmaller quantities andavailable onthe shelf, would be
    procuredby each county PMO usingshopping procedures with contracts under US$lOO,OOO
    equivalent per contract, for a total estimated to be around US$4.5 million.


3. Communities andVillageHouseholdsParticipation in Procurement: Inthe interest of
project sustainability and to ensure communities andvillages households' ownership, the
Agricultural Component andthe village works underthe RuralInfrastructure Component would be
managedandimplemented by communities andvillages households themselves by utilization o f
local equipment, materials, labor, andtechnology. These activities mainly include: productive
investments for crops, tree crops andlivestock; individual household-based small scale
ago-processingand micro enterprises; village access roads, small scale irrigationfacilities, low
andmediumyield landimprovement, pasture development, andmethanegenerationpits and other
small works. The estimated total amount o f investments under these methods would be about
US$73.2 million. All these project activities are scatteredinaround 1000 communities comprising
more than 390,000 village households in 18 counties selectedin Sichuan, Guangxi and Yunnan
provinces. The nature o f these works andcommunity drivenactivities would require more flexible
procurement procedures andarrangements. To ensure those activities are effectively implemented,
the following arrangements have been agreed:

    (i) WORKS: Community participationin constructionofsmall works under the Rural
    InfrastructureComponent. Village access roads andpaths (short, simple, low cost), small
    scale irrigation facilities, water supply systems, low andmiddle yield land improvement,


                                              -61 -

terracing, pasture development, methane generation pits and other works which are
geographically scatteredand are labor-intensive will be procuredby community participation
method. The individual value of eachwork will be quite small, averaging around US$4-5
thousand per contract andnot to exceed US$lO,OOO inany individualcontract. The total
estimated value would be around US$lO.O million. They would be carried out by the
communities through community participation force account, direct contracting or comparison
of three quotations obtained from local communities inaccordance with the following
procedures:

a. Selection of Activities: Specific activities as above mentionedto be financed ineach
project community shall be selectedbasedon the priorities proposed by communities andshall
be included inits Village Development Plan. The detailed criteria including economic
utilization o f funds has been described inthe Participation Manual andProcurement Manual.

b. Construction Standards and Payment: Works shallbe carriedout inaccordancewith the
technical standards including inspection and acceptanceprocedures set out by Township Work
Stations andagreedby county PMOs inthe Project Implementation Manual (PIM). Payment
will be madebasedonpre-agreed lump sumcostsper activity, following apayment schedule
agreed between the PMO and the community on the basis o fphysical progress, and where the
last payment will not be made until the activities are completed andaccepted. Physical
verifications conducted and issued by Township Work Stations would also be provided as
supporting documents for disbursement.

(io GOODS: Village HouseholdsParticipation in Sustainable Mountain Agriculture
Component. Project support would be providedto village households to carry out the
activities under this component for an estimated amount o f investments o f about US$63.2
million. The average level of support for eachvillage household is about US$200, anda total
about 390,000 households would be supported under this Project. The following arrangements
have beenmade to ensure that village households properly use this support:

a. Village Development Plans, Village Development Plans would be preparedby each
administrative village basedon individual households' needsand their own development
priorities through a participatory approach as outlined inthe Participation Manual. The Plan
would include the project activities, inputs required, costs, implementation schedule, and
monitoringand acceptance procedures. The Plans would be submittedto county PMOs for
approval. The approved Plans would be basis for implementation. These Plans would be
updated annually or as requiredthrough adequateconsultationand agreementwith the
communities.

b. SelectionofVillage Households, Village households as beneficiary wouldbe selected
based on the criteria set out inthe PIM. Community workshops will be organized to discuss
andinformcommunity representativesandhouseholds o f objective ofthe component and
obligation o f eachparty.

c. Approval of the Project Support Agreement. Township Financial Departments/Work
Stations would review andapprove the proposals submittedby each village andsign a
support agreement with eachVillage Committee or with eachhousehold membero fthe
community to be benefiting from this agreement. The agreementwould specify the amount o f
resourcesrequired, purpose of use, payment schedule and conditions.



                                        - 62 -

    d. Implementation. Village householdswoulddecide to buy agricultural inputs(seeds,
     seedling, fertilizer andpesticide, materials and small tools, and animals), andhire technical
     services as needed, as well as employ outside labor when necessaryto carry out agricultural
     activities, either individually or collectively as a group. Inthe case o f some activities which
    require the services from PMO, the PMO will carry out the procurement andprovide
     assistance inkind. Agricultural inputs would be purchased on local markets when they are
     available and prices are competitive or incase that inputs are not available on localmarkets,
    village householdswith help o f local communities would purchase from other markets.The
     detailedprocedureshave beendescribed inthe Procurement Manual.

     e.   Payment andAuditing. Payment would be made againstthe support agreement signed
    with eachvillage committee or individual householdineither one or two tranches definedby
    township work stations inthe Manual depending on nature o fpurchase. Inany case, payment
    will be only done on satisfactory documentary evidence that community representativesor
    households have attendedthe workshop and has signed the financial support agreement. A
     special auditingwould be arrangedby county PMOs together with financial departments,
     township workstations to verify the use of these funds on a six-month basis by extemal
     consultants. The six monthaudits by extemal consultants would include checkingwhether
     information from the computerized data base corresponds with the information on loans posted
     invillages andthat the householdsagreewiththis.The six monthaudit report wouldbe
    provided to the Bank supervision missionwithin one monthafter its au&t.

     f. MonitoringandReporting. Inadditionto above auditingarrangement, township work
     stations would maintain computerized database showing individual households' files including
     disbursements and reimbursements andprint them out andsendto each village for transparent
     monitoring. The progress report would be submittedto the Bank on quarterly basis.


4. Selectionof Consultants. A total o f about US$ 1.4 million o f consultants services would be
requiredunderthis project. The consultingserviceswould include technical extension and
assistance for crop planting, fruit tree planting, household practical farming skills, livestock
breeding, teacher and medical staff training, community capacity building,andproject
management, monitoring and evaluation. Most services would be providedby individual
consultants andsome would be provided by consulting firms. The consulting contracts expected to
cost more than US$200,000 equivalent per contract will use the Quality and Cost Based Selection
(QCBS) or Quality Based Selection (QBS). Most consulting services are estimated under
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract under this project. The Selection Based on Consultants
Qualifications (CQ) would be usedfor these contracts. Chinese universities, design andresearch
institutes as source o f consultants may be included inthe shortlist. Insuch cases, QBS or CQ
would be used instead o f QCBS. Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely ofnational consultants in
accordancewith the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Inspecial cases, for
assignments that meet specific criteria as definedinthe Guidelines, single-source selection may be
usedwith prior no objection from the Bank.

5. Trainingworkshops and Study Tours. A total o fUS$ 7.4 million for training workshops and
study tours would be required. Detailedprograms will be developedbythe PMOs duringproject
implementation and included inproject annual work plan for Bank's review. Actual expenditures
incurred inaccordancewith the approved detailedprograms will be used as the basis for
reimbursement.


                                                - 63 -

6. ProgramSupportfor Social Services. A total of about US$ 1.6 million would berequiredto
provide financial support for poor children for school andbasic health services for poor people in
the project areas.

7. IncrementalOperatingCosts. A total amount of incremental operating costs estimated
around US2.3 million will be procured by the project following usual commercialpractices with
due observanceto the principle ofefficiency. This will include: operation andmaintenance of
vehxles andequipment (including insurance), offices` energy and communications, office supplies
andutilities, project staffs operational travel andper diem, andhiringspace andservicesrelated to
project training, coordinationanddissemination events.


B. Assessmentof the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by Project Management Offices (PMOs) established at
provincial, county, andtownships levels and communities and village households. Eachprovince is
staffed by 4 procurement officers inprovincial PMO and two procurement staff appointed to be
responsible for procurement ineach county PMO.

An assessmentof the capacity ofthe ImplementingAgency to implementprocurement actions for
the project has been carriedout by the World Bank BeijingOffice, inMarch andJune 2004. The
assessmentreviewedits organization structure and functions, past experience, staff skills, quality
and adequacy o f supporting and control systems, legal andregulatory framework. The overall
project risk for procurement is average.

The agreedaction planto address the mainweakness identifiedinclude (i)      sufficient procurement
trainings; (ii)detailed andtimely guidance and supervision by both the PPMOs and the Bank's
supervision andreviews; (iii)  soundprocurement planning; (iv) clear distribution of
responsibilities; (v) a complete support andcontrol system; and (vi) a practical anduser-friendly
Procurement Manual.

C. ProcurementManual

The Procurement Manual not only has provided detailed guidance onorganization structure,
staffing androles and responsibilities o f PMOs at each level, but also defined the procurement
procedures and arrangements for each component under the project. Sample contracts for small
works andgoods procurement have been developed andincluded inthe Manual for reference
duringthe implementation. The detailed procedures for community and village households
participationinthe project have been also worked out.

D. ProcurementPlan

The Borrower has developed a procurement planfor project implementation, which provides the
basis for the procurement methods. This planhas been agreedbetween the Borrower andthe
Project Team before negotiation and i s available at Sichuan PMO, Yunnan PMO andGuangxi
PMO. Itwill also be available inthe Project's database andinthe Bank's external website. The
Procurement Planwill be updated inagreement with the Project Team annually or as requiredto
reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.


                                             - 64 -

E. World Bank Prior Review

All contracts inexcess ofUS$300,000 for goods andUS$1million for works andall contracts for
consultant services inexcess o f US$lOO,OOO for firms and US$50,000 for individuals and all
contracts awardedundersingle source selection would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Force Account contracts will be subject to Prior Review by the Bank, as well as all single-source
selections. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions, post
reviewsamplingratio would be one out offive contracts.

F. FrequencyofProcurement Supervision

Inaddition to thepriorreviewsupervision to becarried out fromWork Bank Office Beijing,the
capacity assessment o fthe ImplementingAgency has recommended at least two supervision
missions per year to visit the project provinces to carry out post review o f procurement actions.




                                             - 65 -

Procurement methods (TableA)


                           Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)




  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
  contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
  costs relatedto (i) managingthe project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                        - 66 -

                       Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)




                            (0.00)   (0.80)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.15)     (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.95)
B. Individuals              0.00      0.30       0.00     0.00       0.15       0.00    0.00        0.45
                            (0.00)   (0.30)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.15)     (0.00)   (0.00)     (0.45)
                    Total I 0.00      1.10       0.00     0.00       0.30       0.00     0.00       1.40
                            (0.00) I (1.10)   I(0.00)   I (0.00)   1(0.30)  I  (0.00) I (0.00) I   (1.40)
I\Including contingencies

          Note:QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                 QBS = Quality-based Selection
                 SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                 LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                 CQ = Selection Based on Consultants'Qualifications
                 Other = 9Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                 Commercial Practices, etc.
                 N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                 Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                   - 67 -

Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: 'hresholdsfor Procuremi t Methods.and Prior Revic
                                                                                                            bject to
                                                                                                            iew
                                                                                                  (US$ millions)
                                   Above $10million                     ICB                   Yes; Not anticipated

                                 Less than $10 million;                NCB                      Yes, ($5 million)
                                    above $1million
                               ,ess than $1 million, above             NCB                             No
                                        $100,000

                                   Less than $100.000              ForceAccount                  Yes ($6 million)

                                   Less than $100,000           Shopping/Community                     No
                                                                    Participation
 2. Goods                           Above $500,000                      ICB                    Yes, not anticipated

                               Less than $500,000, above
                                       $300,0000                        NCB                     Yes ($0.8 million)
                                 Below $300,000, above
                                        $100,000                        NCB                No; only the first contract

                                    Below $100,000              Shopping/Community                     N o
                                                                     ParticiDation
 3. Services                             Firms:
                                     above $100,000                QCBS/QBSISS                  Yes ($0.5 million)

                                    Below $100,000.                   QBSICQ                           No
                                                                         sss                           Yes
                                       Individual:
                                     above $50,000                      ICISS                   Yes ($0.3 million)

                                     Below $50,000                        T n                          No
 4. Miscellaneous                          All                          Other                          No
                                                                  (SOE mechanism)
~




                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$12.5 million (about 9% of total value of
                                                                           procurement)
                           Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment:             Average
       Frequencyof procurement supervision missionsproposed:               One every 6 months for initial two years and
                                                                           once ayear for the remaining years
                                                                           (includes special procurementsupervisionfor
                                                                           post-review/audits)


 "Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
  Procurement" and contactthe Regional ProcurementAdviser for guidance.



                                                      - 68 -

             Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
               CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

Financial Management

1. Summary ofthe Financial ManagementAssessment
Summary

1.       The FMS has conducted an assessment o f the adequacyo f the project financial management
system o f the Poor Rural Communities Development Project. The assessment, basedon guidelines issued
by the Financial Management SectorBoarddated October 15,2003, has concluded that the project meets
minimumBank financial managementrequirements, as stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. Inthe FMS's opinion,
the project will have inplace an adequate project financial management systemthat can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurateandtimely information on the status o f the project inthe reporting format
agreed with the project andas requiredby the Bank.

2.       Fundingsources for theproject include the World Bank loan, counterpart funds and a DFIDgrant.
The Bank loanproceedswill flow from the Bank into the project special accounts to be set up at and
managedby the Provincial Finance Bureaus of eachprovince (Yunnan, Sichuan and Guangxi), and thento
municipal finance bureaus (MFB) and county finance bureaus (CFB). For the non-household components
the funds will be usedto make payments to related keybureaus/executing agencies andcontractors or
suppliers, while for the householdcomponent the funds will be delivered to the households through
townships andvillages committees. Counterpart funds will come from the central and the
provincial/municipal/county governments. Interms of disbursementtechnique, the project will be
disbursingbasedonthe traditional disbursement techmquesand will not be usingPMR-based
disbursements, inaccordancewith the agreementbetweenthe Bank andMOF.

3.       No outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the implementingagencies involvedinthe
proposed project. The FMS however will continue to be attentive to financial management matters and
audit covenants duringproject supervisions.

Country Issues

4.       To date, no CFAA has beenperformed for China, though dialogue with the Government of Chma
inrespectofthe CFAA exercisehasbeeninitiatedandunderway. The plannedapproach to CFAA is to
buildon the Asian Development Bank's study ofFinancial Management and Governance Issues inChina in
2000, and analyze areas that have changed rapidly inthe past few years or that deserve further scrutiny and
over time will cover all major areas usually assessed as part o f a full CFAA exercise. Currently, for
reference purpose, the Bank relies on study work conducted by the Asian Development Bank.

5.       However, basedon observations o f developments inthe areas o f public expenditures, accounting
and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we note that substantial
achievement inthe aforementioned areas has beenmade andfurther improvement is expected inthe next
few years. As economic reformprogram further unfolds, the Government o f China has come to realize the
importance o f establishing andmaintaining an efficient andeffective market mechanism to ensure
transparency and accountability, andminimize potential fraud or corruption.

6.       Dueto rather uniquearrangement by the Government ofChina, funding (inparticular the Bank
loan) o f Bankprojects is controlled and monitored by MOF and its extension &e. finance bureaus at
provincial/regional, municipal/municipal and county level). However, project activities are usually carried
out by implementingagencies o f a specific industry or sector. The above arrangement then usually requires


                                                     - 69 -

 closer coordination on the project, as the multi-level management o f the hndingand implementation
 mechanism sometimes works to the detriment o f smooth project implementation. As such, this assessment
 focuses o n respective provincial finance bureaus o f participating provinces, which will handle Special
 Account activities for the project, and Project Management Office, which will be responsible for managing
 and implementing various components o f the project.

 Risk Analysis

 7.       The following risks with corresponding mitigating measures have been identified during assessment
 processes:

                              RiskRating      Mitigating Measures
                                Moderate     Many implementing agenciesinvolved inthe project have
                                             no prior Bank experience. Close monitoring by the task
                                             team i s extremely important, particularly at the initial stage.

                               Moderate       Close monitoring by task team is neededto ensure all the
                                             Iimplementingentities are familiar with Bank procedures
                                              and requirements.
                               Moderate      IThe task team will ensurethat mechanism will be inplace
                                              to ascertainBank and counterpart funds will be released
                                              to the ultimate beneficiaries on a timely
                                              basis.
 c. Staffing                    Moderate     Adequate and qualified project staff inposition prior to
                                             effectiveness; periodic check by task team on project staffing

I                                            plan or issues
 d. Accounting policies and       Low        Accountingpolicies andprocedures are already in place

                                Moderate     No intemal audit arrangement for the project. However, the
                                             provincial finance bureau and provincial PMO will
                                             periodically supervise project implementation.
                                             The external auditors, the ChinaNational Audit Office and
                                             its local offices have extensive audit experience with Bank
                                             projects.
                                             Format of financial statements and frequency o f submission
 monitoring                       Low        have beenclearly defined by the Bank and MOF.

 h. Information system          Moderate     More intensive verification by the task team at the early
                                             implementation stage to ensure correct setup, followed up by
                                             regular supervision missions.




  Strengthsand Weaknesses

  8.      Strengths -The provincialPMOSo f the three project provinces (Yunnan, Sichuan andGuangxi)
  have extensive experience inthe implementationo f Bank's project. They have previously implemented the
  China Southwest Poverty Reductionproject andQinba Mountains Poverty Reduction project.

  9.      Project special accounts will be managed by the provincial Finance Bureaus. These provincial
  Finance Bureaus already have experience inmanaging Bank's projects, andthey have been found adequate


                                                       - 70 -

andcompetent inprocessingwithdrawal applications and overseeingfund flows, includingBank loanand
counterpart funds.

10.      Weaknesses-All project financial staff at the county level do not have previous Bankproject
experiences, although they do have some according experiences. Therefore, a well-defined and focused
training should be provided by the provincial PMOs prior to effectiveness to these staff to ascertain that
they have a good understanding of Bank operations and requirements before stepping on to the positions.
The task team will provide relevant training as and when needed.

ImplementingEntity

11.      At the provinciallevel, ProjectLeading Groups (PLG) have been set upto (a) mobilize
institutional, technical andfinancial resources and support for the preparation and implementationo f the
project; and (b) provide critical coordination and monitoring function. Inaddition, Project Management
Offices (PMOs) have been establishedto ensure effective andtimely implementationof the project.

12.      At the municipal and county level, PMOs have beenset up. The county PMOs willplay akey role
inthe day-to-day implementationoftheproject.

13.      As an important measureto ensure the project sustainability and localcapacity building,the
project will establish the Township Project Workmg Station (TPWS) and Village Project Execution Group
(VPEG) at the township andvillage level respectively. The TPWS andVPEG will be responsible for the
day-to-day executiono f the project intheir corresponding area.

Funds Flow

14.      Bankfunds    -   The Bankloanwill flow from the Bankto the special accountsto be set up at and
maintainedby respective provincial finance bureau (PFB) for each one o f the participatingprovince, and
thento municipalfinance bureaus(MFB) and county finance bureaus (CFB). For the public goods
components, the funds will be delivered either to the relatedkey bureaus and then to contractors or
suppliers, or to townships andvillages for community procurement. Inboth cases funds may be passedto
households to pay for their labor. For the agriculture components, the funds will be delivered to households
through Townships Project Working Station and Village Project Execution Groups to the communities. The
funds flow is slightly different for eachone o fthe three provinces, as detailed inthe following paragraphs:




                                                     -71 -

Sichuan province:




                                                                                 Households




Guangxiprovince:




                                                                       -
Yunnan province:                                          -
                                                                             I               I
                   Special                                    Key              Contractors/
                   account         MFB         CFB           bureaus             mB,keR




15.     Counterpartfunds         Counterpart funds will be contributedby the central, provincial,
municipal, and county governments, representing about 30% o f total project cost. However, most o f the
counterpart contribution will be provided by the central and provincial governments, for the works and
goods, andincremental operating costs. Giventhe level o f counterpart financing, andthe fact that central
government intendsto bear the majority of this funding, the availability of counterpart fimdingshouldnot
be considered a significant risk.




                                                   - 72 -

16.      Adequate project accounting staffwith relevanteducational background and experience is one o f
the`factors criticalto the successfulimplementation ofproject financial management. Basedon
discussions, observation andreview o f educational background and work experience o f the staff identified
for financial andaccountingpositions inimplementingentities, the task team note that `most staff are
qualified andappropriate to the work they are expected to assume. However, several financial staff at the
county level do not have the requiredaccountantcertificate but performed some accounting duties already.
The relatedprovincial PMOs should assess their capacity to fulfilltheir responsibilities, otherwise they
shouldbe replaced by qualifiedindividuals.

17.      Inorder to facilitate financial managementwork, aProject Financial Management Manual
(Financial Manual) was prepared. The final draft o f this Manual has been completed based on the
feedback from the Bank and provinces and it has been adoptedby all provinces. The three provinces will
have to prepare their detailed procedures basedon this Manual and inline with their specific
circumstances, which will need to be disseminatedto all the financial staff inthe province.

18.      Though some financial staff at provincial levelpossesses experience with Bankprojects, most o f
the financial or accounting staff to be appointed at the county level may lack direct experience inBank
projects. To ensure that staff recruitedfor the project will have good understanding o f Bank's policy and
requirements, it has been agreedwith the PMO that a well-designed and focused training program will be
providedby the provincialPMOs to all new financial staff coricemed, as a condition for loan disbursement
from the loan category corresponding to eachprovince. The training program will include but not limited
to the following:

0    Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures;
0    Project financial management manual;
0    Project financial statements;
0    Project audit arrangement

Accounting Policies and Procedures

19.      The administration, accounting andreporting o f the project will be set up inaccordancewith
Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank FinancedProjects" issued inJanuary 2000 by
MOF. The circular provides in-depthinstructions o f accounting treatment o f project activities and covers
the following:

0    Chart o f account;
0    Detailed accounting instructions for eachproject account;
0    Standard set o f project financial statements;
0    Instructions on the preparation o fproject financial statements

The standardset ofproject financial statementsmentionedabove hasbeen agreedto betweenthe Bankand
     MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised
after July 1, 1998 and includes the following:

0    Balance sheet;
0    Statement of source and use o f fund;


                                                      - 73 -

0    Statement o f implementation of loan agreement;
0    Statement o f special account

 20.     Each o f the implementingentities will be managing, monitoring and maintainingrespective project
 accounting records. Since the county PMO has beenidentifiedto be the lowest level accounting unit,
 original supporting documents for project activities will be retained inthe county PMO. Inaddition, each
 county PMO will prepare financial statements, which will then be submitted to and consolidated by the
 municipal andprovincial PMOs. The provincial PMOs will prepare a consolidatedproject financial
 statements for submission to the Bank for review andcomment on a regularbasis.

 2. Audit Arrangements

 Internal Audit

 21.     There is no formal independent InternalAudit department for the project. However, this will not
 impact the project's financial managementas PMO management and monitoring and yearly external audits
 will serve as the mechanism to ensure that financial management controls are functioning appropriately.

 External Audit and Audit Reports

 22.     The Bank requires that project financial statementsbe audited inaccordancewith standards
 acceptable to the Bank. Inline with Bank financed projects inChina, the project will be audited in
 accordance with the Government AuditingStandards o f the People'sRepublic o f China (the 1997 edition).
 The Foreign FundsApplication Audit Department o f the China National Audit Office (CNAO) and
 provincialaudit bureaus ineachparticipating provinces have been identified as auditors for the project.

 23.      Three audit reports on annual project financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6 months
 of the endo f each calendar year. Details are included inthe table below.



           Component                        Submittedby                           Duedate
 Yunnan                           YunnanPMO                            June 30

ISichuan                           Sichuan PMO
 Guangxi                          IGuangxiPMO                        IJune 30
                                                                       June30

 Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements

 24.      Eachproject province (Yunnan, Sichuan and Guangxi) will prepare its own consolidatedproject
 financial statements. The format andcontent o f the following project financial statements representthe
 standardproject reportingpackageagreedto between the Bank andMOF, andhave beendiscussedand
 agreedwith all parties concerned. The project consolidated financial statements will be submittedas part
 of the Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank for review andcomment on a semi-annual basis (prior to
 August 15 andMarch 15 of the subsequent year) and include the following four statements:


 0   Balance Sheet;
 0    Summary of Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Project Component;
 0    Statemento f Implementationo f Loan Agreement; and
 0    Statement of Special Account



                                                     - 74 -

Information Systems

25.       The accounting software named "Yongyou" hasbeenusedbyYunnan and Guangxi provinces in
their previously implemented Southwest Poverty Reductionproject. Given that this is a reputable and
reliable accounting software, they will continue to use this software inthe proposednew project. For
Sichuan province, they usedthe accounting software that was financed by the Bank intheir Qinba
MountainPoverty Reduction project and they intendto use it again inthe new project. Nevertheless,
verification by the task team at the early implementation stage and duringsupervision missions will be
carried out to ensure correct setup and proper usage.

Impact of ProcurementArrangements

26.      The impact o fprocurement arrangementso f the project on financial management is considered to
be minimal. Threshold set for procurement post-review will be consistent with that set for SOE
disbursementpurposes. See discussion ofprocurement arrangementsincludedinthe procurement
assessmentreport.

3. DisbursementArrangements

27.     The projectwill be disbursingusingthe traditional disbursementtechniques andwill not be using
PMR-baseddisbursements, inaccordancewith the agreementbetween the Bank and MOF.

28.      To facilitate disbursement,three Special Accounts will be established at each o f the participating
provinces. The provincial finance bureaus (PFB) at the three participatingprovinces will be responsible
for the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation o f the respective Special Account
activities.
29.      Disbursement methods, such as replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment andspecial
commitment, will be available to the project. The SOE limits will be set inline with procurement
post-review threshold, as follows:

0    Works under contracts each costing less than US$ 1million equivalent;
0    Goods under contracts each costing less than US$300,000 equivalent;
0    Consulting services under contracts awarded to consulting firms each costing less than US$lOO,OOO
     equivalent;
0    Consulting services under contracts awarded to individualconsultants each costing less than
     US$50,000 equivalent;
0    TrainingProgram Assistance/Incremental Operating Costs.

30.      The Special Accounts would be established inUS dollars, incommercial banksacceptableto the
Bank andonterms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Accounts would beusedfor all
eligible foreign andlocal expenditures. Applications for replenishment o fthe Special Accounts wouldbe
submittedmonthly or whenever the account hasbeendrawn downby about 50 percent ofthe initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. The authorized allocation o f SA will be equivalent to about 4 months o f eligible
expenses reimbursable via SA, as follows:

a) Yulznan:The allocationo f SA is proposed to not exceed US$2.2 million.




                                                    - 75 -

b) Sichuan:The allocation of SA is proposedto not exceedUS$2.2 million.

c) Guangxi: The allocation o f SA is proposedto not exceedUS$1.9 million.

Action Plan

31.      The following is the only financial management time-bound actionthat is pendingandthat should
be adequately addressedby the project, even though it has no major impact on Board presentation:

                                    I                            I
              Action                       Responsibility                    TargetDate

1.Each Province shouldprovide        Provincial PMOS              Prior to disbursements for each
financial management training to                                  Province (specific Condition o f
relevant new financial and                                        Disbursementfor eachLoan
accounting project staff inthe                                    Category).
Project County Offices.



Financial Covenants

32.      There is no specific financial covenants for the project, other thanthe standard ones (e.g.
maintainingproject accounts inaccordancewith sound accounting practices, audit requirement and SOE),
as described inthe legal document.

Supervision Plan

33.      A detailed supervision planfor this project will be included as part ofthe China Audit Strategy
document which is currently inprocess. This document will take into consideration o f the size of project
and the risk identified.




                                                     - 76 -

  Allocation of loan proceeds(TableC)

                                 Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

           Expenditure Category            I Amount in US$million1     Financing Percentage
  TOTAL LOAN ALLOCATION
  Civil Works                                       34.60                      60%
  Goods                                             48.60                      75%
  Promam assistance to social services               1.50                     100%
  Training and study tour                           7.00                      100%
  Consulting Services                                1.30                     100%
  Incremental Operating Costs                        1S O                      70%
  Unallocated                                       5.00

  Total Project Costs with Bank                     99.50
  Financing
                             Front-end fee           0.50

  Total                                            100.00




          Expenditure Category            1  Amount in US $ Million I  Financing Percentage
 Civil Works                                           9.57                     60%
  Goods                                               16.53                     75%
 ProgramAssistance to social services                  0.20                    100%
 Training:and Study Tour                               1.46                    100%
I Consultinp:Services                     I            0.30          I         100%            I
  IncrementalOperating cost                            0.30                     70%
  Unallocated                                          1.50

7- I                                                                 I                         I
  Total project cost with Bank financing              29.86
                            Front-end Fee              0.14
  Total                                               30.00




                                                 - 77 -

                                 Table C -2 Allocation of Loan Proceeds Sichuan
                                                                       -

         Expenditure Category            I Amount in US $ Million  I  Financing Percentage
                                                                                              ~
  Civil Works                                        10.00                    60%
  Goods                                              18.50                    75%
  ProgramAssistance to social services               0.90                     100%
  Training and Study Tour                            2.37                     100%
  Consulting Services                                0.70                     100%
  Incremental Operating cost                         0.60                     70%
  Unallocated                                         1.75



  Total project cost with Bank financing             34.82
                            Front-end Fee            0.18
  Total                                              35.00
                                                                                 ~




                                 Table C - 3 Allocation of Loan Proceeds - Yunnan




I1IncrementalODerating.cost                        0.62                       70%
  Unallocated                          II           1.75         II                              II


  Total project cost with Bank                     34.82
  financing
                          Front-end Fee            0.18
  Total                                            35.00




                                                - 78 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
             CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT




IFirstBank mission (identification)            I        07110/2001            I          10/22/2001        I
 Appraisal mission departure                                                                          ~
                                                        01/21/2002                       1o/1812004
 Negotiations                                           04/08/2002                       04/25/2005
IPlanned Date of Effectiveness                 I        0611112002            I          06/14/2005        I

Prepared by:
Guangxi, Yunnan and Sichuan FCPMCs (Foreign Capital Project Management Centers under the Leading
Group for Poverty Reduction)


Preparation assistance:
PHRD TF02624

Bank staff who worked on the Droiect included:
I         Name                                         Speciality
                                        Task Team Leader, Senior Economist
                                        Co-Task Team Leader, Economist
                                        Operations Adviser
                                        Senior Procurement Specialist
                                        Procurement Analyst
                                        Financial Management Specialist
                                        ChiefCounsel
                                        Senior Counsel
                                        Senior Social Sector Specialist
 NavinRai                               Senior Social Development Specialist
 Jose Molina                            Senior Financial Officer
'ZhengxuanZhu                           Senior Agricultural Specialist
 PeishenWang                            Environmental Specialist
 Cyprian Fisiy                          Peer Reviewer
 Yutaka Takamine                        Peer Reviewer
 HuangPing                              Peer Reviewer
 Matrice Mangum                         ProgramAssistant
 Wenyan Dong                            ProgramAssistant
 Serena Brooks                          Program Assistant


 DFIDStaffwho worked onthe projectinclude:Holger Grundel (Team Leader, Pro-Poor Growthand
 Policy Adviser), Chris Athayde (Deputy Head, DFIDChma), Jillian Popkins (Social Development
 Advisor), StephenKidd (Social DevelopmentAdvisor), Alistair Wray (Senior Infrastructure Advisor),


                                                 - 79 -

Catherine Martin(Enterprise Development Advisor), Strahan Spencer (Economist), Aimin Hao (Project
Officer for PRCDP), Yongjun Zhao (Institional Advisor), Sue Milner(Education Advisor), John
Warburton (Senior Environmental Advisor), Jiangrong Qiao (Health Advisor), Nicola Woods (ICD
Advisor)

Other specialistswho worked on the project include: Claude Saint-Pierre (Amculture), EnjiangCheng
(Financial Management), Wenbin Hu(Education), Yunguo Liu(Health), DunchunWang (Rural
Infrastructure), Wu Ning(Procurement and Financial Management), Wang Yingjie (ICD), Sevilla
Leowinata (Gender), ZhibinLin(Gender), Janet Tay (M&E),NinghuiLi (M&E), Jeffrey Himel
(Environment), Dezhong Shen (Environment), DamingZhou (Social Assessment and Ethnic Minority
People), Weijian Zhang (Resettlement), Johanna Pennarz (Participation), Julian Barr (Participation), Dee
Jupp (Participation), FrankLi (HI, Disabilities), Koen Sevenants (HI, Disabilities), KymDavis
(Facilitator), Yuanming Liu(Interpreter), Jialing Luo (Interpreter), Wei Huang (Interpreter), Sandy Peng
(Interpreter), Feier Chen (Interpreter), LinJinpan (Interpreter), Wanxin Li(Interpreter)




                                                    - 80 -

                              Annex 8:. Documents inthe Project File*
             CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENTPROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was updated following the October 2004 Appraisal Mission.
The PIM i s a living document which will be updated on a regular basis during project implementation. The
current version (March, 2005) is available on CD, and includes:

1. Project Component ManualdGuidelines
2. County Maps (18 images)
3. Social Assessment Report
4. Ethnic Minority Development Framework
5, Environmental Assessmenthvironmental Management Plan
   ,
6. ParticipationManual
7. Resettlement Action Plan
8. Yuexi County Disabilities Pilot Component Outline
9. Financial Management Manual
10. Procurement Manual


8. BankStaffAssessments
Identification, Preparation, Preappraisal, an1 Appraisa Aide Memoires.

C. Other
All importantproject documentation is available inthe PIM.

*Including electronic files




                                                   -81 -

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                       CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIESDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                           23-NOV-2004
                                                                                                                   Differencebetweenexpected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                                 OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO57933     2005 CN-TAI BASIN URBANENVMT                       61.30      0.00                 0.00     0 00   61.00        185       0.00
PO75730     2005 CN-HUNAN URBAN DEV                           172.00      0.00                 0.00     0 00   17200       0 00       0.00
PO73002     2004 CN-Basic Education in WesternAreas           100.00      0.00                 0.00     0 00   96 04       -3 96      0.00
PO84003     2004 CN-GEF GUANGDONGPRD URB ENV                    0.00      0.00                 10.00    0 00   10 00       0 00       0 00
PO65035     2004 CN-Gansu & Xinjiang Pastoral Development      66.27      0.00                 0.00     0 00   61 37        7 50      0 00
PO69652     2004 CN-Wuhan UrbanTransport                      200.00      0.00                 0.00     100    19800      125 12      0.00
PO66955     2004 CN-ZHEJIANG URBAN ENVMT                      133.00      0.00                 0.00     0 00   13167       0 92       0.00
PO65463     2004 CN Jiangxi integratedAgric. Modem.
                    -                                         100.00      0.00                 0.00     0 00   99 00       6 46       0.00
PO75035     2004 CN GEF-Hai Basin Integr.Wat. Env Man.
                    -                                           0.00      0.00                 17.00    0 00    16 55       0 96      0.00
PO77137     2004 CN-4th Inland Waterways                       91.00      0.00                 0.00     0 46   90 55        2 33      0.00
PO77615     2004 CN-GEF-Gansu & Xinjiang PastoralDevelop        0.00      0.00                 10.50    0 00    10 50       190       0.00
PO61749     2004 CN-Hubei Shiman Highway                      200.00      0.00                  0.00    100    19900        0 00      0.00
PO75726     2004 CN-GUANGDONGIPRDUR ENVMT                     128.00      0.00                  0 00    0 00   12800        0 00      0.00
PO75602     2004 CN-2nd National Railways(Zhe-GanLine)        200.00      0.00                  0.00    0 00   200 00       0 00      0.00
PO67337     2003 CN-2nd GEF Energy Conservation                 0 00      0.00                 26.00    0 00    1450       20 97      0.00
PO40599     2003 CN-TiANJiN URB DEV II                        15000       0.00                  0.00    0 00   14382        8 67      0 00
PO68058     2003 CN-Yixing Pumped Storage Project             14500       0.00                  0.00    0 00   13236       -0 44      0.00
PO76714     2003 CN-2nd Anhul Hwy                             250.00      0.00                  0.00    0 00   238 50      29 63      0.00
PO70191     2003 CN-SHANGHAI URBENVMTAPLl                     200 00      0.00                  0.00    0 00   18492       15 25      0.00
PO70441     2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Hwy                250.00      0.00                  0.00    0 00   11633      -23 67      0 00
P058847     2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                  150.00      0.00                  0.00    0 00    92 81      1947       0.00
PO64729     2002 CN-SUSTAINABLEFORESTRYDEV. PROJECT            93 90      0.00                  0.00    0 00    71 77      1594       0.00
PO60029     2002 CN-Sustain. Forestv Dev(Natura1Forest)         0 00      0.00                 16.00    0 00    1208        6 20      0.00
PO58646     2002 CN-Natl Railway Project                      160.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   29 76      1143       0 00
PO68049     2002 CN-Hubei HydropowerDev in PoorAreas          105.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   79 75      25 42      0.00
P070459     2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project                100.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   72 71       6 38      0.00
PO71147     2002 CN-TuberculosisControl Project               104.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   71 97     -32 03      0.00
PO56199     2001 CN-3rd Inland Waterways                      100.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   68 69      1086       0.00
PO56516     2001 CN -WATER CONSERVATION                        74.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   29 04       9 34      0.00
PO58845     2001 Jiangxi I/ Hwy                               200 00      0.00                  0 00    54 77   52 40      15 50      0.00
PO47345     2001 CN-HUAIRIVER POLLUTIONCONTROL                105.50      0.00                  0.00     0 00   74 60     -30 90      0.00
PO51854     2001 CN-LIAORIVERBASIN                            100.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   52 64      26 11      0.00
PO56596     2001 CN-ShljiazhuangUrban Transport               100.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   61 58      60 91      0.00
PO45915     2001 CN-Urumqi UrbanTransport                      100.00     0 00                  0.00     0 00   46 16      46 16      0.00
PO58643     2000 CN-GuangxiHighway                            200.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   71 94      37 94      0.00
PO64730     2000 CN Yangtze DikeStrengthening Project
                     .                                        210.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   99 91      99 91      0.00
PO42109     2000 CN-BEIJINGENVIRONMENTII                      349.00      0.00                 25.00     0 00  272 26     201 29      0.00
PO64924     2000 CN-GEF-BEIJiNGENVMT I1                         0.00      0.00                 25.00     0 00   23 11      21 51      8.15
PO56844     2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                            150.00     0 00                  0.00     0 00   38 31      22 64      0.00
PO45910     2000 CN-HEBEIURBANENVIRONMENT                      150.00     0.00                  0.00     0 00  10753       54 53      0.00
PO56424     2000 CN-TONGBAiPUMPEDSTOW                         320.00      0.00                  0.00   10000   10855      10442       0.00
PO45264     2000 CN-SMALLHLDRCATTLE DEV                        93.50      0.00                  0.00     0 00    5 08       165       0.00
PO49436     2000 CN-CHONGQINGURBANENVMT                       200 00      0.00                  0.00     3 70  14043       83 13      0.00
PO41268     1999 CN-Nat Hwy4/Hubei-Hunan                      350.00      0.00                  0.00     0 00   37 87      31 21      0.00
PO57352     I999 CN-RURALWATER iV                               16.00     30.00                 0.00     0 00   17 69      1568       13.66
PO36121     1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLEENERGY DEVELOPMENT             0.00      0.00                 35.00     0 00   21 87      31 40      13.08
PO56308     1999 CN-PENSIONREFORMPJT                            0.00      5.00                  0.00     0 00    109         106      0.00
PO60270     1999 CN-ENTERPRISEREFORMLN                          0.00      5.00                  0.00     0 00    180        3 30      3.08
PO46629     1999 CN-RENEWABLEENERGY DEVELOPMENT                100.00     0.00                  0.00     0 00    9 03      96 03      6.16
PO46564     1999 CN Gansu& Inner MongoliaPoverty Red.          60.00     100.00                 0.00    1330    22 26      22 51
                    ~                                                                                                                -13.24
PO46051     I999 CN-HIGHER EDUC.REFORM                         20.00      50.00                 0.00     0 00    5 69       7 31      0.00
PO03653     1999 CN-ContainerTransport                         71.00      0.00                  0.00    1861     2 71      21 32       1.27
PO43933     1999 CN-SICHUANURBAN ENVMT                         150.00     2.00                  0.00     0 00   80 95      90 04      33.22




                                                                - 82 -

                                                                                                                   Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                                 OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'

ProjectID   FY   Purpose                                    iBRD         iDA                    GEF   Cancel. Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO42299    1999 TEC COOP CREDITIV                               10.00     35 00                 0 00    0 00   33 18      -14 16       0.00

PO41690    1999 CN-Liaoning UrbanTransport                     150.00      0 00                 0 00    0 00   1667        1687        0.00

PO36953    I999 CN-HEALTH IX (ShiyongWang, Back-up)             1000      50 00                 0 00    0 40   29 39       22 17       0.27

PO56216    I999 CN -LOESS PLATEAUII                            10000      50 00                 0 00    0 00   10 77       12 91      -3.59

PO51868    1999 CN GUANZHONGIRRIGATION
                  -                                             60.00     20 00                 0 00    0 00   21 30       20 40       0.00

PO51656    1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM& DEVELOPMENT                  27.40      5 60                 0 00    0 00   1621         16 11      0.00

PO51705    1999 CN-Fujian IIHighway                            200.00      0 00                 0 00    0 00   43 45       43 45       0 00

PO50036    1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                           200.00      0 00                 0 00    9 60   20 23       29 63       0.00

PO49665    1999 CN-ANNINGVALLEY AG DEV                          90.00     30 00                 0 00    0 00    1293        12 10      0.00

PO03606    1996 ENERGY CONSERVATION                             63.00      0 00                22 00    0 00   30 14       20 02       0.00

PO03566    1996 CN-BASIC HEALTH(HLTH8)                           0.00     85 00                 0 00    0 00   33 62       25 76       0.00
PO03539    1998 CN SUSTAINABLE COASTALRESOURCESDE              100.00      0 00                 0 00    2 06   42 16       44 24       0.37

PO36414    1996 CN-GUANGXIURBANENVMT                            72.00     20 00                 0 00    10 19  56 34        67 53     36.27

P035696    1996 HUNAN POWERDEVELOP                             300.00      0 00                 0 00   14500   21 52      16652        0.01

PO03619    1996 CN-2nd Inland Waterways                        123.00      0 00                 0 00    37 00   14 13       51 13      4.94

PO03614    1996 CN-GuangzhouCity Transport                     200.00      0 00                 0 00    20 00   96 98     11898       96.98

PO36949    1996 CN-Nat HwyBHubei                               250.00      0 00                  0 00    0 00   21 16       21 15      0.00

PO37659    1998 CN-GEF EnergyConservation                        0.00      0 00                 22 00    0 00    0 71       22 06      0.00

PO45786    I996 CN-Tn-ProvincialHwy                            230.00      0 00                  0 00    0 00   15 14       15 14       0.00

PO46952    1996 CN -FOREST DEV POORAR                          100.00     10000                  0 00    0 00   21 97      -76 59     14.60

PO49700    I998 CN IAIL-2
                   -                                           300.00      0 00                  0 00    0 00    121         121        1.21

PO51736    1996 E CHINNJIANGSU PWR                             250.00      0 00                  0 00   86 00   33 39      11939      16.97

PO40185    1996 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                         96.00      0 00                  0 00    140    20 07       21 47     15.60

PO03590    1997 CN - QINBA  MOUNTAINSPOVERTYREDUCTIO            30.00     15000                  0 00    0 00    3 16        6 55       3.91

PO03654    1997 CN-Nat Hv@/Hunan-Guangdong                     400.00      0 00                  0 00    0 00   21 04       21 04     21.04

PO36405    1997 CN - WANJlAZHAl   WATERTRA                     400.00       0 00                 0 00   75 00   1191        86 91       3 20

PO44465    1997 SHANGHAIWAIGAOQIAO                             400.00       0 00                 0 00    0 00   66 16       50 16     54 39

PO03650    1997 TUOKETUOPOWEWINNER                             400.00       0 00                 0 00  10250    26 32      13062      26.32

PO03637    1997 CN-NAT'L RURALWATER 3                            0.00      70 00                 0 00    0 00    0 56        3 77       3.35

PO03594    1996 CN GANSUHEXICORRIDOR
                   -                                            60.00      90 00                 0 00    0 00   71 13       52 61       0 00

P003599    1996 CN-YUNNANENVMT                                 125.00      25 00                 0 00   1946    30 16       51 40      15.45

P003602    1996 CN-HUBEIURBANENVIRONMENT                       125.00      25 00                 0 00   47 32   10 77       60 13       3.14

PO34616    1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV                             10.00      20 00                 0 00    0 00    5 46        7 61       0.00

PO40513    1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                             210.00       0 00                 0 00   1900    12 86       31 86      27.88

PO03596    1995 CN-Yangtze BasinWater ResourcesProject         100.00     11000                  0 00    192     0 06        4 47       4.47

PO03603    1995 CN-ENT HOUSING& SSR                            275.00      75 00                 0 00   57 46   37 63       92 94      14.60

PO03639    1995 CN-SOUTHWESTPOVERTY REDUCTIONPROJE              47.50     200 00                 0 00    0 01    0 60       24 67      24.87

PO03540     1994 CN-LOESSPLATEAU                                 0.00     15000                  0 00    0 00     0 01       -0 67      0.00

PO03632     1993 CN-ENVIRONMENTTECH ASS                          0.00      50 00                 0 00    0 00     0 76        131       0.99

                                                      Total  1191137     155260               20650    827 17  512803     274706      45662




                                                                 - 83 -

                                              CHINA
                                      STATEMENT OF IFc's
                                     Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                           Mar 2004
                                                 -
                                      InMillionsUSDollars


                                                        Committed                     Disbursed
                                                       IFC                          IFC
FY Approval    Company                           Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
2002           ASIMCO                            0.00   10.00     0.00  0.00   0.00   10.00   0.00  0.00
2003           Anjia                             0.00     2.00    0.00  0.00   0.00    2.00   0.00  0.00
2004           Antai                            40.00     0.00    0.00 30.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2003           BCIB                              0.00    0.00    11.60  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1999100102     Bank of Shanghai                  0.00   24.67     0.00  0.00   0.00   24.67   0.00  0.00
2002           CDH China Fund                    0.00   10.92     0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
2003           CSMC                              0.00    9.45     0.00  0.00   0.00    8.92   0.00  0.00
2004           CUNA Mutual                       0.00   12.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    1.47   0.00  0.00
1998           ChengduHuarong                    5.61    3.20     0.00  6.25   5.61    3.20   0.00  6.25
1992           China Bicycles                    4.50    0.00     0.00  0.00   4.50    0.00   0.00  0.00
2004           China GreenEner                  20.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2004           China I1                         28.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2004           China ReLife                      0.00   15.41     0.00  0.00   0.00   15.41   0.00  0.00
1994           China Walden Mgt                  0.00    0.01     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.01   0.00  0.00
2004           Colony China                      0.00   17.31     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.33   0.00  0.00
2005           DMK                               0.00    4.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00  0.00
2002           Darong                           10.00     1.50    0.00  8.00   0.00    1.50   0.00  0.00
1995           Dupont Suzhou                     6.23    0.00     0.00  0.00   6.23    0.00   0.00  0.00
1994           Dynamic Fund                      0.00     7.79    0.00  0.00   0.00    6.13   0.00  0.00
2004           Fenglin                          19.00    6.00     0.00 18.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2003           Great Infotech                    0.00    3.50     0.00  0.00   0.00    2.80   0.00  0.00
2002           HuarongAMC                        9.00    2.51     0.00  0.00   9.00    0.01   0.00  0.00
2004           IB                                0.00   52.18     0.00  0.00   0.00   52.18   0.00  0.00
2002           IEC    '                         20.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2004           Jiangxi Chenming                  0.00   12.90     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
1998           Leshan Scana                      3.46     1.35    0.00  0.00   3.46    1.35   0.00  0.00
2001           MaanshanCarbon                    8.25    2.00     0.00  0.00   8.25    2.00   0.00  0.00
2001           Minsheng Bank                     0.00   23.50     0.00  0.00   0.00   23.50   0.00  0.00
2001           NCCB                              0.00   26.58     0.00  0.00   0.00   26.46   0.00  0.00
1996104        NanjingK u d o                   34.00    2.23     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2001           New China Life                    0.00   13.21     0.00  0.00   0.00    5.83   0.00   0.00
1995           NewbridgeInv.                     0.00     1.95    0.00  0.00   0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00
1997           Orient Finance                    5.71    0.00     0.00  7.14   5.71    0.00   0.00   7.14
2003           PSAM                              0.00     1.93    0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2003           SAlC                             12.00    0.00     0.00  0.00   5.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
2000           SEAF SSIF                         0.00    4.50     0.00  0.00   0.00    1.02   0.00  0.00
2004           SIBFI                             0.00    0.08    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.08   0.00  0.00
1998           ShanghaiKrupp                    26.25    0.00    0.00  57.74  26.25    0.00   0.00  57.74
1999           ShanghaiMidway                    0.00   16.02    0.00   0.00   0.00   16.02   0.00  0.00
1993           Shanxi                           12.61    0.00    0.00   0.00  12.61    0.00   0.00  0.00
2002           Shenzhen PCCP                     3.76    0.00    0.00   0.00   3.76    0.00   0.00  0.00
2001           Sino Gold                         0.00    4.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    4.00   0.00  0.00
1995          Sino-Forest                        5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00
              Suzhou PVC                         0.00    2.48    0.00   0.00   0.00    2.48   0.00  0.00
                     Total Portfolio:         329.14   335.40    11.60 134.13 137.28 238.90    0.00 73.99




                                              - 84 -

                                             Approvals Pending Commitment
FYApproval    Company                      Loan     Equity      Quasi    Partic
2004          CCB-MSNPL                     0.00       0.00      3.00     0.00
2003          Cellon                        0.00       0.00      5.70     0.00
2004          ChenmingLWC                 60.00        0.00      0.00    155.00
2004          China Green                   0.00     10.00       0.00     0.00
2002          HuarongAMC                   15.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          IEC                           0.00       5.00      0.00     0.00
2005          MSShipping                   15.75       0.00      5.00     0.00
2004          NCFL                          0.00       0.00     17.88     0.00
2005          NHC                           0.00     45.00       0.00     0.00
2003          Peak Pacific 2                0.00       0.00     10.00     0.00
2004          SIBFI                         0.26       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          SML                           1.oo       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          Sino Mining                   5.00       0.00      0.00     5.00
2005          Vetroarredo                   8.00       0.00      0.00     0.00
2002          Zhong Chen                    0.00       0.00      0.00    32.00

             Total PendingCommitment:     105.01     60.00      41.58    192.00




                                       - 85 -

                                                 Annex IO: Country at a Glance
                   CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIESDEVELOPMENTPROJECT
                                                                 East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Asla 8 mlddle-
                                                       China   Paclflc Income         Development diamond'
2002
Population, mid-year(millions)                         12810     1838      2,411                  Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita(Atlas method, US$)                          950      950     1390
GNI(Atlas method, US$billions)                          1219.1   1740     3,352                          T
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population PA)                                            0.8       1.0      10
Labor force PA)                                           0.9       12       12       GNI

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                 per
                                                                                      capita
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovetlyline)             5
Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                      38        38       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                              71       69       69                          i
Infantmortality (per lPOOlivebirths)                      30        33       30
Child malnutrition(%ofchildrenunder5)                      0         6        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source(%ofpopulation)          75        76       81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 5+)                           n         U       U
Gross primary enrollment (?Aofschool-age population)      x16      x16       111        -China
   Male                                                   a5       135       111               Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                 138      a6        113

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1982     1992     2001    2002
                                                                                       Economlc ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               221.5  454.6    167.1   1232.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    33.2    36.2     38.5     410
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                 8.9     19.5    25.5     29.5                        Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                        34.8    37.7     40.9     44.0
Gross national savings/GDP                        35.1   38.0     40.0     43.8                          T
Currentaccount balance/GDP                        2.4     19        15      2.9
Interestpayments/GDP                              0.2     0.6      0.5      0.5
Total debt/GDP                                    3.8     15.9     U.6      P.6
Total debt service/exports                        8.0     8.6      7.7       6.1
Present value of debt/GDP                                          U.l
Present value of debt/exports                                      51.8                              Indebtedness
                                    1982.92 1992-02     2001    2002 2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      9.7      9.0     7.5       8.0      7.5          -China

GDP DercaDita                            8.1      8.0     6.7       7.2      6.6                 Lower-middle-incomeCVOUD


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                               1982     1992     2001     2002         Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                      33.3     218      15.8     14.5     20

Industry                                         45.0    43.9      50.1     51.7      15

  Manufacturing                                  37.3     33.1    34.2     44.5       10
                                                                                     l o '
Services                                          21.7   34.3      34.1    33.7        5

Private consumption                              50.7    49.2     45.7     42.5               97     98    99    00    01
General governmentconsumption                     14.5    u.1      u.4      0.5                 ~          :     ~         ~



Imports of goods and services                     7.3     18.0     23.1    26.5                  -GDI           -GDP


                                            1982-92 1992-02      2001     2002      1 Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                          1
Agriculture                                       4.6     3.7       2.8      2.9
Industry                                          11.6    11.3      8.4      9.9
   Manufacturing                                  11.2    a.4       9.0      8.1
Services                                          11.7    8.4       8.4      7.3

Private consumption                               11.4    8.1       2.8      1.9
General governmentconsumption                     9.9     8.4      13.5      7.0
Gross domestic investment                         9.5     9.7      u.9      n.9     1
Imports of goodsand services                      9.7     12.8     a.8     27.5               -Exports         -Imports        1




                                                                   - 86 -

                                                                                                                          China

PRICES a n d GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1982   1992      2001     2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                            6.0    6.4       0.7      4.8
Implicit GDP deflator                     4.2     7.9       1.2      -2.6

Government finance
@of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                          22.9     16.7      77.1     17.9
Cwrent budget balance                             2.0        1.1     0.0
Overall surplusideficit                   4.3     -1.0     4.7       -3.0     1           -0GDP     deflator    -CPI            I

                                                                           7                                                    1
TRADE
                                        1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                  Export and Import levels (US0 mill.)

Total exports (fob)                     22,321 84.940   266,155  325,565
 Food                                   2,908   8,309    12.780   14,623
 Fuel                                    5,314  4,693     8,420    8,372       300,000
 Manufactures                           P,271  67,936  239,802   297,085
Total imports (cif)                     8,285  80,585   243,60   295,203       200.000

 Food                                    4,201  3,166    4,980     5,237
 Fueland energy                            a3   3,570    77,495   8,285         1 ~ , 0 0 0

                                                                              I
 Capital goods                          3,204  31,312   x)7,040  737,030               0

Exportprice index (895=fJO)                 41     85       83        78                    96  97   98     99    00

Importprice index (895=WO)                  71     95        91       86                        Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (895=M0)                    58      89        91       90

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982    1992     2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                  Current account balance t o GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services           24,906 94,m    299,409   365,395
Imports of goods and services           20,555 86,752   271,325  328,073       'T
Resource balance                        4,350   7,446   28,084    37,383

Net income                                376     249    -8,774   -16,945
Netcurrent transfers                      486    1 8 5    8,492    P.984

Current account balance                  5,212  8,850     V,401   35,422

Financing items (net)                    -995  49.52    30,046    40,085
Changes in net reserves                 4277    2.a2    -47,447  -75,507       1      96     97   96    99      00    01     02  I
Memo:
Reserves including gold(Us$millionS)           24,842   220,051  297,721
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWS$)             2.4    5.9       8.3       8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                        1982    1992     2001      2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 1 Composition      of 2002 debt (US0 mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     8,358 72,428    VO.lX7  65,878
  lBRD                                       0  3,752     tt550    P,051
  IDA                                        1  4,287     8,654    8,729                                    A 9.051

Total debt service                       2,P5   8,68     24,297   23,688
  iBRD                                       0    460     1,550      1,631
  IDA                                        0     30        151      175

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                          47     327       240
  Official creditors                      657   2,343     2,156     -839
  Private creditors                       -P2   8,949     4,077   -0,593
  Foreign direct investment               430   11,156   44,241   49.308
  Portfolio equity                           0  1243      3.015    2,286
                                                                                                  F 62.133
World Bank program
  Commitments                             330   1865        782      563         A - IBRD                           E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                              1   1331      1791     1733         B IDA
                                                                                   -          D Other multilateral
                                                                                               -                    F Private
                                                                                                                     .
  Principal repayments                      0     197       904      1,157       C - I M F                          G -Short-term




                                                            - 87 -

  Additional Annex I 1:Summaries of ParticipatoryApproach and SocialAssessment
              CHINA: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIESDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

A. Summary of PRCDP ParticipatoryApproach

1. Introduction
The Project Development Objective (PDO) o f PRCDP includes the aim to "achieve sustainedparticipation
of the poorest rural people". This means that PRCDP will fully involve poor people from project villages in
the design, implementation, monitoring and impact assessment o f the project.

The extent to which villagers are involved, i.e. participate, inall aspects o f the project is critical. A key
performance indicator for the PDO is the "degree o f effective participation o f communities.. throughout
                                                                                                    .
the whole project cycle". The Participatory Approach outlined inthis annex i s designedto ensure
communities do participate effectively, and that their engagement is neither passive, nor limitedto being
respondents in `community consultations'.

2. Background
There is anincreasing recognitionthat participationcan be useful for better targeted and more effective
poverty alleviation, but there is limitedexperience to date o f usingparticipation throughout the project
cycle incommunity-centred projects within the government system inChina. Nonetheless, Chinesepoverty
alleviation work is progressively moving from mechanistic fulfilment o f plans and targets formulated at
higher levels inthe government hierarchy, towards one inwhich the poor themselves increasingly play an
active role. Thus Village Development Plans (VDPs) initiative is an importantprecedent to the
participatory approach inPRCDP. The broad coverage andwide acceptanceo f VDPs has successfully
promoted the concept of participation, raisingthe importance o f target group consultation for successful
poverty alleviation. However VDP was limitedinits scope as a fully participatory process, as the views o f
villagers were not adequately reflected, nor were they disaggregated according to social group. The process
was owned andguided from above, andVDP was, as its name suggests, a planningexercise. I t didnot
entail community participation inthe implementationor monitoring o fthe resultant poverty alleviation
activities. Inaddition to VDP, there is a growing base o f experience inusingparticipatory methodologes in
South-West China, but this is mostly limitedto PRA-type methods, used for project planning and needs
assessments. Therefore, the PRCDP participatory approach builds on the foundations o f VDP and other
participation experiences, but goes beyondplanning tools as it aims to empower local communities and be
fully inclusive of all marginalised social groups throughout the project cycle.

3. Justification for taking a participatory approach
Simply put, the development community has found that when primary project stakeholders-individuals
and community-based organisations -participate inWorld Bank and other donor supported activities,
development relevance and outcomes improve, andproject-supported activities tend to be more sustainable.
Thus projects with highlevels of community participationtendto be better targeted, have better impact,
and that impact tends to be more enduring. To yield all these advantages, participationmustbe seen and
usedinall stages of PRCDP, notjust as a tool inpreparation of the project.

Community participation indesign means that investments occur on structures andservices that better
reflect communities' needs. Participationinproject implementation improves quality and efficiency o f
contracting andprocurement, and can enhance relations among members o f groups that do not traditionally
cooperate, andbetween villages and government agency staff. Transparency and accountability are


                                                      - 88 -

improvedthrough the project cycle as a result of participation. Participationinmonitoring and evaluation
enables communities to assess whether investments have succeeded according to criteria that are important
to themselves as well as the lender andborrower.

For these benefits to be achievedby PRCDP, the project implementingagenciesneed to continue shifting
their perception o f participation from as afunctional operation, whereby communities arejust consulted
about plans formulated from above, to beingan empoweringprocess that emphasisesthe voices and
choices o f different groups inthe community, andbuildstheir ownership of, and capacities for, self-reliant
community development.

3.1 Costs & benefits of the approach
While the benefits from a participatory approach can be very significant andenduring, it is important to
recognise that the approach often entails an `up-front' cost at the beginningo fthe project. However the
evidence from World Bank investments globally is that these initial costs are more than off-set by the
returns from better impact and more sustainable outcomes inthe longrun.

The main costs inthe approach are:

     Costs associatedwith training and capacity building:

     Buildingawareness, capacity and support fromproject partners at all levels
     Facilitator Training (facilitators at County, Township and Village levels)

     Introducingthe participatory approach to villagers

     Costs associatedwith facilitating the on-going participatory project cycle process:

     Facilitating all stages of the project cycle inthe village

     Materials for participatory meetings, etc.

     Data collection, storage, analysis, reporting andinformation dissemination

     Reflective learning   -improvingparticipation

The specific costs of training andcapacity buildingwill mainly depend on (i)       the number o f andtype o f
awarenessraising activities and (ii)   the number o f facilitators at each level, andthe type o f training they are
given. The Provinces' Project Management Offices (PMOs) will needto determine these costs for
themselves andallocate sufficient budget to the activities. However there is guidance giveninthe
Participation Manual (an annex to the PRCDP Operational Manual) on costing. It is considered that there
shouldbe one set o f training for facilitators drawn ffom County and Township staff, and another for village
facilitators. It is further recommended that the training itself takes a participatory, hands-on, approach, and
trains facilitators insmall batches.

The specific costs of facilitating the on-going participatory process are llnked to the project cycle stages,
andthencehowmany facilitators are involvedineachstage for how manydays. Again, guidance is given in
the ParticipationManual, but the Provinces' PMOs will needto make their own calculations andbudget
accordingly.

Inrelationto boththese sets ofcosts, it shouldbenotedthat the preferredapproach relies heavily onvillage
facilitators, with few inputs from highlevel officers or outside experts. This bothminimises costs and


                                                       - 89 -

ensures that capacity for leading participatory approachesis being developed within the communities
themselves.

General benefits of the participatory approachhave beenelaborated above, more specifically, these may be
dividedinto economic benefits andsocial & institutionalbenefits, to which it is difficult to assigna
monetary value. Exampleso f the economic benefits o fparticipation include:

    better infrastructure maintenance by communities inprojects usinga participatory approach - therefore
    lower maintenance costs by government

    better school attendance and exam results at schools where there is community participationinthe
    project, and similarlybetter immunisation rates at clinics developed by participatory projects -
    therefore better retums to the investment

    better quality of infrastructure construction inparticipatoryprojects -therefore a longer life cycle and
    retumperiod for the investment

    communities are more willing to contribute time and resourcesto participatory projects, especially if
    participation extends to some control o f the funds themselves - therefore reduced direct costs for the
    borrower.


4. The Approach indetail
PRCDP is a poor people-centered project, that has been designed to comply with WB and DFID
requirements, especially with WB social safeguardpolicies. These requirementsfocus on the inclusion of
poor and marginal groups (poor households, poor naturalvillages, ethnic minorities, women, the disabled,
single-headed households and older people). To address this, PRCDP will therefore adopt aparticipatory
approach based on the following two principles:

e   Different poverty groups are identifed and their needs addressed efectively by project interventions.
    This targeting principle means that the approach starts by identifyingpoverty groups (including
    households, sub-villages, women, small ethnic minorities, disadvantaged groups) usingcriteria
    generatedby villagers themselves Primary targeting is done by PMOSon the basis of geographical
    distiribution of: poverty according to official measures, o f e t h c minorities, andon remoteness.Within
    administrative villages, poverty i s disaggregated usinga participatory approach. The different needs
    of these different poverty groups will be reflectedthrough participatory planning.

e   Poor communities effectively participate in PRCDP throughout theproject cycle. Poor communities
    and poor groups (including ethnic minorities and women) participate inthe entire project cycle and
    fully expresstheir opinions; there is transparency o fthe entire process; the focus is onthe needs of
    poor sub-villages and disadvantaged groups (ethnic minorities, women). Participationwill be employed
    throughout the project cycle to ensure that activities are drivenby poor peoples' priorities and that
    these are reflected inannual planning processesand that access to funds is demand-driven.


Inpracticalterms, participationinPRCDPmaybeseeninterms oftwo levels:

e   ParticipationinPRCDP design

e   Participation inPRCDP post-appraisal




                                                     - 90 -

PRCDPproject design has utilisedaparticipatoryapproach. The Feasibility Studies undertaken during
preparationhave focused on a set o f sample villages inwhich in-depthparticipatorydesign activities have
occurred. The focus has been on Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) to work with communities to
identifypoverty groups andpoverty criteria intheir villages, andParticipatory Planning(PP) to facilitate
the involvement o f poor people indecision-making processesaround planningwhat PRCDP should do in
their village. This in-depth participation indesign has taken place to a greater or lesser extent in 18 villages
inGuangxi,20% o fPRCDPvillages inSichuanand 18villages inYunnan.Inadditionto informingthe
Provinces' proposals, these participatory exerciseshave also ledto further development and improvement
o f the PPA andPP methodologies.

Post-appraisal, the participatory approach will utilise the PPA andPP methodologies as part of a
participatory project cycle that will be followed for the project as a whole, and at a micro-level within
project villages. The participatoryproject cycle consists o f four main steps:

0    Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA)

0    Participatory Planning (PP)

0    Participatory Implementation (PI)

0    Participatory M&E (PM&E)




  Traditional                             Participatory
  Planning                                PPA and PP, and integration o f PPs with county plans
Budgeting                                 Continues to be a county/township function, though there are
                                          opportunities for communities to make decisions on budgets
                                          with village allocations. Part ofparticipatory planning
Procurement                               Procurement will involve principles of community
                                          participation- at the minimum, improved information flow to
                                          improve transparency and accountability, but community
                                          contracting andfundmanagement will be tested. This is part
                                          o f Darticiuatorv imdementation
/Implementation of specific              IParticipatory implementation                                       I
projects/constructiono f infrastructure
  Supervision o f implementation          PM&E and assessmento f the use o fparticipatory approach
  process                                 according to standards for quality o f participation

These participatory project cycle steps are elaborated below:

4.1 Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA)
PPA is participatorypoverty assessment that will be undertakenby villagers, especially the poor and the
disadvantaged,usually with outside facilitation, of their poverty situation and their development needs and



                                                      -91 -

options. Itwill help to identify differentsocial groups within the communities andhouseholds under
consideration; and it will help inbetter understanding poverty, especially from villagers' perspectives.

The main elements o f PPA will be:

0    Sub-village sampling (i.e. identification o fpoor natural villages)

0    Identification o f within-village poverty groups (social disaggregation)

0    Seasonality poverty analysis

0   Poverty history and trend analysis

0   Vulnerability analysis

0    Institutional analysis

0    Gender analysis onpoverty

0    Analysis o f the poverty situation o f ethnic groups

0    Assessment of Problems and Solutions -by discussing ,priorities and preferences, and conflicts and
     conflict resolutionoption this step will help to determine community expectations, possible
     contributions, potential conflicts andthe solutions for implementing the projects


The methods usedinthese activities will be a combinationofhousehold-basedinterviewing and focus
group discussions / participation sessions with villagers and villagers' representatives.

The choices ofpoor and the disadvantaged groups as revealedinpriorities, preferences, suggestionsand
recommendations will be analysed andusedas the basis for participatory planning. The PPA also provides
a poverty framework and poverty baseline against which impact will laterbe assessed.

4.2 Participatory Planning (PP)
Participatory Planning is a decision-makingprocesswhere poverty groups andother stakeholders have
opportunity to participate actively andvoice their priorities and preferences regardingformulation o f
village-levelhub-project development objectives, approaches andactivities as well as on resource allocation
andproject management issues.

The advantages o f PP are that it can:

0    provide an effective and interactive platform for community participationand transparent
     decision-malung andalso a negotiating processwhere different stakeholders such as poor and
     disadvantagedhouseholdslgroups, community leaders andcounty andtownship officials can be
     actively involved inproducinga local development strategy

0    helpto ensure that project components, activities and interventions are formulated insuch a manner,
     that they will meet the development demands o f the differentpoverty groups. Their participation can
     help inbetter targeting o fproject resources,to minimize/avoid mis-targeting inresource allocation, and
     ensure better targeting o fbenefit from the projects and consequently beneficiary satisfaction.

0    create `ownership' by the poor and enhance their commitment to participate inthe whole project life
     cycle, such as annual planning, involvement inthe implementation, labour contribution, M&E and
     maintenance of the constructed community infrastructures, etc.



                                                       - 92 -

Inthe context ofPRCDP, the PPprocesswillhaveto take place withinthe limitationsofcounty planning,
County plans, as partof the overall implementation planfor PRCDP will specify the following aspects o f
implementation:

0    Investment scales andpercentagesfor different sub-projects

0    Terms o f procurement and payment

0    Means o f implementation by projects

0    Types o f funds, fund sources and their purposes


Duringthe implementationofPRCDP, project activities andallocation of fundingwill befurther specified
withm annualplanning.The purpose ofparticipatory planning at the village level will be to support
allocationo fproject fundingwithinvillages. However, PP at the village level will take place withinthe
limitations set by county plans, including:

0    Totalbudget available for the community

0    Proportions for productive I non-productive activities

0    Mainproject contents (as specified witlun the feasibility study)


There can easily be a tension between bottom-up planswhich maybe over ambitious or overly expensive
and top-down plans that may not reflect the expressedneeds o f poor communities. InPRCDP this tension
i s realised where village level PPs and counties plans meet. There is a need for an integrationprocess. The
main steps for integration will be:

 1. Allocation ofbudgets to villages, prior to PP.

2. PP at village level, basedon findings from PPAs.
 3. Integrationo f PP results andproposed implementationprinciples into the existing draft county plans;
     modifying andamendingthe existing county plan accordingly to ensure they are better targeted at
     poverty.
4. Technical appraisal, approval and feedback to villages.

 5. Implementationo f sectoral projects at the village levelandmonitoringo f implementationprocess and
     technical quality.


PP itself will entail:

 1. Follow-on from PPA, whereinpoverty analysis, priorities of the community, especially of the poor
      groups, poverty analysis and solutionslstrategy have been elaborated-confirmingthe findingsfrom
      PPA.
 2. Based on achieving the agreed objectives o f poverty groups, andtakingthe PPA solutionslstrategy
      outputs, project officials will work with target groups to develop specific project activities as well as
     budgetallocations.




                                                       - 93 -

3. Withpoverty groups, determine their prioritization o f the project activities.

4. The draft PP will be cross-referencedto county plan, modifiedaccordingly, and fedback to the
    villagers.
5. A management planfor the village for the implementation of the project activities as well as the
    associatedproject budgetwill be developed. This will include achieving consensus amongst
     stakeholders on project management such as who will be on the managementgroup, implementation
    rules, etc.

6. Produce and share a PP reportlproposal, and submittingto local government andPRCDP project
    office.
These steps will involve a range o f different facilitated participatory tools, such as ranking, scoring and
matrices.

4.3 Participatory Implementation (PI)
Participatory implementationrelatesto how communities will be involved inimplementationtakingplace at
village level, and how a participatory approach will be usedfor different types of sub-projects.

Coordination andimplementation structures will be established at village level. T h ~ will ideally be a
                                                                                         s
coordination group, but may be an individual inthe village, who will coordinate the planning and
implementation processbetween different natural villages, and a Project ImplementationGroup who will be
drawn fiom where the project is beingimplemented (e.g. certain naturalvillages). The coordination
grouplperson will have to balance group interests (with fairness andtransparency and ensure pro-poor
related interestdactivities), coordinate issues which are beyondthe naturalvillages, ensure appropriate
convergence o f social and technical validation, facilitate communicationbetween different parts o f the
village andvillage groups andresolve conflicts as and when required.The implementationgroup will be
responsible for organising physical works, procurement andmonitoring the work progress.

To ensure that the coordinationand implementation structures are representative o f all groups, especially
poverty groups inthe village, the people on them will be elected ina village plenary meetingor villagers'
representative meetings. Such meetings will need to be organised in a transparent and fair manner and ways
are found to enable the poor to express their views and priorities.

Duringthe processofproject implementationconflicting interests are likely to emerge withinthe village.
The decision-malung process o f the project implementation group must be robust enough to demonstrate
fairness and impartiality inits decisions. The goup will have to take special care where the poor and
disadvantaged groups are involved inconflict situation with wealher groups at the local level.

The entire implementationprocess, including expenditure andresource allocationwill be made transparent
to villagers through good communication. All important aspects o f sub-project planning (including main
activities, budget andexpenses) andimplementation (including contracting, procurement and monitoring)
will bepublicised inthe village inways which can reacheven the poorest of the poor households, either
through displaying it on village notice boards or by holding small group meetingsindifferent localities.

The community will play an important role inquality control inPRCDP. Together with the township
technicians, the implementationgroup will supervise the process o f implementationand actively suggest
improvements where needed. This will require some orientation for villagers to grasp the technical aspects
of the assets beingcreated, and for technicians to have faith inthe abilities o f villagers to undertake
activities such as monitoring contractors' work, or even select contractors.


                                                      - 94 -

Inrelationto different types of sub-project, the followingpoints gives anindicationofhowthe
participatory approach will be used:

    Infrastructure construction.

    For construction projects that need to acquire land, such as village road construction, the community
    needsto participate inthe discussion and agreement of compensation for the land acquired.
    Villagers Ineeds to decide the principles for contributions o f labour (voluntarylpaid, gender
    differentials, who gets paid labour, etc).

    train the members of project implementationgroups with skills for managmg materials and money.

    Villagers' representatives, technicians and project managerswilljointly monitor the project, examine
    and approve it upon completion.

    Health sector.
    Participatory development o f training material andtraining on preventive health care for different
    groups
4.4 Participatory M&E (PM&E)
A basic premise o f PM&E is the acknowledgement that different socio-economic groups will have differing
measures o fproject success and impact, andwill be affected by the project differently. The PM&E system
will thus encompassthe full range ofpoverty groups inthe PRCDP villages. This links closely to the PPA
and PP stages o f the participatory project cycle: PPA will identifythe different social groups, PP will
elucidate their needs andaspirations, and actively seek out their differentat the planningstage; PM&E will
check whether these objectives have been met.

The basic the principles o fPM&E are that:

0    What is to be assessed(Le the indicators) shouldbe selectedwith community involvement.

0    The indicators should be monitoredor assessedwith community involvement.

0    PM&E will be undertaken with differentpoverty groups.


The mainsteps of PM&E will be:

1. Basedon different project activities andpurposes, villagers select or recommendpeople at the village
     andpoverty group levels to be involved inPM&E.

2. These people agree sets of indicators for activities, outputs andimpacts.
3. They agree a PM&E plan with Township staff, including: when to monitor, what monitoring methods
     will be used, how to record andpresent results, how to disseminate the results, andhow to act on the
     findings.
4. They commence regular participatory monitoring according to the plan.
5. Findings are shared and, indiscussion with Township staff, any corrective action inPRCDP
     implementation is taken.
6. They undertakeperiodic participatory evaluation.



                                                     - 95 -

 The PM&E methods will includestakeholderworkshops,joint assessmentsusingPRA tools and
 beneficiary assessment, and self-evaluation usingmethods such as score cards. The choice of methods and
 tools from these three types will be dnven by the choice o f objectives and indicators, andthus how they
 mightbebest assessed.

 4.5 Roles in theparticipatory project cycle

 The following table outlines the roles of the various levels of officials andselectedrepresentativesinthe
 project cycle detailed inthe preceding sections.

                         PPA         Participatory Feasibility         Participatory      P M&E
~Who
                                     planning          assessment      implementation
 Province PMO          Monitor       Monitor           Monitor         Monitor            Monitor
 County PMO             Coordinate   Coordinate        Coordinate      Monitor            Monitor
 County Bureaus        To be         To be informed Implement          Monitor           To be informed
                        informed
 Township work          Facilitate   Facilitate        Communicate Support               Support
 station
                                                                                                           1
 Village leaders        Support      Support          Support           Coordinate/      Facilitate (and
                                                                       Organise          monitor?)
 Project                                               Support          Coordinate/       onitor and
                                                                       Organise          ~ocument




 5. Training & capacity building
 The project will traintwo tiers o f facilitators:

0     One set o f facilitators drawn from County and Township staff. The majoritywill be from the
      Township.

0     One set o f village facilitators.


 There will need to be clarity about the roles of these two tiers o f facilitators and recognition o f this by the
 project staff, bureaus and cadres, and the communities is important for smoothrunningo f PRCDP. The
 role of township facilitators will be to initiate and support the participatory approach inproject villages;
 later, they would guide the monitoring and evaluation and document the implementationprocess. Village
 facilitators will be important inthe PPA and PPprocesses and incoordinating and facilitating the
 implementationprocess.

 Both sets o f facilitators will receive training tailored to their roles, andthe model thereafter will be for
 township facilitators to work with village facilitators at the start o f each step inthe project cycle. This will
 reinforce the training through leaming-by-doing, and the village facilitators will increasing take the lead on
 each step as their facilitation skills develop.

 The level of facilitators will have implications interms of cost. Forminga cadre o fvillage facilitators and
 buildingtheir capacity implies lower cost for the project. However it is not enough to have a sets ofvillage



                                                         - 96 -

andtownship level facilitators, they also needto be empowered to take onthe spot decisions, ifnecessary,
on behalfo f PRCDP. Hence, decentralization o f decision-making would empower township and village
facilitators andcontribute positively towards the quality o f decision-making within the project. It would
strengthen teambuildinginPRCDP and"ownershp" ofproject at different levels o f the management
system. However it means that senior staff needto have faithboth intheir facilitators' abilities andinthe
participatory process itself. Thus changes o f attitudes and administrative procedures inthe conventional
systemo f governance are impliedfor PRCDP for introducing andsustaining people's participation. Inthis
context, the needfor advocacy at differentinstitutional tiers inPRCDP should not be under-estimated.

Therefore, there will be four sets o f training & capacity buildingactivities, and each o f these will have
customised content, and use mediaand delivery mechanisms tailored to the specific audience. The different
audiences will be:

     Leaders & senior decision makers. This will be awarenessraising and advocacy. Sessions will include:
     the poverty alleviation context o fparticipation, the concept o fparticipation, the costs and benefits of
     participation, the institutional fit of the approach, leadership inthe context o f community participation
     andcommunity empowerment.
     Trainers. This will be training o f trainers. Sessions will include: the concept o f participation, PRCDP,
     training methods, participatory tools.
     Facilitators (two separate groups: Township andVillage). This will be training infacilitation,
     specifically facilitation o f the participatory project cycle. Sessions will include: the concept o f
     participation, PRCDP, participatory tools, conflict management, facilitation skills. Facilitators will be
     crucial for ensuring the scope and quality o fparticipation. Their capacities need to be built up ina
     longer process, through training and ongoing learningandsharing with other facilitators, such as
     through a network o f PRCDP facilitators.


6. Maintainingquality of participation
6.1 TheParticipation Manual
A Participation Manual (PM) hasbeenproduced as anannex to the PRCDP Operational Manual. The aim
o f this document is to provide guidance to management staff and county/township facilitators on how to
implement andmonitor the participatory approachinPRCDP. Itdescribes the basic principles of the
participatory approach, details the main steps inthe participatory project cycle, elaborates institutional and
management issuesinusingthe approach, discusses its costs andbenefits, andprovides some resource
material on methods and tools. It i s illustratedwith case studies from the provinces, introducing good
practices onparticipation. Inaddition it proposes a quality assurancemethodology for assessinghow the
participatory approach is beingused.This includes a number o f indicators o f `quality o fparticipation' in
each o f the project cycle steps.

The manual takes the stance o fproviding guidance, rather than detailed instructions. Each of the PRCDP
provinces practices the participatory approach inslightly different ways, andthe manual allows for this
flexibility. However the indicators o f `quality o fparticipation' provide a set o f standards o f participation
which all the provinces must reach, regardless o f the variations to the participatory approach they adopt.

6.2. Approach to quality of onparticipation
The move towards a focus on quality o fparticipation is considered a very positive feature o f how the
provinces will address participation inPRCDP. It means there will be a shift o f focus away from `product'


                                                         - 97 -

(e.g. PRA tools) to `process' (Le. how well participationis done), and similarly, a shift away from focusing
on `inputs' (e.g. participatory methods) to `outcomes' (e.g. social inclusion through use o f participatory
approaches).

The emphasis on PRCDP to maintain quality inthe participation approach also results from the needto
comply with DFIDand WB requirements, especially with WB safeguardpolicies, on social inclusionand
empowerment. The quality criteria for participationhave been developed on several levels. Principles on
participation andindicators of participation quality have beenproposed inresponseto WBDFID
requirements, especially focusing on the inclusiono fpoor and marginal groups (poor households, poor
natural villages, women, ethnic minorities). The list o f indicators includes qualitative indicators to monitor
the quality o f the participationprocess (inclusive, transparent, pro-poor) throughout all phaseso f the
project. These principles andindicators are presentedinthe ParticipationManual for each o f the key
project cycle steps - see table below. Based on the indicators, the provinces will need to develop their
targets relating to coverage o fpoor households, poor natural villages, women andethnic minorities.

                           Principles                            Oualitv indicators (indicative)
             -Shows diversity o fpoverty             -Direct involvement o f poor households, poor and
             situations and poverty groups.          remote villages, women groups andethnic minorities
             -Describes dimensions o fpoverty        and the socially excluded andthe disadvantaged
             such as seasonalpoverty, poverty        Conclusions and results are cross-checked by
             over time, intra-household poverty      different methods andtools
             etc.                                    -Geographcal, professionaland social biases are
             -Indigenous poverty criteria and        avoided.
             grouping developedby the poor.          -etc.
             -Disaggregates information on poor
             natural villages.
              -Genderedpoverty.
             PP mustbe based on the outcomes o Proportiordnumber o f poor households actively
             'PA.                                    nvolved and participating indecision-making and
             Budget frame mustbe clear inthe         evealing their priorities/preferences relatedto the
             leginning.                              ilanningprocess.
             Consider/ protect needdinterests o f    Proportiodnumber o f poor natural villages representec
             ninority social groups.                 nthe planningprocess as potentialbeneficiaries, types
             Conflict settlement andmediation        Ifbenefitandthepotentialbenefitinterms ofhuman
             transparent mechanism inplace and )overty reduction.
             nownto people).                         Proportiodnumber o f women actively making
             Pro-poor decisionmaking.                lecisions/ inthe planningprocess andtheir scope for
             PP needs to involve technical           nfluencingdecision-making andaction interms o f
             lersonnelfor information, technical     :ender.
              alidation and feedback.                Different ethnic groups are represented inthe planning
             County feasibility/planning needsto recess andactively participating indecision-making
             mnkupwith PP.                           mdaction.
             Social and technical validation o f     Transparency o fplanning process and impartial
             lata and informationduring PP.          lecision-making andclarification o f mutual roles and
                                                     esponsibilities.
                                                     Social justice and faimess o f the results interms o f
                                                     :qui@and gender aspects.
                                                     Prioritiedpreferences androles o f poor and marginal



                                                      - 9a -

                                              social groups, are reflectedinproject activities.
Implement Administrative village needs to set -Proportion/number o f beneficaries from: poor
ation     ~pcoordination structure.           households; poor naturalvillages; women; different
          Project implementationgroup (PIG) ethnic groups directly participating and benefiting from
          ieeds to be basedwhere project is   the project.
          sub-village).                       -Proportion/number o f people from different target
          Coordinators  +PIG   to be chosenby groups directly involved inimplementation and
          illage plenary meeting.             maintenance.
          Project ImplementationGroup must -Degree o f their involvement and opportunities for
          be able to coordinate and solve the involvement.
          onflicts.                           -What decisions have they influenced? And inwhat
          Transparency throughout the         manner?
          rocesses (publicise project         -Project implementation group (PIG) set up and
          omponents andbudget).               hnctioning according to principles.
          Quality need to be ensuredby        -Mix o fproject activities likely to contribute to
          :chcians and community.             sustainabledevelopment and reduction o fhuman
          Projects selectedanddesigned        poverty.
          nimarily to benefitpoor natural     -Villagers capacities for self-help and initiatives
          illages (consider poorest           strengthenedby implementationof project activities.
          iouseholds).
 PM&E     -Indicators onproject                -Indicators for project implementationare developed
          implementationmust be developed      duringthe participatory planningprocessby project
          andmonitoredby communities.          beneficiaries and facilitataors.
          -Communities monitor project         -Different groups (women, poor households, ethnic
          process, outcomes, impacts.          groups) actively participate inPM&E (i.e. undertake
          -Documentation o f the process       monitoring themselves) at regular intervals.
                                               -Villagers feed back their views, experience and
                                               opinions on project implementationthrough PM&E -
                                               these are recorded by the project staff.
                                               -PIG maintains complete documentation on the
                                               implementationprocess.
                                               -Lessons are sharedandvillagers learn from PM&E
                                               mocess.




                                                - 99 -

B. Summary of PRCDP Social Assessment

                                      CCCC, Sun Yat-sen University
                                             Guangzhou, China
                                                 January, 2004

Background. Entrustedby the ForeignFundCenter under the Poverty-reliefOffice of the StateCouncil,
12experts from CCCC went to the 18project counties (6 ineach) inSichuan, Yunnan, Guangxi in3
groups from Nov 6 through Dec 11,2003 for the social assessmento f the "Chma Poor Rural Community
Development Project (PRCDP)". This assessment could be completed on schedule thanks to the direction
andassistance ofthe Poverty-reliefOffice, andthe inspiration from the training ofthe social development
consulting courses by the BritishDepartment for InternationalDevelopment (DFID), the great support and
cooperation offered by all levels o fproject offices inthe 3 provinces/regions, all levels o f leaders and
project managerial staff inthe investigated counties, Xiangs/towns andvillages, and farmers at points o f
investigation. Our sincere acknowledgement is givenhereby!

Section 1.      ObjectivesandMethodologyof Assessment
According to the task outline, the objectives o f this assessment are:

1. Definethe poorest andmost disadvantaged groups atpoor communities, and factors that preventthem
    fi-om benefiting from the project equally;
2. Determine poverty-relief existinginthe project areas andthe obstacle to the existent security of
    different social groups;

3. Identify the minorities inthe project areas so as to embody their national characteristics inthe project
    design;

4. Predict the project's possible positive and negative impacts on minority groups;
5. Identifythe poorest villages by reviewingthe project counties, as well as the existingmechanisms and
    experiences inidentifying, aiming and financing the poorest;

6. Identifythe impetusand obstacle to the fulfillment o f the sex equality inthe project communities,
    includingdifferentmeans to obtain assets andassets ownership, division o f labor by sex, role in
    child-bearing, control and decision-making processesinfamilies and communities;

7. Establishthe indicators of participationon the basis ofpoverty analysis to serve the assessment and
    supervision;
8. Review the practice (method, organization, effect), lessonsand experiences (utilize, popularize these
    usehl experiences to develop andexecute the mechanism andtools o f the village planning) o f the
    participationplanning;
9. Voluntary migration for the purpose o f environmentalprotection andpoverty reliefi s an important
    policy under the project, the execution o f which might bringmajor influences on the project areas.
    Predict and assess these influences.

10. This assessment makes a thorough assessment by holding working seminars with all levels o f project
    management officials and using methods and means o f participatory rural assessment (PRA) on the
    selected poor villages, such as in-depth interview, working seminar, collection o f secondhand
    literatures.




                                                     - 100 -

Section 2.        Procedure and Coverage of Assessment
The whole assessment was developed in2 stages:
Stage 1, initial investigation. During Oct 19-29,2003, CCCC assigned2 experts to Yunnan, Sichuan and
Guangxi for discussion with officials at the province-level, county-level project managementoffices,
collection o f data related to the project areas, decision o f the points o f investigationfor the formal
assessment throughjoint negotiation, the initial report was formed on this basis.

Stage 2, formal assessment.The SA Team has conducted the assessment on 4 levels:
Firstly,hold forms withofficials at the province-level andcounty-level project management offices, andthe
selectedXiangkown-level officials, to learn (1) the existing experiencesandlessons o f the project
management system inparticipating inpoverty-relief projects; (2) the present project preparation o f the
project areas; (3) all interestedparties to be covered by the project, especially women, minorities, the
elderly; (4) basic information ofthe project areas; and(5) county-level andXiang-level literatures and
statistical statements.
Secondly, hold forums with cadres o f selectedvillages to learn the village's basic mfonnation, local natural
resources, conditions and customs, composition andwork of the 2 village-level committees, draw the local
resource distribution map and community map.
Thirdly, holdvillager forums. Attendees should include the mainbeneficiaries of this project, especially
minorities, women, the poorest and the elderly. The topics o f discussion include: (1) project selection; (2)
evaluation o f the plannedproject; (3) sequencingof factors affecting the local development; (4) definition
ofpoor and rich families by villagers; (5) suggestions for improvingthe project effect and degree o f
participation; (6) evaluation o f cadres o f the two village-level committees; and(7) relationship between
nationalities and national traditional culture.
Fourthly, conduct door-to-door investigationon farmers. Ask farmers for their true ideas on the project and
how to improve the degree o fparticipation inthe project, existing actions anddifficulties, comments, ask
them to draw seasonal charts, do labor productivity sequencing andother investigation items specified by
PRA.

Section 3.        Selection of Points of Investigation

DuringOct 19-29,2003, CCCC assigned2 expertsto Yunnan, Sichuan, Guangxi to conduct the initial
investigationfor the social assessment o f PRCDP, who have collected a great deal o fbasic information on
the project counties, Xiangs and villages, and determinedthe points o finvestigationthrough discussion
with localproject officials.

Inthe selection ofthepoints ofinvestigation, acomprehensive considerationwas givento the geographic
location, resourcebasis, means o f livelihood(including work outside), nationality, development andpoverty
of project Xiangs/towns and villages. Under the social assessment plano f 2 project Xiangs per project
county and 1project village per Xang, the InvestigationTeam selected 36 villages under 36 Xiangs/towns
in 18 counties inthe 3 provinces/regions. InYunnanProvince, the Team went deep into 6 villages in3
counties for a trial investigationto better determine the points o f investigation. Inthe course of field
investigation, each SA Team replaced some villages selectedinthe initial investigationbased on the
investigation progress, problems found and restrictiono f objective conditions. Inthe investigationin
Ximeng County, the Yunnan Team added a point o f investigation as necessary.




                                                       - 101  -

                                                        Points o f investigation




          Cangyuan            Yongwu Village underDanjiaXiang, GongkanVillage underBanhongXiang
          Ximen               WangmoVillageunderMengsuoTown, ManhengVillage underYuesongXiang,
                              BannongVillage underWenggakeXiang
          Mennlian            Xingang Village underFuyanXiang, MangxinVillageunderMangxinXiang
               Y
Guangxi Huanjiang             Xiatang VillageunderXiananXiang, ZhenbeiVillageunderXunle MiaoXiang
          Luocheng            JinhuaVillageunder SibaXiang, KencaiVillageunderNawengXiang
          Rongshui            XiaosangVillageunderAntai Xiang, GaowenVillage underHongshuiXiang
          Rongan              SilangVillage under DaxiangXiang, SecondVillageunder QiaobanXiang
          Sanjiang            LipanVillage underDudongXiang, GaobaVillageunderTongleXiang
           Lonnshenn          ShijiaVillageunder LejiangXiang, PanneiVillageunder Sishui Xiang



Section 4.      Data Sources

The data collected inthis assessment includes:
1. Firsthandfieldwork materials, suchas interview data, forum data, community resource map andvideo
   data;
2. Background materials relatedto the project andreporting o f project preparation at all levels, such as
   provincelcounty-level project proposal, poverty-relief development plan;

3. Official statistical data, such as statistical yearbook o f all levels o f government, statistical data
   collectedby project offices;
4. Policy documents enactedby the government, such as localregulations of minority autonomous areas,
   preferentialstate policies towards minorities;
5. Local records and annals, such as "Annals o f HuanjiangCounty", "Annals o f MenglianCounty",
   "Annals o f Meigu County";
6. Existingpapers andmonographs, historical data and custom records on minorities inproject areas.
7. Inusingthe above data, the SA Team strictly follows 3 principles: (1) try to use the latest statistical
   data; (2) where village-level statistical figures are involved, try to use the firsthand data from the
   fieldwork to ensure its objectiveness andaccuracy; and (3) based on a summary o f views and opinions
   o f farmers, all levels of government, agncultural experts andproject companies, the analysis and
   discussion o f relevant issues shouldbe as comprehensive and objective as possible.



                                                      - 102 -

Section 5.         Report Format
This Social Assessment Report contains 3 parts:
The first is the introductionto the project's background, givinga brief introduction to the working
objectives, methodology, procedure, selection o fpoints o f selection, data sources o f the SA Team.

The second is summary, namely a summaryofthe contents of the sub-reports.

The thirdis the sub-reports of the 3 provinces/regions, which is the mainbody of the Social Assessment
Report. All the 3 reports are focused on the "poverty analysis", "village decision makingmechanism",
"minority" and "sex problem" as the concerns o f the task outline. On one hand, they have revealed the data
collectedinthe SA Team's fieldwork,        onthe other hand, they have also analyzed the problems thereinand
propose corresponding suggestions. Eachreport has separate sections for the "poverty analysis", "village
decision making mechanism" and "minority" o f the project areas, and the sex analysis runs through the
whole report.

Summary
The World Bank andDFIDfinanced "China Poor Rural Community Development Project" (PRCDP)
mainly supports remote minority areas inSichuan, Yunnan, Guangxi. This project will relieve the poverty
there through a "from the top down" participatory mode and plannedinvestment.

According to the task outline providedby the employer, the SA Team has heldforums with all levels of
project officials inSichuan, Yunnan, Guangxi andconducted fieldwork at 2 villages under 2 project
Xiangdtowns inevery project county. This Social Assessment Report formed on the basis o f wide
collection and analysis ofthe fieldwork data has made an analysis o f the social, economic, cultural,
institutional factors contributing to poverty o f farmers, especially minority farmers and the decision-making
process.
Since the poor communities inthe 3 provinces/regions differ significantly, so that the Social Assessment
Reports for the 3 provinces/regions couldhardly be written ina uniform format. However, all the 3 reports
have separate sections for the "poverty analysis", "village decision makingmechanism" and "minority" of
the project areas, andthe sex analysis runs through the whole report.

I. PovertyAnalysisofProjectAreas

Through investigation, the SA Team thinks the areas covered by this project are mostly poor, remote
minority areas, all the project counties are state or provincial poor counties andmanyproject villages are
key poverty-relief villages.
The SA Team's investigationshows the harshnatural conditions, deteriorating environment, backward
infrastructure, shortage o f social facilities, scanty natural sources, frequent natural disasters, low literacy,
unitary social capital, weak credit opportunities, unitaryagricultural industrial structure, weakness inface
o f risks, inability to express own demands and lack o f influence are boththe embodiment o f the present
poor situationof the project areas and also the common reasons for the poverty.
The SA Team's investigationshows, there is a significant correlationbetweenpoverty and
nationality-minorities'     degree o fpoverty is overall higher than the Hannationality, that o f minorities at
multinational centrally-inhabited areas is greatly higher than those at nationality cross/scattered-inhabited
areas, the degree o fpoverty varies fi-om minority to minority.
There is also a certain correlationbetweensex andpoverty: firstly, ruralwomen mostly deal with heavy


                                                       -103-

physical labor, such as housework, stockbreeding, field labor, which is especially true infamilies and areas
where menwork outside; secondly, women's positioningby some traditional national cultures makes
minority women relatively disadvantagedinopportunity, ability andcultural guarantee inparticipating in
the project, which i s very apparent among Yi women inSichuan; thirdly, the backward medical care and
service system inthe project areas, the influence of the medical care concept and the lower literacy of'
women turn them into the group the most vulnerable to poverty.

11.       Village Decision-making Mechanismof Project Areas

The village Party branch andvillagers' committee are set up at all the project villages. The village Party
branch secretary i s electedby the village Party branch meetingandconfirmed by the Xiang Party
Committee. The villagers' committee i s electedby villagers inaccordanceto the "Villagers' Committee
OrganizationLaw (Tentative) o f the PRC". The two village-level committees are significantly dependent on
the Xianghown government andthe Xiang Party Committee.

Informal village decision-makmg mechanism forces include: traditional social organizations andtheir
headmen, such as family branch o f the Yi nationality; religious professionals, such as Bimo, Moba;
economically able persons; doctors, teachers, ex-servicemen, retired cadres, past village cadres and other
village intellectuals.
The SA Team's investigationshows, as the formal village decision-making mechanism, the 2 village-level
committees take up absolute leadership inthe village decision-making process. Inareas where the function
o f traditional social organizations is still sound, such as Yi people inLiangshan,the formal village
decision-making mechanism combines with traditional social organizations, becoming the co-dominators o f
village decision-making. Itwas also found that villagers fairly believe inliterate persons, economically able
persons, teachers, ex-servicemen, retiredcadres, doctors and other village elitists, who well understand the
current existence situation o f the village, think a lot about the future way out o f the village, have a
considerable influence inthe village's public affairs and enjoy a highreputationinthe community.

It is found ininvestigationthat, village decisions inpoor communities are mostly dominated by a small
numberofvillage able persons, while ordinary villagers seempassive and negative inthe forwardness,
ability andopportunity inparticipating indecision-making. Women inthe village decision-making
mechanism are often usedto hidingthemselves and even have no chance to participate, their voice appears
weaker.

111.      Minorities of Project Areas

The SA Team's investigationinvolves all the minorities covered bythe project areas and anethnography
like census was made on the history, social organization, means o f livelihood, sex relationship and
traditional culture o f minorities at the investigated villages.

Manyproblems on "minority" are important factors that cause the poverty and difference indegree of
poverty inthe project areas. The correlationbetween minority andpoverty is mainly embodied inthe
traditional minority culture related to poverty, including means o f livelihood, sense o f commodity,
consumer habit, property concept, weddinglfuneral customs, sex concept and religious concept o f
minorities.
The traditional social organizations andreligions o f minorities are an important integral part of the
informal village decision-making mechanism. The sub-reports have made a detailed discussion on this.
The sex relationship o f minorities is mainly embodied indivisiono f labor, marital customs, child-bearing
concept, medical tradition, female education, female participationincommunity and family

                                                       - 104 -

decision-making.

IV.      Suggestions

Onthe basis o f the above 3 aspects incombinationwith the suggestionsfrom project officials andvillagers
on the project official, village cadre and villager forums, the 3 SA Teams have made suggestions based on
the localpractical conditions, which can be summarized into the following 7 aspects:

1. Suggestions on improvement ofproject effect: do well inthe project publicity; provide avariety of
     technical training andmarket guidance to farmers; set up a project managerial body with stable staff,
     do well inthe managementof the project files; establish a perfect subsequent managementmechanism
     for social public welfareprojects; establish a project anti-disaster fund, perfect the social security
    mechanism; increase the fund ratio for the sub-project o f rural infrastructure construction; consider the
    project management and training expenses rationally.

2. Suggestions on selection of project areas andproject farmers: the SA Team considers the poor areas
     withthe greatestneedof poverty reliefbe selectedas project areas; as to the selection ofproject
     farmers, the SA Team suggests such farmers as households enjoying the "five guarantees" and the
     disabled should be listedas objects o f civil administrationsupport other thanthose to be covered by
     poverty-relief project loan innature; support some potential, capable, open-minded poor farmers as
     examples, which will contribute to the project's success.

3.    Suggestions on "company     +farmer  family" pattern: Company    +farmer   family is a good form of
     agncultural integrated development at present but there is certain difficulty inpopularizing and
     pursuingthis patternextensively inpoor communities. The SA Teamsuggests, to employ this pattern,
     detailed rules shouldbe laid down to ensure the interests o f farmer families.

4. Suggestionson loan granting:Work out diversified forms of loan granting and modes ofloan
     repayment as the case may be; on the basis o f solving the existing problems with the present rural
     credit cooperative innegotiation with the credit cooperative, consider the possibility o f loan granting
     via the credit cooperative; be sure to endow the county-level project office with the power to supervise
     the loangranting.
 5. Suggestions on minorities inproject areas. The SA Team suggests organizing an expert group of
     anthropologists, sex experts andthe local nationality & religion administrationto formulate a
     "multinational development program" for the nationalities at the Yi-Hanand Yi-Miao-Han
     cross-inhabited areas, a separate "minority development program" (MDP) for the Yi people inthe Yi
     centrally-inhabitedareas in Sichuan; formulate a separate MDP for the Wa centrally-inhabited areas in
     Yunnan, an integrated MDP for the other scattered Lahu, Yi, Lisu, Hani, Bulang and Miao people in
     Yunnan. Considering the social and economic level o f the Daipeople inYunnan is high,the SA Team
     thinks it is unnecessary to formulate a special development program for them; a separate MDP shall be
     formulate for every minority except the Chuang nationality inGuangxi.

 6. Suggestionson women inproject areas: engage sex specialist, formulate development programs
     specially for minorities andwomen inthe "minority development program"; be concerned about women
     infamilies where menwork outside andwomen farm at home; enhancethe technical training for
     women; enhancethe participatory training for women; greatly develop the rural infrastructure and
     medicalhealth facilities construction; provide women with development funds and tailor feasible
     projects for them.
 7. Suggestions on village decision-makmg mechanism: Pay attention to the role o f cadres o f the
     Xiandtown government and2 village-level committees; give play to their advantages and avoid their


                                                     - 105-

disadvantages to have them serve the project basedon full understandingo f the traditional social
organization; absorb ex-servicemen, workers outside, teachers, doctors andother literate,
knowledgeable and informedpersons into village-level project management; for villages with great
intemal differences that can hardly be planned as a whole, develop the village-level planninginthe unit
o f commune.




                                              - 106 -

