                                    Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                  Report No: AB1142

Project Name                       CHINA - POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Region                             East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                             General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (45%); Roads and highways
                                   (20%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (15%); Primary
                                   education (10%); Health (10%)
Theme                              Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other
                                   rural development (P); Education for all (S); Other human development (S)
Project                            P071094
Borrower(s)                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency(ies)           NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND REFORM COMMISSION
                                   Address: 38 Yuetan Nanjie, Beijing, 100824, China
                                   Contact Person: Mr. Xinhuai Wang
                                   Tel: 86-10-         Fax: 86-10-         Email:

                                   Leading Group for Poverty Reduction's Foreign Capital Project Management
                                   Center PRCDP Liaison Goup, Guangxi Autonomous Region, Sichuan Province,
                                   and Yunnan Province
                                   Address:
                                   Contact Person: Mr. Ou Qingping
                                   Tel: 86-10-82617155            Fax: 86-10-82617165          Email:
                                   fcpmc@public2.bta.net.cn


Environment Category               B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                  October 4, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date                October 19, 2004
Bank Approval Date                 May 31, 2005

1. Country and Sector Background
Background

China is widely recognized for its achievements in reducing absolute poverty since the adoption of a broad
program of rural economic reforms beginning in 1978. The Chinese government has a strong commitment
to poverty reduction, and the scale and funding of its poverty reduction program, and the sustained
dramatic reduction of absolute poverty over the last twentyfive years of reform, are exemplary by any
standards.

While the decline in poverty has been striking, it appears to have been uneven over time, across locality,
and between social groups. Available evidence suggests that the reduction of poverty was greatest during
the early-1980s, but may have stalled during years 1989-94. In addition, the reduction of poverty was
greatest in the coastal provinces, and it is certain that the most severe rural poverty is now more
concentrated in the central and particularly the western provinces. Certain disadvantaged ethnic minority
groups, people with disabilities, and women are known to be heavily overrepresented among the poor.
Lastly, athough almost all of China's poor reside in rural areas, there is a growing concern about the
possible emergence of urban poverty.

                                                        2
                                                                                                             PID


Main Sector Issues

China's rural poor still comprise a large share of global poverty. The rural poor are heavily concentrated in
natural resource deficient mountainous areas of the central and western provinces where single sector
poverty reduction measures have had limited sustainable impact. Overcoming the remaining rural poverty
will require innovative approaches and continued strong support:

(a) Participatory approach and other innovations. Development work around the world has found that
giving stakeholders a voice in project design, management, and evaluation improves results. The
Government recognizes the importance of strengthening the participatory approach in poverty reduction
work, and several centers of excellence in participatory methods have emerged in recent years. Sichuan
and Yunnan, in particular, have distinguished records of applying participatory approaches to poverty
reduction work. Nevertheless, most of China's experiments with participation have been in poverty
reduction project identification and preparation, and there is a strong need to extend participation into the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation stages on a nationwide basis. Similarly, the Government has
identified the need to better include NGOs and civil society in poverty reduction work. NGOs and civil
society are playing an increasing role in poverty reduction work, and a variety of innovative approaches
(such as the cooperation program between the more developed coastal provinces and the poorer interior
provinces) have been adopted in recent years. Nevertheless, it is believed that NGOs and civil society can
play a significantly greater role in China's poverty reduction work than they do at present.

(b) Targeting. China's poverty reduction program and funding is targeted to 592 nationally-designated
poor counties. Government estimates indicate that the proportion of the rural poor residing in the
nationally designated poor counties has declined from 72% in 1994 to about 60% in 2000. This means that
about 40% of the rural poor reside outside the poor counties and receive very little or no central
government assistance. In addition, since central government assistance to the nationally designated poor
counties is not targeted to the absolute poor within those counties, there is a tremendous leakage of
available poverty reduction funding to the nonpoor within those counties. The effectiveness and efficiency
of available poverty reduction funding can be significantly improved through better targeting.

(c) Addressing the poverty of ethnic minorities and people with disabilities. Ethnic minority groups
and people with disabilities are known to represent a highly disproportionate share of the rural poor.
Ethnic minority groups make up less than 9 percent of the total population, but are believed to account for
about 40 percent of the remaining absolute poor, and often live in the deepest poverty. Minority
autonomous counties also account for more than 40 percent of the nationally-designated poor counties.
The poorest ethnic minority groups often reside in extremely remote townships and villages, and the
outreach of China's poverty reduction program to these isolated communities needs to be further
strengthened. Similarly, people with disabilities and households with disabled members represent a large
and rising share of the poor. It is believed that people with disabilities comprise about one third of the
remaining rural poor at present (that is, of China's 29 million rural absolute poor in 2003, some 9 million
were people with disabilities). In poor areas, there is a mutually reinforcing relationship between poverty
and disability: the inadequacy of effective public health measures and medical care in poor areas increases
the chances of suffering a disabling injury or illness, and people with disabilities (and their families) are
often pushed into extreme poverty by medical costs related to their injury or illness and by limited or no
employment opportunities other than farming.

(d) Improving access to basic education and health services. The educational, health and nutritional
status of the remaining absolute poor is deplorable. As many as half of the boys in many of China's
poorest villages and, particularly in the most remote ethnic minority areas, an even greater share of the girls

                                                       3
                                                                                                            PID


do not attend or complete elementary school and will not achieve literacy. Infant mortality rates and
maternal mortality rates in very poor counties exceed 10 percent and 0.3 percent respectively (or at least 50
percent to 100 percent greater than the national average), and are greater yet in the poorest townships and
villages. Incidence of several infectious and endemic diseases, including tuberculosis and iodine deficiency
disorders, is concentrated in poor and remote areas. Roughly half of children in households at or below the
absolute poverty line are at least mildly malnourished (stunted), and iron, vitamin A, and other
micronutrient deficiencies remain a severe problem among the poor.

(e) Improving productivity of mountain agriculture. The majority of China's remaining absolute poor
reside in mountainous areas with either low rainfall, limited arable land, or both. In many cases the farm
population greatly exceeds the limited carrying capacity of these uplands. In Yunnan, for example, the
provincial government selected 506 key townships as the core focus of its poverty reduction programs
beginning in 1995. Almost all of these poor townships are distributed in high mountain ranges and uplands,
and in minority and border areas. About 86 percent of Yunnan's remaining poor in 1996 reportedly resided
in these 506 poor townships. Achieving even subsistence levels of agricultural production in many of
mountainous areas is a difficult challenge. Existing single-sector strategies for mountainous area
development have tended to underestimate the integrated nature of the problems and challenges, and have
not led to adequate and sustainable improvements in the well-being of the poor in these areas. Instead,
there remains a need to better integrate individual sector strategies into a more comprehensive multisectoral
approach to promote economic development and sustainable poverty reduction in mountain areas.
Investment priorities within agriculture include strengthening agricultural training and technical support
services, and providing greater support for expanding animal husbandry, land improvement, food crop
production, tree and cash crops, and watershed management.

(f) Further strengthening basic infrastructure. China's poverty reduction program has emphasized the
establishment and construction of a wide variety of basic rural infrastructure including water resource
works, arable land, transport, power and communications. Between 1984 and 2000, for example, nearly
100 million mu (or 6.7 million ha) of basic farmland were improved or established in the poor areas, and
drinking water systems were established for more than 77 million people and 84 million head of large
animals. However, at present about 8% of poor area administrative villages are still not accessible by road,
more than 25% of poor area adminstrative villages are not accessible by telephone, and there are about 21
million people in the nationally-designated key poor villages with difficult or inadequate local supplies of
drinking water. Although great strides have been achieved, further improvements in basic infrastructure in
China's poorest areas remains an effective and rapid means of improving people's lives and reducing
poverty.

The Government's Strategy

Overcoming rural poverty remains one of the Government's top priorities, and is considered to be a very
challenging task which will require many years of struggle and continued financial support. The National
Poverty Reduction Conference held in May, 2001 approved the Government's curret strategy, "China:
Rural Poverty Alleviation and Development Program: 2001-2010." The new Program updates the
principles and strategies of the previous poverty reduction program and introduces a number of new
initiatives including:

(a) Participatory approach and the role of NGOs and civil society. The new Program calls for
strengthening the participatory approach in poverty reduction work and for expanding the role of NGOs
and civil society. The Government regards "the poor as the main body conducting and benefiting from the
poverty alleviation and development striving," and has taken concrete steps to support empowerment at the

                                                        4
                                                                                                           PID


village level. Most importantly, a simplified participatory approach has been adopted in formulating
village poverty reduction plans, and nationwide all of the more than 140,000 key poor villages have now
established such plans on the basis of the participatory approach. In addition, with the support of the
central and local governments, national social organizations, NGOs, and private enterprise are becoming
increasingly active in poverty reduction work. Specific programs include the Glorious Cause, Spring Bud
Plan, Project Hope, the New Great Wall Plan, and a host of local initiatives supported by small scale
NGOs and individuals. These programs and initiatives directly assist in poverty reduction work, and also
increase awareness among the general population of the need for continued poverty reduction work.

(b) Targeting. In order to strengthen efficiency and outreach to the poorest villages and to reduce leakage
to the nonpoor, the new Program has adopted an improved targeting system. A nationwide list of 148,000
key poor villages has now been established, and these key poor villages are now the core focus of the
central and local governments' poverty reduction programs. It is believed that 83% of the remaining rural
poor reside in these 148,000 poor villages. Provincial and local governments are required to take a lead
role in assisting those key poor villages which are located outside of the nationally-designated poor
counties.

(c) Assistance for ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities, and women. China's poverty
reduction program gives special emphasis to assisting poor ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities,
and women. For example, the five autonomous regions and three provines with large numbers of ethnic
minority people have received a large and preferential share (about 40%) of total poverty reduction
program funding. Similarly, special programs and earmarked funding assist poor people with disabilities
and women, and the new Program explicitly calls for continued assistance for these special groups.
Nevertheless, it is certain that ethnic minority groups, people with disabilities, and women are both heavily
overrepresented among the poor and comprise the poorest of the poor. Outreach to the most remote and
disadvantaged ethnic minority people must be strengthened. Existing programs to assist people with
disabilities focus primarily on farming and animal husbandry activities, and inadequate attention has been
given to a quantitative understanding of the causes of disability, to preventive measures, and to
rehabilitation measures and programs.

(d) Basic education and health. Educational progress in China has been impressive, and the compulsory
education system and increased funding for basic education has led to significant improvements in
educational attainment throughout rural China. The new Program specifically calls for "implementing
nine-year compulsory education in the poverty-stricken areas" by 2010. Nevertheless, these nationwide
plans mask notable imbalances in the availability of educational services between the economically
advanced and underdeveloped areas. There is a continuing need to ensure that there are adequate resources
for the weakest parts of the education system, especially in the poor rural areas, in order to provide
increased access to high-quality eduction to all. Similarly, the new Program calls for hospitals in most
poor townships and clinics in most poor villages in order to control the main diseases in these areas, and the
Government's Tenth Five Year Plan calls for improved sanitation and basic health care for all by 2010.
However, while some progress has been made and some interesting experiments with improving access to
basic health care services in poor townships have been piloted in recent years, there has been only minimal
and sporadic improvement in access to basic health care in the poorest parts of China.

(e) Mountain agriculture. Cropping and livestock production, which can be efficient and reliable ways of
increasing income levels of the poor and improving basic production and living conditions, remain as
priority activities to be supported by the new poverty reduction program. In addition, the new Program
calls for increased training, improved extension of practical technologies and better marketing services, and
strengthening of the participatory process to better ensure that the poor farmers themselves are empowered

                                                       5
                                                                                                            PID


to determine what agricultural activities they invest in.

(f) Rural infrastructure. A core focus of China's poverty reduction program is assisting the poor through
development activities which improve productivity. Investment in water conservancy, transport, power,
communications, and other basic rural infrastructure is explicitly noted as a priority area. While
investment in rural infrastructure has proven to be an extremely effective means of poverty reduction, it is
important that (a) the level of such investment be lowered so that it can reach the poorest and most remote
villages, (b) the poor are empowered to determine what infrastructure is most needed, and (c) infrastructure
activities with little or no poverty reduction impact be excluded.

(g) Local capacity building. The new Program also highlights the need to strengthen capacity at the local
level. Specific measures include effective training programs for local staff, and the rotation of higher level
staff to remote poor townships and villages for fixed periods.

2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to improve livelihoods security and achieve sustained
participation of the poorest rural people in eighteen counties of the three project provinces.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The major value added from the Bank and DFID's support has been to (a) keep the project closely targeted
to assisting the poorest villages and households and the most remote and disadvantaged ethnic minority
groups, (b) help design a multisectoral package of assistance activities which more closely reflects the
expressed needs of the intended beneficiaries, and (c) upgrade the participatory process and establish a
mechanism to ensure that the participatory process will extend through the full life of the project. Bank
and DFID support also played the key role in the inclusion of the People with Disabilities Assistance Pilot
and the Community Capacity Building components.


4. Description
Component I: Sustainable Mountain Agriculture. The component will support agricultural development
in each of the 1,063 project villages. Most of these villages comprise communities living in remote
mountainous environments. The design and implementation of the component is based on the two
principles of targeting and reaching all poor households, and environmental sustainability. The component
includes the following activities:

        Improving household agricultural productivity and diversity. Households will receive project
support to improve, diversify and develop their productive activities. Activities will be determined by the
communities and households themselves through the project's participatory process. It is expected that
many households will choose to participate in animal husbandry activities. Other selections are likely to
include improvement of food security, cash crops and tree crops.

        Developing farmer-to-farmer services. Self-selected community members will receive project
support to develop microenterprises. The microenterprises will provide essential services to other
community members, mostly in veterinary services, micro-scale processing, transportation and marketing.

        Agricultural training and technical support services. Diverse operators including public extension
services, private enterprises, training centers and NGOs will apply to join a program of information,
training and small demonstrations. Agricultural technology disseminated by these operators will be
appropriate technology adapted to local environments, to the small scale of household operations, and to

                                                       6
                                                                                                             PID


indigenous cultures.

The expected outcome and impact of the component will be strengthened through the close interlinkage with
investments into rural water resource and land development (see Component II "rural infrastructure"
below) and the community capacity building component (see Component V below). Together, these
components are designed to create a marked increase in households' productive assets and labor
productivity, while permitting the pursuit of sustainable upland agriculture, and improving market access.

Component II: Basic Rural Infrastructure. Lack of basic infrastructure affects all project areas,
compounding the harsh living conditions, the lack of livelihood opportunities and poor access to social
services in these remote areas. This component includes:

        improvement in village access through construction and improvement of roads, tracks and paths;
        provision of potable water supplies for humans and livestock;
        construction of small water conservancy works with associated land improvements;
        extension of rural electrification and communications networks;
        household energy and sanitation improvements.

Given the scale of need and the relative costs of infrastructure in these remote project areas, infrastructure
subcomponents will be limited to small-scale works that directly benefit the project communities who will
be involved in their prioritisation, construction and maintenance through a rigorous community
participation process. Designs will be adapted to suit the varied geology, resource availability and local
preferences. Agreement on the operation and maintenance responsibilities will form part of the
subcomponent approval process. Local labour will be engaged and paid to construct public works where
possible providing additional sources of income for the communities. Household based improvements
(such as bio-gas and sanitation systems) will be available in the form of household loans.

Infrastructure works will be carefully phased and integrated with other project components to maximise the
benefits of the multisectoral approach. For example, access improvements will be undertaken early such
that they can complement subsequent project inputs, and water and sanitation facilities will be integrated
into school and health facilities to strengthen hygiene promotion. The capacity building component will
support the participatory approach and community implementation of the small-scale infrastructure works
which can serve as a useful entry point and incentive for training and community development initiatives.

Component III: Basic Education. Despite notable achievements at the national level, primary schooling in
the proposed project areas is still marked by poor attendance and very low on-time graduation rates, and
adult education has been not active and of limited relevance to local community development. There is a
clear strong demand for basic education services, including adult functional literacy education. The
component would address the challenges of (a) limited access to primary education by poorer and more
vulnerable children, particularly girls and disabled children, (b) ineffective adult training and education for
rural community development, (c) inadequate skills and capabilities of many teachers for both schooling
and adult education, (d) high burden of education expenses on poor families, and (e) poor infrastructure,
much of which is in need of rebuilding or repair. To respond to these challenges the basic education
component will include the following activities:

1. piloting a free compulsory education program in selected project villages in order to reduce the cost
    burden for basic education for poor families [funding for this pilot has not yet been confirmed];
2. integrating the development of the schools and communities with the transformation of the village

                                                       7
                                                                                                             PID


    schools to be community learning centers;
3. training primary school teachers with innovative teaching methodologies and improve their ability to
    provide effective and relevant training and education to community members; and,
4. providing training services to the adults in the project villages with a focus on functional literacy
    education and also the practical technical skills.

Component IV: Basic Health. As an integral part of a poverty reduction project, the health component
will aim to improve the health status of the population in the project area through improved access to basic
health care. Specific objectives include the reduction of maternal mortality, infant mortality, and the
incidence of some key preventable infectious diseases. The activities to be supported through the
component are:

1. financial assistance for medical care for the poorest to ensure that they can utilize basic health services.
    A minimum benefit package will include free maternal care and immunization, and support for
    inpatient care expenses;
2. essential public health interventions including maternal and child health care, immunizations for all
    children, children's nutrition and control of parasitosis, and health education for communities on basic
    health knowledge and HIV/AIDS;
3. improvement of basic health service capacities at the township and village levels through training for
    health workers, building village clinics and rehabilitating township health facilities, provision of basic
    equipment and essential drugs, and adoption of clinical protocols, an essential drug list, and a mutual
    referral system.

Component V: Community Capacity Building. The component objective is to promote project
implementation effectiveness and sustainability through strengthening the grass roots capacity in managing
community development activities. The design principles for the component are: (a) activities under the
component should be driven by beneficiaries' demands, (b) most activities should be broad enough to cover
the whole community instead of narrowly targeting at some specific focus group, and (c) civil works should
be kept to a minimum level. Based on these principles, the component includes the following four types of
activities:

1. activities to improve basic production and living skills of the poor farm households, including applied
    technology training, vocational training, literacy education, and basic health knowledge extension;
2. activities to strengthen community leaders' basic skills, including skills on local administrative
    management, basic financial management, development of village-level planning, local dispute
    resolution, and small-scale infrastructure construction;
3. activities to address the demands of some specific disadvantageous groups, particularly in ethnic
    minority areas, and including special training for women;
4. activities to promote and strengthen community participation in the decision-making process of local
    public development affairs, including training in participatory approach methodologies and the
    stablishment of farmer participatory monitoring groups.

Component VI: Project Management and Monitoring. PRCDP is a complex multisectoral project with
several highly innovative aspects including the improved participatory approach, outreach to extremely
remote and disadvantaged ethnic minority groups, assistance for people with disabilities, and the free
education pilot. Past experience (see Section XXX below) clearly shows that successful preparation,
implementation, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of such projects requires (a) strong support from all
levels of government, (b) an extremely capable Project Management Office (PMO) system at all levels, and
(c) a powerful and timely monitoring and evaluation and MIS system. In order to meet the extraordinary

                                                         8
                                                                                                           PID


demands of this complex and innovative project, PRCDP includes an explicit component to support project
management and M&E. The project management system (described in Section C.4 below) builds upon the
highly successful model (and the existing PMOs) of the previous Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction projects. The M&E system, which also builds on the successful experience of these previous
projects, will comprise both an "internal" physical monitoring and information system, and an independent
impact assessment system. The independent impact assessment system will in turn include both a
quantitative program, based on annual surverys of 1800 project and nonproject households, and a
qualitative program which will be driven by the expressed views of the primary beneficiaries.

Component VII: People with Disabilities Assistance Pilot. People with disabilities (PwD) in many cases
comprise the poorest of the poor in China. Particularly in remote rural villages, their overall well-being is
often at very low levels. PRCDP would include a special component in Yuexi County in Sichuan to assist
PwD in these most difficult and challenging circumstances. Grant funding of at least US$1 million is being
sought to support this innovative pilot component. The PRCDP PwD Assistance Component would focus
on four areas:

1. data collection and analysis: understanding more about disability as a cause of poverty, the incidence
    and experience of disability-related poverty and poverty-disability linkages;
2. interventions which focus on prevention; such as nutrition, health promotion activities, mainstreaming
    disability into infrastructure and livelihoods activities;
3. improved access to good quality medical services, such as, community rehabilitation;
4. empowerment/livelihoods pilots targeted to people with disabilities.

It has also been agreed that the project would adopt and promote participatory approaches for people with
disabilities. The pilot would be expanded within Yuexi County if additional funding is arranged (at
present, there is no confirmed funding for the PwD Assistance Component).

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($43.30)
IBRD ($102.60)
Total Project Cost: $145.90

6. Implementation


World Bank/DFID Partnership. DFID and the World Bank worked in partnership with the Government
to prepare the proposed project. DIFD played a very active role during project development, and is
expected to play an equally active role during project implementation. This project design continues the
pioneering effort to combine grant funds with an IBRD loan to soften lending terms for high priority social
sector projects with the overarching objective of poverty alleviation. In doing so, it expands the
availability of concessional financing for development to provinces for key social sector investments.
Following the path of the recently negotiated Bank-DFID supported CHINA:Tuberculosis Control
Project and CHINA: Basic Education in Western Areas Project, the United Kingdom's Department For
International Development (DFID) has agreed to provide the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC) a grant of
US$35.7 million to be blended with an IBRD loan of US$102.2 million to significantly reduce the effective
interest rate to China. The DFID grant will be used to prepay 35.7 percent of IBRD disbursements in
order to reduce the effective interest rate on the total Bank loan to no more than 2 percent per annum over
the 20 year loan period. MOF will pass the proceeds of the loan to the project provinces at the guaranteed

                                                        9
                                                                                                           PID


interest rate of 2 percent per annum.

Central Level. At the central level, the National Development and Reform Commission will take
responsibility for coordinating the various government agencies involved in project implementation. In
addition, a Project Liaison Group has been established within the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction's
Foreign Capital Project Management Center (FCPMC). The Liaison Group played a vital role during
project preparation in (a) coordinating all communications between DFID, the World Bank, the Central
Government agencies involved in preparation, and the provincial PMOs, (b) managing the participation and
outputs of a number of national and international experts, and (c) ensuring that all of the many preparation
activities were completed on a timely basis. The Liaison Group will continue to undertake this vital
coordination role throughout the life of the project.

Provincial and Prefectural Levels. At the provincial level, Project Leading Groups (PLG) have been
established to (a) mobilize the institutional, technical and financial resources and support for the
preparation and implementation of the project, and (b) provide the critical coordination and monitoring
function for project implementation. The PLGs include staff of the provincial Planning Commissions,
Finance Bureaus, Poverty Alleviation and Development Offices, and other related agencies (such as the
Irrigation, Agriculture, Transport, Education, Health, and Environmental Protection Departments and the
Statistical Bureaus). In addition, the existing provincial Project Management Offices (PMOs) have
ensured effective and timely preparation of the project. The Yunnan and Guangxi PMOs were established
under the China: Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (SWPRP) and the Sichuan PMO was established
under the ongoing World Bank supported China: Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Project (QBPRP)
. These three provincial PMOs already have a great deal of proven capability and experience with project
design, implementation, and M&E. The complexity and innovativeness of the proposed project requires
that the capacity of the provincial PMOs be further strengthened through the institution building component
of the project. Provincial level Technical Advisory Groups have also been established to provide technical
support for project implementation. Prefectural PMOs have also been established to coordinate work
within the project prefectures and to monitor and assist with project fund withdrawal and reimbursement.


County and Lower Levels. PLGs and PMOs have also been set up at the county level. The several
county-level technical bureaus directly involved in the project would, in close cooperation with the
participating township governments and their offices at the administrative village level, play a key role in
the day-to-day implementation of the project. Together, the county level PLGs, PMOs and technical
bureaus have played a key role in project design and preparation, and will play the most important role in
project implementation and M&E. Successful implementation depends most critically on the capabilities of
the county PMOs. Since most of the county PMOs have not previously been involved in such large scale,
complex, and innovative projects, the project's institution building component will focus on strengthening
capacity at this key level of the PMO system.

SWPRP and QBPRP have demonstrated that the extension and capability of the PMO system to the
township and village level is absolutely crucial to effective project implementation and outreach to the
poorest natural villages and households. Building on this experience, the proposed project will establish
Township Project Work Stations (TPWS) and Village Project Execution Groups (VPEG) at the township
and village levels. The TPWS and VPEG will be responsible for the day-to-day execution of the project in
their corresponding areas. In addition to members of the village committee and the All China Women's
Federation (ACWF), VPEGs would also include at least one household representative. The project would
provide the TPWS and VPEG with a yearly budget to allow project staff to carry out frequent follow-up
activities for individual village development plans. The project's institution building component will also

                                                        10
                                                                                                              PID


help strengthen planning and implementation capacity at the township and village levels.

People with Disabilities Assistance Component. The Sichuan Provincial PMO and the Yuexi County
PMO will take lead responsibility for the design, implementation, and monitoring of the PwD Assistance
Component. A small multidisciplinary task team comprising staff of the Sichuan Disabled Persons'
Federation, Handicap International, DFID, and the World Bank are working with the Sichuan and Yuexi
PMOs to develop a full proposal for the PwD Assistance Component.

7. Sustainability
The experience of the Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction Projects indicates that overall
project sustainability is highly likely. Most importantly, experience has shown that the higher level of
ownership of the planning and implementation process by the villages and villagers, and the degree to
which the infrastructure provided becomes broadly owned, provides a sound basis for subsequent effective
operation and maintenance. The project's primary beneficiaries will have been directly responsible for
planting trees, improving crop production, expanding animal husbandry, and all other activities on their
own farms. These farm households directly receive the benefits from these improvements, and are vitally
interested in sustaining the improvements and increased benefits derived from these activities. In some
cases, sustainability of individual activities has been undermined by unusual weather (such as a deep winter
freeze sufficient to kill trees), animal diseases, or market collapse for niche crops. However, the wide
diversity of the project's agricultural activities and the technical overview provided by local bureau staff
mean that such events are rare and limited in scale, and therefore do not threaten overall project
sustainability.

Operation and maintenance of project community works and services, including schools and primary
education, health clinics and public health care services, rural roads, drinking water and small-scale
irrigation systems, do require a community-level commitment. Past experience shows that project villages
directly benefit from these works and services and are therefore highly committed to their maintenance
during and beyond the project implementation period. County and township governments also have a
demonstrated capability of assisting villages with the operation and maintenance of these community works
and services.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Successful implementation of SWPRP and QBPRP (which are similar multisectoral poverty reduction
projects) provides important lessons for the design and implementation of the proposed project:

(a) SWPRP and QBPRP's highly effective organizational and management structure was able to satisfy the
demands of these highly complex and innovative projects. The extraordinarily strong support of the central
government played a vital role in project preparation, implementation and M&E.

(b) Community participation is essential to the success of the project, and the vigor of the participatory
approach must extend throughout the life of the project including implementation and M&E.

(c) Institution and capacity building at the local level (that is, the township and village levels) are key to
outreach to the poorest and most remote villages and to sustainability of the project activities.

(d) Good synergy was achieved by bringing in a great variety of poverty reduction activities down to the
township and village level. In particular, early provision of support for basic education and health extended
the outreach of the project to the poorest villages and greatly encouraged those villagers to participate in all
other aspects of the project. There was a real organizational and management cost to providing such a

                                                       11
                                                                                                             PID


wide range of benefits to the poor, but the PMO system rose to this challenge and found that the benefits
and synergy from a multisectoral approach outweighed these costs.

(e) SWPRP and QBPRP illustrated that the effectiveness and efficiency of rural poverty reduction activities
can be greatly enhanced through more support, supervision and management by the central and provincial
levels of government. The active involvement of higher levels of government in the allocation and utilization
of poverty reduction funding can greatly enhance its effectiveness, and a certain portion of poverty
reduction program funding should be allocated to independent and rigorous supervision and monitoring of
the use of those funds.

(f) There is a need for simplifying and introducing greater flexibility in the Bank's procurement procedures
in view of the seasonal and scattered nature of most project activities.

These lessons from SWPRP and QBPRP are all closely reflected in the proposed project's design. First,
the provincial and lower level PMO system builds upon that established in the earlier projects, and an
explicit institution building component will further strengthen the PMO system at the provincial and lower
levels. Although central government support for the project has been minimal, it is believed that the three
provincial PMOs have now accumulated more than sufficient experience and capability to largely
overcome that lack of support from the center. Second, the project greatly advances the participatory
approach pioneered through SWPRP and QBPRP. In particular, concrete plans have been established to
sustain a more robust participatory process throughout the full project cycle. Third, the institution building
component will strengthen capacity at the county, township and lower levels. Fourth, the project plans call
for early implementatioin of basic education, health, and rural infrastructure activities in the poorest and
most remote villages. This will serve to better include the most remote and most disadvantaged ethnic
minority communities right from the outset of project implementation. Fifth, an improved M&E, MIS and
supervision system has been established. Lastly, the project's procurement arrangements are simpler and
far more flexible than those of SWPRP and QBPRP.

9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues     : The overall objective and tentative design of the proposed project suggest that the net
environmental impact of the project will be positive, and that negative environmental effects will not be
significant, sensitive, irreversible or long-term. The project's focus on poverty reduction and improving the
livelihoods of the poorest through a decentralized participatory approach is likely to have the largest
cumulative impact on the environment given the demonstrated causal connection between poverty and
environmental degradation. The project will bring specific environmental benefits through improved soil
and water management, increase of permanent vegetation cover, training and promotion of improved
agricultural and livestock raising practices and capacity building of government staff, contractors and
farmers in environmental issues and better practices.

There are no known cultural properties in the location of the projects, however there are a number of
natural habitats in project townships comprising nature reserves of different types (wildlife, forest
ecosystems, natural resources, scientific research) and of different levels (national, provincial and county).
No project activities shall take place in the nature reserves, and any activities located nearby as well as any
road rehabilitation that might improve access to these habitats will be closely examined to determine if
potential for negative impact on the nature reserves exists. During Project Appraisal, improved mapping
and detailed discussions will be held to ensure that the project will not have a direct impact on natural
habitats and that monitoring measures are in place.

The most substantial potential negative environmental effects of the proposed project are: natural habitat

                                                        12
                                                                                                           PID


and forest degradation from improved road access; grazing exceeding the land's carrying capacity and
causing soil erosion; loss of biodiversity and native species; organic and non-organic solid and liquid waste
disposal; quarrying of stone and road construction damaging natural landscapes and causing land slips and
undisposed spoil; and higher use of fertilizer, plastic sheeting, pesticides and herbicides with consequent
accumulation in soil, water and people. The cumulative effect of these possible impacts is not significant
although local problems can be expected to occur. It is anticipated that the overall improvement in the
conditions of the populace will outweigh the negative impacts in these locations and serve to reduce other
more negative impacts that would occur should no project take place. Management, mitigation and
monitoring measures have been proposed to negate or reduce these impacts within the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP).

10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Alan L. Piazza
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: (202) 458-4067
      Fax: (202) 477-2733

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:     (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

