                             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                  Report No: AC1072
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/07/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CHINA                                                 Project ID: P071094
Project: POOR RURAL COMMUNITIES                                Task Team Leader: Alan L. Piazza
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 19, 2004                  IBRD Amount ($m): 102.60
Bank Approval: May 31, 2005                                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASRD                                           Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)             (45%); Roads and highways (20%); General water,
Status: Lending                                                sanitation and flood protection sector (15%); Primary
                                                               education (10%); Health (10%)
                                                               Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural
                                                               services and infrastructure (P); Other rural
                                                               development (P); Education for all (S); Other human
                                                               development (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The development objective of the project is to improve livelihoods security and achieve sustained
participation of the poorest rural people in selected counties of the four target provinces.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
A. Participatory Approach

China's ongoing poverty reduction program could be further improved through greater participation of poor
communities and disadvantaged groups. The project's approach is therefore poor people-centered, where
the focus is on mountainous areas, minorities and other disadvantaged groups. Special attention is given to
including particularly poor natural villages and marginalised groups (including the poorest households,
women, ethnic minorities, and the disabled). It is a basic premise of PRCDP that the nature and causes of
poverty differ from place to place, between individuals and groups, between genders, and between ethnic
minorities. It is not possible to effectively address poverty by applying a single solution in all locations. The
different needs of different poverty groups must be recognized and respected ­ the project should be
tailored to address different specific needs at the lowest possible level (that is, including poor groups within
natural villages).

The project builds on participatory analysis of poverty and vulnerability, and employs participatory
planning at the village level. Participatory techniques are employed throughout the project cycle to ensure
that activities are driven by poor peoples' priorities and that these are reflected in annual planning
processes and that access to funds is demand-driven. The participation process is systematically monitored
both by the communities themselves and the project management (as part of the wider M&E) to ensure that
poor and marginalised groups are included.

The participatory poverty assessment developed as the first stage of participatory planning is being used to
identify the poorest and most excluded households and social groups within poor villages. Implementation
of PRCDP will be based on Participatory Plans which are unique to the place and the people that created

                                                       2
                                                                                                           ISDS


them. All targeted villages in PRCDP need to produce their own Participatory Plans and all villages need to
be engaged in a participatory manner beyond the planning process, which means that communities must be
able to fully participate in all aspects of the project cycle (needs assessment, planning, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation).

B. Project Components:

Component I: Sustainable Mountain Agriculture. The component will support agricultural development
in each of the 1,063 project villages. Most of these villages comprise communities living in remote
mountainous environments. The design and implementation of the component is based on the two
principles of targeting and reaching all poor households, and environmental sustainability. The component
includes the following activities:

·       Improving household agricultural productivity and diversity. Households will receive project
support to improve, diversify and develop their productive activities. Activities will be determined by the
communities and households themselves through the project's participatory process. It is expected that
many households will choose to participate in animal husbandry activities. Other selections are likely to
include improvement of food security, cash crops and tree crops.

·       Developing farmer-to-farmer services. Self-selected community members will receive project
support to develop microenterprises. The microenterprises will provide essential services to other
community members, mostly in veterinary services, micro-scale processing, transportation and marketing.

·       Agricultural training and technical support services. Diverse operators including public extension
services, private enterprises, training centers and NGOs will apply to join a program of information,
training and small demonstrations. Agricultural technology disseminated by these operators will be
appropriate technology adapted to local environments, to the small scale of household operations, and to
indigenous cultures.

Component II: Basic Rural Infrastructure. Lack of basic infrastructure affects all project areas,
compounding the harsh living conditions, the lack of livelihood opportunities and poor access to social
services in these remote areas. This component includes:

·       improvement in village access through construction and improvement of roads, tracks and paths;
·       provision of potable water supplies for humans and livestock;
·       construction of small water conservancy works with associated land improvements;
·       extension of rural electrification and communications networks;
·       household energy and sanitation improvements.

Given the scale of need and the relative costs of infrastructure in these remote project areas, infrastructure
subcomponents will be limited to small-scale works that directly benefit the project communities who will
be involved in their prioritization, construction and maintenance through a rigorous community
participation process. Designs will be adapted to suit the varied geology, resource availability and local
preferences. Agreement on the operation and maintenance responsibilities will form part of the
subcomponent approval process. Local labor will be engaged and paid to construct public works where
possible providing additional sources of income for the communities. Infrastructure works will be carefully
phased and integrated with other project components to maximize the benefits of the multisectoral
approach. For example, access improvements will be undertaken early such that they can complement

                                                       3
                                                                                                           ISDS


subsequent project inputs, and water and sanitation facilities will be integrated into school and health
facilities to strengthen hygiene promotion. The capacity building component will support the participatory
approach and community implementation of the small-scale infrastructure works which can serve as a
useful entry point and incentive for training and community development initiatives.

Component III: Basic Education. Despite notable achievements at the national level, primary schooling in
the proposed project areas is still marked by poor attendance and very low on-time graduation rates, and
adult education has been not active and of limited relevance to local community development. There is a
clear strong demand for basic education services, including adult functional literacy education. The
component would address the challenges of (a) limited access to primary education by poorer and more
vulnerable children, particularly girls and disabled children, (b) ineffective adult training and education for
rural community development, (c) inadequate skills and capabilities of many teachers for both schooling
and adult education, (d) high burden of education expenses on poor families, and (e) poor infrastructure,
much of which is in need of rebuilding or repair. To respond to these challenges the basic education
component will include the following activities:

1. piloting a free compulsory education program in selected project villages in order to reduce the cost
    burden for basic education for poor families;
2. integrating the development of the schools and communities with the transformation of the village
    schools to be community learning centers;
3. training primary school teachers with innovative teaching methodologies and improve their ability to
    provide effective and relevant training and education to community members; and,
4. providing training services to the adults in the project villages with a focus on functional literacy
    education and also the practical technical skills.

Component IV: Basic Health. As an integral part of a poverty reduction project, the health component
will aim to improve the health status of the population in the project area through improved access to basic
health care. Specific objectives include the reduction of maternal mortality, infant mortality, and the
incidence of some key preventable infectious diseases. The activities to be supported through the
component are:

1. financial assistance for medical care for the poorest to ensure that they can utilize basic health services.
    A minimum benefit package will include free maternal care and immunization, and support for
    inpatient care expenses;
2. essential public health interventions including maternal and child health care, immunizations for all
    children, children's nutrition and control of parasitosis, and health education for communities on basic
    health knowledge and HIV/AIDS;
3. improvement of basic health service capacities at the township and village levels through training for
    health workers, building village clinics and rehabilitating township health facilities, provision of basic
    equipment and essential drugs, and adoption of clinical protocols, an essential drug list, and a mutual
    referral system.

Component V: Community Capacity Building. The component objective is to promote project
implementation effectiveness and sustainability through strengthening the grass roots capacity in managing
community development activities. The design principles for the component are: (a) activities under the
component should be driven by beneficiaries' demands, (b) most activities should be broad enough to cover
the whole community instead of narrowly targeting at some specific focus group, and (c) civil works should
be kept to a minimum level. Based on these principles, the component includes the following four types of

                                                        4
                                                                                                          ISDS


activities:

1. activities to improve basic production and living skills of the poor farm households, including applied
     technology training, vocational training, literacy education, and basic health knowledge extension;
2. activities to strengthen community leaders' basic skills, including skills on local administrative
     management, basic financial management, development of village-level planning, local dispute
     resolution, and small-scale infrastructure construction;
3. activities to address the demands of some specific disadvantageous groups, particularly in ethnic
     minority areas, and including special training for women;
4. activities to promote and strengthen community participation in the decision-making process of local
     public development affairs, including training in participatory approach methodologies and the
     establishment of farmer participatory monitoring groups.

Component VI: Project Management and Monitoring. PRCDP is a complex multisectoral project with
several highly innovative aspects including the improved participatory approach, outreach to extremely
remote and disadvantaged ethnic minority groups, assistance for people with disabilities, and the free
education pilot. Past experience clearly shows that successful preparation, implementation, and monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) of such projects requires (a) strong support from all levels of government, (b) an
extremely capable Project Management Office (PMO) system at all levels, and (c) a powerful and timely
monitoring and evaluation and MIS system. In order to meet the extraordinary demands of this complex
and innovative project, PRCDP includes an explicit component to support project management and M&E.
The project management system builds upon the highly successful model (and the existing PMOs) of the
previous Southwest and Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction projects. The M&E system, which also
builds on the successful experience of these previous projects, will comprise both an "internal" physical
monitoring and information system, and an independent impact assessment system. The independent
impact assessment system will in turn include both a quantitative program, based on annual surveys of
1800 project and nonproject households, and a qualitative program which will be driven by the expressed
views of the primary beneficiaries.

Component VII: People with Disabilities Assistance Pilot. People with disabilities (PwD) in many cases
comprise the poorest of the poor in China. Particularly in remote rural villages, their overall well-being is
often at very low levels. PRCDP would include a special component in Yuexi County in Sichuan to assist
PwD in these most difficult and challenging circumstances. Grant funding of at least US$1 million is being
sought to support this innovative pilot component. The PRCDP PwD Assistance Component would focus
on four areas:

1. data collection and analysis: understanding more about disability as a cause of poverty, the incidence
     and experience of disability-related poverty and poverty-disability linkages;
2. interventions which focus on prevention; such as nutrition, health promotion activities, mainstreaming
     disability into infrastructure and livelihoods activities;
3. improved access to good quality medical services, such as, community rehabilitation;
4. empowerment/livelihoods pilots targeted to people with disabilities.

It has also been agreed that the project would adopt and promote participatory approaches for people with
disabilities.

I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)

                                                        5
                                                                                                            ISDS


The project would improve the income levels and well-being of about 1.4 million absolute poor in 18
upland counties in Sichuan, Yunnan, and Guangxi. The three provinces (Autonomous Region) are in
China's lagging western region, and all 18 counties are nationally designated poor counties. All of the
project villages in Yunnan and Guangxi are designated key poor villages, and two-thirds of the project
villages in Sichuan are designated key poor villages. Ethnic minority people comprise two thirds of
project beneficiaries, and include people of the Yi, Wa, Dai, Lahu, Zhuang, Miao, Molao, Dong,
Maonan and other groups.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments: The safeguards team endorsed the proposed "B" environmental category. During discussion with
the TTL, it was determined that the scale of local investments would be small, environmental impacts of these
activities are well understood, there are well-developed mitigation measures, and China has a good track
record in previous projects of this type. Thus the "B" categorization is justified. The project will include a
modest amount of very small-scale civil works and construction under Components 2, 3 and 4. However,
there will be no new roads built in the area, only repair and upgrading of existing roads and paths.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on    for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                      Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                          Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                  Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                  Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                             Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                       Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
OP 4.01 -- Environmental Assessment

The overall objective and tentative design of the proposed project suggest that the net environmental impact
of the project will be positive, and that negative environmental effects will not be significant, sensitive,
irreversible or long-term. The project's focus on poverty reduction and improving the livelihoods of the
poorest through a decentralized participatory approach is likely to have the largest cumulative impact on
the environment given the demonstrated causal connection between poverty and environmental degradation.
The project will bring specific environmental benefits through improved soil and water management,
increase of permanent vegetation cover, training and promotion of improved agricultural and livestock
raising practices and capacity building of government staff, contractors and farmers in environmental

                                                       6
                                                                                                             ISDS


issues and better practices.

Any potential negative environmental effects of the proposed project would be modest and localized. The
potential negative effects are: natural habitat and forest degradation from improved road access; grazing
exceeding the land's carrying capacity and causing soil erosion; loss of biodiversity and native species;
organic and non-organic solid and liquid waste disposal; quarrying of stone and road construction
damaging natural landscapes and causing land slips and undisposed spoil; and higher use of fertilizer,
plastic sheeting, pesticides and herbicides with consequent accumulation in soil, water and people. The
cumulative effect of these possible impacts is not significant although local problems can be expected to
occur. It is anticipated that the overall improvement in the conditions of the populace will outweigh the
negative impacts in these locations and serve to reduce other more negative impacts that would occur
should no project take place. Management, mitigation and monitoring measures have been proposed to
negate or reduce these impacts within the Environmental Management Plan (EMP).


OD 4.20 (being converted to OP 4.10) -- Indigenous Peoples

The project's principal social issue is achieving effective and appropriate outreach to the poorest and most
disadvantaged villages and households, ethnic minority groups, and women and girls. Ethnic minority
people comprise the majority of the project's beneficiaries, and the success of the project will depend
critically on providing these people with full participatory access to the entire range of project activities.
These project activities must be tailored to the expressed needs of the individual ethnic minority groups
and, to the full extent possible, should be designed and determined by the ethnic minority people
themselves. Several of the ethnic minority groups in the project area, including the Wa people in Yunnan,
the Yi people in Sichuan, and the Miao (Hmong) people in Guangxi and elsewhere, are among the poorest
and most severely disadvantaged in all of China. The diversity of the many ethnic minority groups, and
their remoteness and language differences, make this one of the principal challenges to successful project
design and implementation.

The project preparation process has directly addressed this challenge. First, an intensive Social Assessment
has helped identify the poorest communities, clarify the special characteristics and needs of the most
disadvantaged ethnic minority groups, determine gender based inequalities, detail the decision making
process at the village level, and otherwise inform the project of the social context at the local level. The
Social Assessment is included in the Project Implementation Manual. Second, the project has developed a
participatory approach for village level project planning. A village participatory planning manual is being
developed under the project for village investment. This participatory process would empower the targeted
ethnic minority communities and drive the decision-making process for the detailed project planning at
village level. Third, given the programmatic nature of the project, a policy framework for ethnic minority
people's development has been prepared for future project planning. Fourth, for the first year program
where specific investment programs have been identified, Ethnic Minority Development Plans (EMDP)
have been completed for six of the project non-ethnic minority autonomous counties. In the twelve project
counties which are ethnic minority autonomous counties, the county project plans, developed under the
participatory process, are considered as EMDPs themselves.

OD 4.30 (being converted to OP 4.12) -- Involuntary Resettlement

Limited and scattered land acquisition will be required for some rural infrastructure activities, but no
physical relocation is anticipated to be necessary. Due to the programmatic nature of the project, a
two-step approach has been adopted. An overall project resettlement policy framework has been developed

                                                        7
                                                                                                            ISDS


to guide future planning efforts in case of any resettlement or land acquisition needs. For the activities
requiring land acquisition in the first year program, resettlement action plans have been prepared.

OP 4.04 -- Natural Habitats
There are no known cultural properties in the location of the projects, however there are a number of
natural habitats in project townships comprising nature reserves of different types (wildlife, forest
ecosystems, natural resources, scientific research) and of different levels (national, provincial and county).
No project activities shall take place in the nature reserves, and any activities located nearby as well as any
road rehabilitation that might improve access to these habitats will be closely examined to determine if
potential for negative impact on the nature reserves exists. During Project Appraisal, improved mapping
and detailed discussions will be held to ensure that the project will not have a direct impact on natural
habitats and that monitoring measures are in place. The meeting agreed that no further activity under this
policy is required.

OPN 11.03 (being converted to OP 4.11) -- Cultural Property
The project could impact cultural sites of significance such as spirit forests or sacred landscapes. The
community-driven development agenda of the project, the screening mechanism described above, and
Chinese national law, will include provisions to address Cultural Property. The meeting agreed that no
further activity under this policy is still required.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not required.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The EMP includes an environmental supervision plan, an environmental protection action plan and an
environmental monitoring plan. These plans provide a number of measures to reduce negative impacts.
For infrastructure works these include: examination of initial designs for roads including routing,
investment in environmental protection, materials acquisition and spoil disposal; monitoring of construction
works for all infrastructure to ensure no excess materials usage and disposal, compliance with mitigation
and monitoring measures proposed, publication of requirements in local areas and investigation of
problems; checking of problems during operation of facilities and impacts on nearby populations. For
agricultural projects these include: examination of initial design including investment in environmental
protection and scale of animal production; analysis and inspection of implementation and mitigation
measures for disposal of pesticide residues, fertilizer pollution, plastic film pollution and livestock waste;
promotion of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and closed
cycle projects; monitoring of application of pesticides, fertilizers and plastics and animal waste disposal;
review of any epidemic handling and regular monitoring and follow-up. For other investments such as
health and education these include: examination of plans especially investments for treating sewage and
hospital waste; and regular follow-up of waste disposal.

The project M&E system, which builds on the successful experience of the Southwest and Qinba
Mountains Poverty Reduction Projects, comprises both an "internal" physical monitoring and information

                                                       8
                                                                                                           ISDS


system, and an independent impact assessment system. The independent impact assessment system
includes both a quantitative program, based on annual surveys of 1800 project and nonproject households,
and a qualitative program which will be driven by the expressed views of the primary beneficiaries. The
project monitoring and evaluation systems will specifically measure the impact of project activities on
equity as well as absolute poverty reduction, in order to extend the benefits of the project to poorer
households and individuals. The M&E system will also yield poverty lessons on reaching the very poorest
to support Government priority to improve the efficiency of poverty funds.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The participatory approach is discussed in Section I A.3 ("Participatory Approach") above. The agency
undertaking the environmental assessment conducted public survey of the local residents of all of the
project counties through discussions, interviews and questionnaires in April, May and July of 2004. In
addition, public questionnaires were distributed in all project counties to ordinary residents and various
government agencies to gauge their opinion and gain their feedback on the project design and activities. A
brief summary of the EA-EMP was printed and distributed in public locations such as libraries and
billboards outside of county offices in a number of project townships in all of the project counties. A
detailed list of the groups consulted and locations where consultation occurred is included within the draft
EA-EMP.

The draft EA-EMP has completed all of the steps of the provincial review process by the Provincial
Environmental Protection Bureaus who are responsible for the review and clearance of the safeguards
aspects of the province. The feedback from the stakeholders was broadly positive. Major environmental
issues raised as concerns were: 61% of the public thinks the project may bring about damage to the
eco-environment to certain extent (such as damage to the trees) if the project is inappropriately
implemented, and 30%, 6% and 3% of the public believe the project will cause impact on water body
pollution, construction noise and air pollution respectively.


E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
          management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
          technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
          projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
          issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                          Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                8/1/2002           9/24/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                            8/1/2002           9/24/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                             8/1/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive

                                                    9
                                                                                                     ISDS


Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              8/1/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          8/1/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           8/1/2002

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Available   9/16/2004
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Available   9/16/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Available   Not Available

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Alan L. Piazza                                     09/29/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:     Chaohua Zhang                                      09/30/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:     Glenn Morgan                                       10/05/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn Morgan                                            10/05/2004
Sector Manager/Director               Mark D. Wilson                                     09/29/2004

