Do_m of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
,   2 &^ 2COg - CD3
Report No. P-4211-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$62-0 MILLION
TO
FO-NDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES (FNCV)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
February 27, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        = Colombian Peso (Col$)
ColSi                                = 100 centavos (ctv)
Col$168.32                           = US$1    (December 10, 1985)
ColSl million                        = USS5,941(December 10, 1985)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES ( ColS/USS)
1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985
47.3       54.5       64.1       78.9        100.8      142.3
ABBREVIATIONS
CIDA                   Canadian Interaational Development Agency
mNR                    Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS             Colombian Port Authority
DAAC                   Civil Aeronautic Administrative Department
DNP                    National Planning Department
FNCV                   National Rural Roads Funds
FONADE                 National Fund for Development Projects
FVN                    National Highways Fund
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
INCORA                 Colombian Institute of Agrarian Reform
M4OPT                  Ministry of Public Works and Transport
SENA                   National Service of Traineeship
USAID                  United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Pondo Nacional de Caiminos Vecinales (FNCV)
Guarantor:     Republic of Colombia
Amount:        US$62 million equivalent
Terms:         17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project        The project objectives are to:  (i) support the Government's
Description    efforts on agricultural development, diversification and
and Benefits: export promotion, and to integrate less developed areas into
the mainstream economy; (ii) improve efficiency and reduce
costs of rural transport; (iii) upgrade FNCV's institutional
performance; and (iv) develop, on a pilot basis, more
efficient conditions for small-scale water transportation in a
selected coastal area. The project consists of a subsector
operation supporting FNCV's 1986-1992 Investment and
Maintenance Program and comprises construction, deferred and
periodic maintenance of rural roads, improvement of minor
waterways, equipment procurement and technical assistance for
institutional upgrading and preparation of a study on
departmental road maintenance.  Specific work programs for
financing under the loan would be selected annually out of
FNCV's program, in accordance with agreed criteria. Major
benefits are expected from value added to agricultural produc-
tion and lower rural transport costs. Direct beneficiaries
would be: (i) small farmers, for whom access to markets would
be improved and modernized; and (ii) the isolated communities
in the Pacific coastal region, for which small scale water
transportation would be made safer :ind cost effective.
Risks:         The project faces no major technical risks.  Other risks are
related to FNCV's relative inexperience with construction and
rehabilitation of minor waterways, the possibility of slow
implementation of measures to improve FNCV's institutional
efficiency and timely availability of counterpart funding.
Strict monitoring of the waterways and technical assistance
components is deemed sufficient to keep these risks at accept-
able levels. Consistent availability of counterpart funding,
which had been a recurrent problem in the previous project
with FNCV, is being dealt with in this loan through specific
arrangements to ensure timely release of counterpart funds
through a project account mechanism.
This document has arestricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their ofrca duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed withouL World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Costs and     The total cost of ?NCV's Program is estimted at US$362 million
Financing:    equivalent with a foreign exchange componet of US$182 millioa equiva-
lent. The proposed loan of US$62 million would finance 172 of the total
Program and 34X of its foreign exchange compoaent.
FNCV's Investment and Maintenance Program 1986-1992 and the Bank Project
ic current USS milion equivalent)
FNCV 1986-1992 Program               Hank Project
Total  Local Foreigp           Total  Local  Foreign
Investments                  123.0   63.7   59.3              33.0   15.4   17.6
Maiatenance, of which:       137.5   75.9   61.6              44.1            20.7
Deferred and Periodic      1O09.5   56.2   53.3             44.1   23.4   20.7
Routine                     28.0   19.7    8.3                 -       -       -           -
Equipment                      9.6    0.8    8.8               7.1    0.6    6.5
Technical Assistance           1.0    0.5    0.5               1.0    0.6      0.4
Base Cost                    271.1  140.9  130.2              85.2   40.0   45.2
Contingencies                 90.8   39.2   51.6              27.3   10.5   16.8
Total                      361.9  180.1  181.8             112.5   50.5   62.0
Financing Plan:
FNCV                         223.9  171.7   52.2              50.5   50.5        -
IDB Loans                     20.4       -    20.4               -       -
DRI Program                   22.4    8.4   14.0                 -       -
IBRD Loan 1966-CO              8.4       -    8.4                -       --
Proposed Loan                 62.0       -    62.0            62.0       -    62.0
Loans to be Arranged          24.8       -    24.8                   -           -
Total                      361.9  180.1  181.8             112.5   50.5   62.0
-_    -          -           =  _
Disbursements                 1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993
(-- IBRDFY in US$ million)
Annual                         6.0   10.0   12.5   12.0   10.6    7.6    3.3
Cumulative                     6.0   16.0   28.5   40.5   51.1   58.7   62.0
Economic      The coastruction and deferred maintenance components of the annual work
Evaluation:   programs would be evaluated according to agreed economic and technical
criteria and yield a minim=m 12% economic rate of return. The periodic
maintenance component of the annual work programs would be approved
based upon technical evaluation of road conditions, population served
and traffic level. The estimated ERR for the road construction,
deferred maintenance and canals included in the first year work program
is 212.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
FONDO NACIONAL DE CAMINOS VECINALES (FNCV)
W-Tli THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (FNCV) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Colombia, for the equivalent of US$62.0 million to help finance a
Rural Transport Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May i1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. Macroeconomic policies were also reviewed in the
President's Report (P4055-CO) for the Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan of May 2, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
A. Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s, evolving from a largely agricultural and rural base, integrated
and industrialized, into one that is more open. The growing economic
activity, rapid rural-urban migration, increased participation of women in
the labor force, and expanded public services have contributed to reductions
in poverty and improvements in income distribution. Financial and capital
markets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. The state enterprises are few, follow adequate pricing policies,
and many have some form of private sector participation. The country's
energy balance has been changing in recent years and the country is expected
to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and, increasingly, an exporter of
thermal coal.
4.        Export promotion has been a concern of the Colombian authorities
for some time. Beginning in 1967 authorities adopted an outward-looking
development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion
policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax
rebates and other incentives were introduced and the authorities began lower-
ing tariffs somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means of
raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness of
Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were successful in
relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth and
employment.



'R. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In the mid 1970's, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary
pressures from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased
receipts from coffee exports, together with some official surrender of
foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a turnaround in-the balance of
payments. Iacomes rose rapidly stimulating aggregate demand, and inflation
accelerated. Economic growth also rose, and unemployment fell substantially
in rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated overall surpluses averaging about 1%
of GDP during 1976-73 and, by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee exports. The
Government also sought to check inflation by maintaining high reserve
requirements and expanding controls over credit thereby reducing, in real
terms, the financing available to the private sector through the official
capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to increasing restraint on aggregate demand, troublesome financial
market distortions, and disincentives to non-coffee exports from the exchange
rate appreciation the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the program.
The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and in early 1980 credit
restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest rates on certificates of
deposit-and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls.  To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy of not expanding the subsidized
selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources
captured from private savings for this purpose. Real GDP growth decelerated
to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6% since 1960, unemployment started
to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
C. Recent Economic Developments
8.        During 1981-83 the economic situation took a turn for the worse in
part on account of external factors, with real GDP growth slowing down to
2.3% in 1981 and about 1% on average in 1982-83. Agricultural output was
hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced input use from
declining profitability and adverse weather. Industrial activity
deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized
capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing. Unemployment
reached almost 14% of the labor force at the end of the year, up from about
7% at the end of 1981. Inflation, however, slowed down in 1983 to a 20%
average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and increased to
average about US$1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly from
a drop in exports in real terms: in addition to domestic factors, major
reasons were the slowdown in world demand, major devaluations and import



restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction in Colombia's coffee
exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign exchange reserves
declined by about US$1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent
to about six months of that year's imports of goods and non-factor services.
On the fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with increased
current expenditures resulting from a system of automatic transfers to
departments and municipalities and large infrastructure investments in energy
and transport led to growing deficits: the overall Central Govertment cash
deficit grew from 2.1Z of GDP in 1980 to 4.1X in 1983, while that of the
consolidated public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.0X.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, and expand non-coffee exports. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated; the housing construction industry was provided with incentives
to mobilize more resources; and selective credit to the productive sectors
was expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced for balance of
payments stabilization in addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit
and ease distortions in the financial system. These efforts were
insufficient to reverse the deteriorating trends particularly in light of the
tight international capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American
countries, has not had a debt problem because of the high share of official
debt in total debt outstanding and the term ctructure of such debt.
Nevertheless, the Latin American debt problem produced a reduction in the
credit lines available to Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term
loans needed to complete ongoing projects, which contributed in turn to
further declines in foreign exchange reserves and to strains in the financial
system.
11.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to focus increasingly on:
additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain the fiscal deficit and
monetary expansion; acceleration of the exchange rate devaluations, further
increased incentives to exports; measures to improve the profitability of the
commercial banking and to resolve the external debt problems of the private
sector. The policy reforms began to take hold during the second half of
1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.1Z, the unemployment rate fell to 13%
of the labor force at year's end while inflation was brought down to 16.4X on
average in 1984. Merchandise exports grew at about 12%; the current account
deficit in the balance of payments was reduced by about US$l billion to over
5% of GDP, and reserves remained at about US$1.f billion at year end (four
months of 1984's imports of goods and n.f.s.). The policies were deepened in
1985 producing a sharp and sustained adjustment thus far. The current
account in the balance of payments registered a significant improvement in
1985 declining to a deficit of nearly 4.0% of GDP. Inflation remained under
control at less than 23%, while economic growth continued at a modest rate
below 3%, although the unemployment rate remains higher than in recent
years.  In contrast to a US$1.3 billion fall in 1984 and a projected fall of
US$50 million in 1985, net reserves increased by US$267 million in 198S.
D.  Growth and Balance of Payments
12.       With further policy improvements during 1986-87, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade would be good. At this stage,
projections are made difficult by the recently emerging international coffee
situation which could mean a foreign exchange boom for Colombia in 1986,
depending on the severity of production shortfall of coffee in Brazil.
Although the following forecasts do not take into account these



possibilities, preliminary calculations suggest that the medium-term
scenarios would not be affected substantially: 1986--and possibly 1987-how-
ever, would witness a greater reserve accumulation and increased debt repay-
ments than envisaged below. The current account deficit of the balance of
payments was projected to average about US$1.3 billion per year during
1985-86 (equivalent to less than 4% of GDP).   The deficit was projected to
be financed by increasing disbursements of existing and new public and
private sector loans and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this
period, net official international reserves would have been maintained at a
level of about four and a half months of 1986 imports of goods and non-factor
services. Total investment would have to be maintained at over 18.5% of GDP
to complete energy and mining projects; and to avoid too large an increase in
foreign indebtedness, gross domestic savings would need to average about 18%
of GDP compared to 16.4% during 1981-84, with the public sector generating a
significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 19B6, real GDP growth
should resume at near historical rates, over 4.5% per year on average. The
current account deficit should also improve rapidly fro,m 1987 on as a result
of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional exports (particularly
crude petroleum and coal), declining to some 1.6% of GDP by 1990.
13.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about USS5.6 billion
for the 1985-86 period. Net foreign investment is expected to account for
US$750 million during 1985-86, most of which would be to complete existing
energy projects. About US$3.9 billion is expected from multilateral, bilate-
ral and other sources, while about US$1 billion will be the new money needed
from commercial banks mainly to complete petroleum and coal projects for
export. At the end of 1984, Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
US$8.0 billion (22% of GDP). The Bank/IDA share of this external debt i.e.
excluding non-guaranteed private was 22.8% which is expected to reach less
than 25% by 1986. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 23.5% and is
expected to peak at about 30% in 1987 and then decline gradually to below 30%
in 1990. The World Bank's share in M&LT public debt service (excluding non-
guaranteed private) is expected to be less than 24% during 1985-86. With
sound economic and financial management and the development of new export
activities, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1985-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       The proposed loan, the 117th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$5,091.2 million (net of can-
cellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1985,
US$3,758.3 million; IDA made one credit of USS19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 72 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$286 million in FY84 and to US$591 million in FY85,
reflecting in part the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s and
efforts to build the pipeline. While disbursements in Colombia have been
slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execution have
resulted in a significant increase in disbursements during FY84 and FY85.
Improving performance of social sector institutions in the execution of
Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures and



-5-
the effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should improve
counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of disbursements in the
future. IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments of US$144.2
million in 29 enterprises and as of September 30, 1985, it held US$67.3
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
15.       Since the initial loan in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia has become
quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 882 of the loans made
were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its participa-
tion in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending for irri-
gation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommunications,
urban development, petroleum development, export diversification, nutrition
and health. By the late 1970s, 53Z of the loans made to Colombia were for
projects other than transport and power.  Of the loans made since 1978, 36%
were for power and transport, 15% for industry, 17% for agriculture and irri-
gation, 10% for water supply, 6% for urban, 4% for telecommunications, 2%
each for petroleum development and export diversification and 8% for educa-
tion, nutrition, health and multipurpose projects. The diversification was
indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader
range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served
to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and,
thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
16.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government has focused upon the need
to mobilize additional domestic resources, to diversify and expand exports,
to develop rapidly the country's energy resources, and to free the economy
from excessive controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate and
pricing policies, as well as incentives for exports and reduction in the
level of effective protection. Positive results have been obtained particu-
larly in the power sector, where power rates were increased sharply and a
least-cost expansion was formulated and launched. Similar results have been
achieved in respect of some other public services, including appropriate
charges for water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.
17.       The Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to increase
economic growth and exports with financial stability, raise utilization of
domestic energy sources, provide key infrastructure, and improve the living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's adjustment
process the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards loans to finance
directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry, support
efforts to raise productivity, income and employment, increase and diversify
exports and help develop renewable sources of energy tbrough lending for
hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. Loans recently approved by
the Board and in advanced stage of preparation reflect the emphasis on: (i)
increasing output rapidly; (ii) reorienting production towards exports and
efficient import-competing goods; (iii) supporting quick-yielding infrastruc-
ture investments, particularly those that enable the use existing facilities
more intensively; and (iv) increasing resource mobilization.



-6-
18.      The Bank's lending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum. development banking, water
supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification totalling
US$707.5 million. The trade policy project is designed to support the first
phase of trade policy adjustments in Colombia. In addition to the loan
presented in this report, the current program includes the already approved
loans for public health, port rehabilitation, electricity distribution and
water supply along with the loan for irrigation rehabilitation, also
presented today, and the soon to be presented trade and agriculture policy
loan. Work is underway on projects for agricultural technology transfer,
energy and power sector development, and financial and public sector
management. In infrastructure, the Bank is stressing rehabilitation,
modernization and a more intensive use of the existing facilities in ports
improvement, water supply and highway maintenance. Finally, several projects
in preparation will also support the Government's efforts to help the poorer
segments of the population. Proposed lending for further rural development,
agricultural credit, and water supply and waste, will help improve the
standard of living of the poor, while being designed to make better use of
existing capacity and reduce losses.
19.      The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their shale has
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in
addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian
reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification and land
erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards of the lower-
income population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in develop-
ing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector activities
to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported programs in
education, rural development and small farm development, but is phasing out
its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for
basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Characteristics
20.       Colombia's advantage of having coast lines on both the Pacific
Ocean and the Caribbean Sea is largely offset by the difficulty of movement
between the coasts and the interior. The three massive ranges of the Andean
Mountains running the length of two-thirds of the country present formidable
obstacles to communication among its main population centers, which, until
recently, developed as separate and somewhat isolated regions. The Magdalena
River, until che mid-century, provided the only overland route between the
Central region and the Caribbean coast and, even so, with serious navigation-
al problems during the dry season. In the 1950s, however, under a drive
toward integration and modernization, the transport system began to evolve
into a national network. The development of the country's railways, trunk
highways and civil aviation has greatly improved inter-regional communication
and national integration.



-7-
21.       The effort to establish the basic transport infrastructure absorbed
a considerable proportion of the country's public investment. Transport rep-
resented about half of the Central Government's investment in the late
1950s. More recently, with the basic infrastructure in place, transport's
share has declined, and, since the late 1970s, it has been around 13%. In
1984, the transport sector accounted for some 8% of the GDP, compared to
about 52 in 1950. In the same year, the country's domestic surface transport
system moved 25.4 billion ton-km of freight, of which 88% by road, 5% by
inland navigation, 4% by Loastal shipping and 3% by railways. Roads and
aviation dominate passenger traffic, accounting respectively for 71% and 27%
of total demand, estimated at 17,250 million passenger/km in 1984.
Infrastructure
22.       Colombia has a road network of about 100,000 km (10,500 km paved),
of which 25,100 km comprise the national highway system, 48,500 km are
departmental roads and 24,400 km are rural roads. Nearly 2,000 km are
private roads used mainly for timber and mining operations. The planning,
construction and maintenance of the national roads network are performed
under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (HOPT) through its National
Highway Fund (FVN) and National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV), in charge, respec-
tively, of the national highways and the rural roads. The Departments con-
struct and maintain their own roads through their Secretariats of Public
Works. In practice, however, departmental road maintenance is generally poor
and varies considerably from department to department.
23.       The railways system consists of 3,403 km (2,822 km currently in
service) of single track narrow gauge (0.914 meters) lines administered by
the Colombian National Railways, a semi-autonomous state-owned agency. The
trunk line between the Caribbean port of Santa Marta and Medellin-Bogota in
the central highlands is 1,287 km long and carries over 70% of the total
railway traffic. The Pacific line (187 km) serves only the Department of
Valle, connecting the port of Buenaventura to the city of Cali.
24.       The Magdalena and Cauca rivers, together with the man-made Canal
del Dique (connecting the Caribbean port of Cartagena with the Magdalena
river), constitute a major transport system totaling 1,366 km of navigable
waterways, which account for almost all inland hipping. The traditional
importance of inland waterway shipping, however, has decreased with the
development of road and rail transport; the remaining river traffic is mainly
hydrocarbons and other bulk commodities, such as cement and fertilizers,
which originates at, or is destined for, the ports of Cartagena and
Barranquilla. River transport moved about 2 million tons of freight in 1984,
roughly the same volume as 30 years ago. Administration and maintenance of
inland waterways are under the jurisdiction of MOPT. Freight services are
privately operated.
25.       Aviation in Colombia developed early in the 1920s, induced by the
adverse topography and the inherent difficulties of surface transport. Air
traffic is now a major passenger transport mode for both international and
domestic traveling. There are presently in the Colombian territory 70
airports whose standards vary widely. Seven of the airports in mainland
Colombia and one on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped for
irternational flights. Aviation is governed by the Administrative



- 8-
Department of Civil Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly responsible to the
President of the Republic. DAMC is financed by the National Aeronautics Fund
(FAN), whose revenues originate mainly from user charges.
26.       Shipping supports most of Colombia's foreign trade.  Empresa
Puertos de Colombia (COLPUERTOS), the national port authority responsible to
MOPT, controls all the public ports, namely Buenaventura and Tumaco on the
Pacific coast, Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the Caribbean Coast
and Leticia on the Amazonas River. Total traffic at the public ports
amounted to 9.7 million tons in 1984. Most of Colombia's seaborne trade is,
and will likely remain, with the U.S., the industrialized European countries
and Japan.
Transport Planning, Coordination and Investment
27.       MOPT is responsible for sector planning, including the preparation
of the National Transport Plan, which defines the role of individual trans-
port modes based upon demand projections in each subsector. The National
Transport Plan also outlines investment programs and the corresponding
financing sources for each subsector. The objectives of the Plan are formu-
lated and updated periodically in accordance with the broader goals estab-
lished by the National Planning Department (DNP) in the National Development
Plan.  DNP also coordinates with MOPT and the subsector agencies the program-
ming and budgeting processes for investments in all transport modes, except
pipelines, which are the responsibility of ECOPETROL (the national petroleum
company).
28.       The current sector policies, largely shaped to accommodate the
transport investment needs with the constraints arising from the reduced
inflow of external resources, the tight fiscal situation and the macro-
economic priorities being addressed in the country's economic adjustment pro-
gram, emphasize rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure and
equipment, motor fuel substitution, transport safety and intermodal coordina-
tion to reduce transport costs and improve efficiency. They also call for
investment policies consistent with supporting productive and external trade
oriented activities and cost-based pricing policies to mobilize resources
through recovery of investments.
29.       The overall sector financing has showed in recent years a somewhat
stable combination of (a) operating revenues (38%); (b) earmarked taxes on
oil products (35%); (c) budgetary contributions (13%); (d) domestic and
external credit (7%); and (e) other sources (7%). Overall, sector funding
policy emphasizes financial self-sufficiency for each subsector. In prac-
tice, however, its implementation has been weakened, particularly in the case
of the railways (which have had to resort to budgetary contributions to
finance operating deficits caused by declining and operational efficiency)
and the existing cross-subsidies between freight and passenger tariffs in the
railways, user charges on light and heavy vehicles in the highways and import
and export tariffs in the ports. These issues are in the core of the ongoing
sector dialogue and are being addressed at the operational level in the con-
text of the Bank loans for Railways Rehabilitation (2090-CO), Highway Sector
(2121-CO) and Ports Rehabilitation (2635-CO). As to user charges in
highways, a comprehensive study is being finalized (mid-86) under the ongoing
Highway sector loan. An action plan to implemlent the recommendations of the
study will be developed upon its conclusion.



-9-
Fuel Pricing
30.       Colombia has maintained in recent years a policy of annual in-
creases in fuel prices to reflect corresponding opportunity costs. At the
end of 1984, domestic prices of oil products were in line with the relevant
international levels. However, the accelerated devaluation during 1985 (51X,
compared to d 22.4% domestic inflation in the period) created a gap that will
require more frequent price adjustments during 1986 to realign local prices
to international levels. Following a 20.1% increase on January 1, 1986,
regular gasoline and diesel are now priced at US$0.61 (equivalent) per
gallon, thus about 132 and 20%, respectively, below equivalent international
levels. If this difference is not offset by the current downward trend in
international oil prices, a further increase should be expected in the course
of this year. Fuel price developments in Colombia are being monitored
through specific provisions in a Bank loan (2476-CO) to ECOPETROL.
Rural Transport
31.       The expansion of rural transport programs to isolated regions is a
central theme of the Government's efforts to extend public services and to
integrate less developed areas into the mainstream economy, increase agricul-
tural productivity and raise income levels of small farmers. Over one third
of th.i 27 million Colombian population lives in rural areas and depends upon
agricuitural activities. Agriculture provides about a quarter of all the
employment and accounts for 20% of the GDP and about 67% of the country's
total exports. The activities of the several public agencies involved in
making agriculture support accessible to rural communities are coordinated by
DNP at the planning level and by the Ministries of Agriculture and Public
Works and Transport at the implementation level.  Fondo Nacional de Caminos
Vecinales (FNCV) is the public agency responsible for the rural transport
infrastructure.
32.       Because the large transport programs to expand and modernize the
road infrastructure during the last 30 years gave priority to developing the
trunk highway system, rural transport in Colombia still remains relatively
underdeveloped. Only in the mid-1970s FNCV started systematic implementation
of rural road programs and since then transport access in rural areas has
increased notably at an annual rate above 10%. Notwithstanding the almost
trifold expansion of the rural roads network during the last decade, the
importance of agriculture to the Colombian economy requires substantial addi-
tional efforts to maintain and improve farm-to-market accesses.
Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales (FNCV)
(i) Organization
33.       FNCV was created in 1960 and until the early 1970s it functioned as
a secondary entity in MOPT's structure. In 1972, FNCV was reorganized as an
autonomous organization under MOPT, and charged with planning, construction,
and rehabilitation of rural roads. It is directed by a seven-member Board in
which the Ministries of Agriculture and Interior and the Federation of Coffee
Growers are represented under the chairmanship of the Minister of Public
Works and Transport. FNCV is managed by a Director General appointed by the
President of the Republic. FNCV's staff of 2,230 includes 100 engineers,



- 10 -
several economists and other specialized professionals. The institution
enjoys a reputation for efficiency and sound management, which is confirmed
by the good performance of the ongoing Rural Roads Project (1966-CO). FNCV
has its main office in Bogota and 25 regional offices, located in each of
Colombia's Department. FNCV's operational and fiscal audits are performed by
the Controller General of the Republic.
34.       Most cf the existing r(tral road system has been constructed either
totally or partially by FNCV. The typical road is about 9 km in length,
built to all-weather gravel standard with a riding surface 4.5 m wide. Civil
works are usually contracted to small, local firms, which in general perform
satisfactorily, and the quality of road construction works has been good.
Only a minor portion of rural roads are built by force account using FNCV's
relatively old equipment fleet (para. 36). Despite FNCV's overall good
performance, insufficient planning and inconsistent availability of counter-
part funds have occasioned interruptions and delays to the construction
schedules in the recent past. FNCV's planning and programming capacity would
be strengthened under the proposed project (para. 56(g)).
35.       FNCV's Sub-Directorate of Engineering is responsible for the
programing and execution of construction and maintenance activities (para.
38). It is composed of three divisions: Projects, Procurements and
Contracts, and Construction and Supervision, which directly supervises works
executed by the 25 regional directorates. The Sub-Directorate of
Administration and Finance is responsible for administrative (personnel
policies, training, staff assistance, purchase and supplies) and financial
matters (formulation and implementation of budget, financial management,
general accounting). It is composed of three divisions: Finance, Industrial
Relations and Administrative Services. Among the supporting offices, the
most important is the Planning Office, which is responsible for preparing
FNCV's operational plans, coordinating the budget preparation process,
evaluating implementation of plans and conducting special studies. FNCV has
recently created an Organization and Systems Office to lend support to, and
improve the performance of, the Planning Office and the Engineering
Department.
36.       FNCV's equipment fleet of 711 units is used for force account
operations to complement the capacity of the construction industry, particu-
larly in remote regions. It is characterized by the old age of most units
(average 7.5 years) and by the variety of makes and types. Notwithstanding,
FNCV's system of assigning to operators responsibility for basic maintenance
of the equipment they use, and contracting external services for major
repairs has proved efficient and its fleet is generally well kept.
(ii) Rural Roads Activities
a) Construction
37.       Since the early 1970s FNCV has undertaken ten road construction
programs that have added, to date, about 19,000 km to the rural roads
network. Five of these programs constituted the major part of FNCV's
activities in the period: (a) the Ordinary Program financed entirely with
local resources, is the largest of FNCV's programs and consists of its
regular and continuous activities of expansion and rehabilitation of the
rural network. It has been gradually loosing its relative importance in



- 11 -
favor of other programs with external technical assistance and financing, and
was down to about one-third of FNCV's total investment program in 1984;
(b) the IDB Program executed during 1970-1978, in which fifty secondary roads
were successfully completed; (c) the Pico y Pala labor intensive program
initiated in 1972 (1st phase), partly financed by the US Agency for
International Development, which was extended in 1981 (2nd ongoing phase)
with support from IDB; (d) the road component of the ongoing D-.I Program
(Integrated Rural Development frogram I and II) with joint financing of IDB,
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Bank (Loans
1352-CO and 2174-CO), which is expected to have completed about 900 km of
rural roads by 1988; and (e) the ongoing Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO),
which will have constructed about 840 km and rehabilitated about 780 km by
its expected completion in mid-1986.
b) Maintenance
38.       According to its statutes, FNCV's mandate had been to maintain thLe
roads it constructed only until the time that the roads could be transferred
to Departmental jurisdiction, and, accordingly, FNCV's focus and budget were
oriented mostly to construction. However, because of the additional burden
that rural road maintenance would bring to their limited resources, most
Departments have been reluctant to take jurisdiction over the roads. FNCV
has, there:ore, been compelled to assume greater responsibility for
maintenance, but previous budgetary commitments have prevented a faster
deployment of adequate amounts and physical resources to this task. FNCV
estimates that resources made available in 1985 will permit proper routine
maintenance of about 2,500 km of the network (10Z of the total) during the
year, and further reorientation of priorities in the context of the loan
proposed hereby will enable them to catch up in a few more years (paras. 52,
53).
(iii) Financing and Budgeting
39.       FNCV's activities are funded through a combination of (a) transfers
from the National budget on account of earmarked taxes on oil products (53.1%
of FNCV's 1985 budget), and special budgetary appropriations (14.8% in 1985);
(b) own resources derived from contracts to build roads on behalf of
Departments or other entities (2.7% in 1985),   portion of the tax on beer
consumption (1% in 1985) and nominal levies o- land improvements brought
about by rural roads (0.2% in 1985); and (c) multilateral credits and
bilateral aid (28.2% in 1985).
40.       Although the major portion of the transfers from the national
budget :" FNCV are binding through earmarking, the actual release of
resources by Lb" Treasury has been in recent years inconsistent with the
corresponding budget appropriations, which disturbed the programing of FNCV's
investments, particularly the ongoing Rural Roads Project. The recurrent
delays in releasing budgeted funds, largely due to the tight fiscal situation
of the last three years, has hampered significantly FNCV's ability to comply
with execution schedules. The project presented in the next chapter
contemplates disbursement mechanisms for both local and loan funds (Project
and Special Accounts) to minimize the risks of insufficient or untimely
project funding (para. 68).



- 12 -
Bank Involvement in the Sector
(i) Background
41.       The Bank has played an important role in the development of
Colombia's transport sector. Its involvement dates back to 1949, when a
transport sector mission reported the transport system to be in an
exceptionally bad condition. Since 1950, the Bank Groupl / has invested
about US$755 million in 26 operations in the sector. These investments
supported the construction of an integrated highway network and, more
recently, have contributed to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
national network and to the development of improved highway and rural roads
organizations. They have also contributed to the construction of over 670 km
of the main railroad line, as well as to the rehabilitation of other lines.
A domestic aviation project helped to improve basic aviation infrastructure
and subsector efficiency and planning. A ports rehabilitation project is
helping to ensure adequate productivity and services of existing port
infrastructure. The proposed project would be the second Bank intervention
in rural roads transport.
(ii) Sector Strategy
42.       The Bank strategy for the transport sector emphasizes policy reform
and institution-building objectives, including: (a) policies targeted at
achieving a more balanced use of existing transport alternatives, through
adequate price signals to consumers and improvements in marketing and
distribution arrangements for key commodities; (b) equitable treatment of the
transport modes, by pursuing cost-based pricing policies; (c) reduction of
total transport costs, by improving modal interfaces and the efficiency of
operations within each mode; (d) funding and expenditure mechanisms to
reflect the costs of use of existing infrastructure and facilities;
Ce) investment planning to give adequate priority to export development,
agricultural diversification, and energy conservation and substitution, with
emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation programs; (f) further integration
of the public planning, budgeting and programing processes and strengthening
of the financial and personnel management practices of sector agencies; and
(g) institutional and human resources development, through comprehensive
training programs at the upper and middle management and operating levels.
(iii) Sector Lending
43.       At the project level, the sector strategy is being implemented
through:
(a) the Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO0 1981, US$33.0 million)
for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural
roads; project's institutional objectives include the
strengthening of FNCV's technical and economic capability for
identifying, programing and implementing rural roads
subprojects;                a
1/ One IDA credit for US$23.5 million in 1961.
One IFC pipeline investment for US$15 million in 1976.



- 13 -
(b) the Seventh Railway Project (Loan 2090-CD, 1982, US$77.0
million) for rehabilitation and modernization of the railways;
the project supports the implementation of the Colombian
National Railways' (CNR) 1983-1987 investment program and the
improvement of its financial and operational management;
(c) the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-CO, 1982, US$152.3
million) for rehabilitation, paving and maintenance of the
primary roads network; the project pursues sectorwide opera-
tional improvement, including the development of a balanced
pluriannual highway expenditure program, the systematic use of
economic appraisal methodologies, the implementation of a
pavement management system, training at the managerial and
operational levels and a comprehensive study of road user
charges; and
(d) the Ports Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2635-CO, 1985, US$42.8
million) for reconstruction, repair and reequipping of port
facilities, and substantial institutional and operational
strengthening components; the project includes major reforms
to rationalize financial and personnel management at the Port
Authority.
(iv) Experience with Past Lending
44.       The performance of these projects so far has been mixed.  While the
results with the Rural Roads and Highways Projects have been positive and the
respective loans have contributed significantly to sector management improve-
ments such as building up of investment appraisal capabilities and more
efficient institutional performance, as well as physical expansion and better
maintenance of the transport networks, the activities involving the Railways
subsector have fallen short of expectation. The capacity of the Railways
Authority (CNR) to overcome institutional and operational deficiencies and
thus, to recuperate credibility with users of cargo services has not yet
materialized. The main factors constraining the rehabilitation of the rail-
ways have derived from the lack of firm commitment to the necessary institu-
tional reforms, compounded by CNR's poor operational planning and insuffi-
cient Government counterpart funding for critical capital investments. The
tight fiscal situation of the last three years has prevented the Government
from making a significant financial contribution to project investments and
has caused the Government to limit its financial support to covering CNR's
mounting pension payments, which are not backed by any funding provision. A
restructuring or cancellation of the Railways loan is presently being dis-
cussed with the Government. The Ports Rehabilitation Project is in its
initial phase of execution.
IV. FNCV'S 1986-1992 PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
Project Origin
45.       The proposed project follows up and builds upon the results
achieved under the ongoing Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO). It was
prepared by FNCV with Bank assistance, and was appraised in July 1985.



- 14 -
The detailed programing for the road construction, deferred and periodic
maintenance components for the first year of FNCV's program is completed.
The waterways component is substantially prepared. Negotiations were held in
Washington on February 10-11, 1986. The Colombian delegation was headed by
Dr. E. Urrea, Director General of FNCV.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The project objectives are to: (a) support the Government's efforts
on agricultural development, diversification and export promotion, and to
integrate less developed areas into the mainstream economy through rehabili-
tation and expansion of rural roads; (b) improve efficiency and reduce costs
of rural transport through adequate maintenance of the rural roads network;
(c) upgrade sub-sector management through improving the institutional
performance of FNCV; and (d) develop, on a pilot basis, more efficient and
safer conditions for small scale cabotage navigation in the Pacific coastal
region through rehabilitation and construction of minor canals linking rivers
and estuaries in the area.
47.       The project consists of a sub-sector operation to support FNCV's
1986-1992 Investment and Maintenance Program. It would finance a slice of
FNCV's overall program comprising construction, deferred and periodic main-
tenance of rural roads, improvement of minor waterways, procurement of equip-
ment, and technical assistance for management improvements, training and
preparation of a study on departmental road maintenance (para. 56).
48.       Based on the experience under the ongoing Rural Roads Prolect, the
technical assistance contemplated under the proposed project would, inter
alia, assist FNCV in streamlining the administrative and contracting
procedures for routine maintenance. FNCV would be expected to contract the
technical assistance and provide appropriate counterpart staff in accordance
with an agreed timetable (para. 75).
49.       Since 1982 FNCV has been updating at irregular intervals, the
inventory of roads under its responsibility. Under the proposed project, the
inventory would be updated regularly and a rural road maintenance management
system would be developed to control the deferred maintenance backlog and to
institute a regular cycle of periodic maintenance (para. 52).
50.       The project also provides for a study to define a plan of action to
resolve the serious problem of Departmental roads maintenance. A preliminary
analysis, prepared by a Bank consultant based upon a sample of three
representative departments, identified key deficiencies as follows: (a) lack
of trained personnel to administer the operations of the departmental road
systems; (b) insufficient funding and inefficient use of available resources;
(c) frequent turnover of key personnel; and (d) inadequate financial and
technical control over the operations of the Departmental roads. The study
will be comissioned to, and financed by, the National Fund for Development
Projects. Execution of the study would be carried out under direct
supervision of the national Planning Department by consultants selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines, under terms of reference and timetable
agreed upon with the Bank (para. 61).



- 15 -
Rationale for Bank Involvement
51.       The Bank's involvement in rural transport in Colombia has focussed
on institutional building and upgrading sub-sector management. The proposed
operation would consolidate the institutional and operational improvements
initiated under the-ongoing Rural Roads Project, now in its completion stage
(mid-1986), develop further FNCV's investment planning, programing and imple-
mentation capacity, and deepen FNCV's policy focus on enhancing productivity
of existing infrastructure through adequate maintenance of rural transport
infrastructure and preservation of past investments.
FNCV's Rural Roads Investment and Maintenance Program (1986-1992)
52.       Analysis of FNCV's expenditures from 1981 through 1984 (in constant
1984 prices), indicates that road investments increased by 80% from Col$ 2.77
billion to Col$ 5.09 billion, while recurrent expenditures on routine mainte-
nance rose fourteen times from Col$ 11 million to Col$ 162 million.
Considering that the size of the network increased from 18,177 km to 22,892
km during the same period, maintenance expenditures per km rose eight times
from about Col$ 610 to Col$ 7,081 (equivalent to about US$70 per km). Past
expenditures on routine maintenance were clearly below requirements. Mainly
to compensate for the results of inadequate routine maintenance, an estimated
30% of the 1981-1984 investments were oriented to rehabilitation. Under
FNCV's 1986-1992 program, routine maintenance would be strengthened, and
regular cycles of periodic maintenance would be implemented to control
premature and excessive road degradation. Outlays for maintenance would
improve under the program with maintenance expenditures per km increasing
from the current US$70.00 to about US$200 by 1992. While the shift to
greater emphasis upon routine maintenance corresponds to sectoral priorities,
FNCV would ensure that the funds for programed routine maintenance are
appropriated to execute the agreed physical targets. Overall implementation
of FNCV's program would be monitored through comprehensive semi-annual
reviews, which would assess progress on its various components and review
budgetary and funding arrangements for the subsequent semester. In order to
facilitate monitoring of the physical targets, FNCV would adopt, by December
1986, an adequate system for measuring progress of civil works, and to update
annually the inventory of rural roads accordingly starting in 1987.
53.       FNCV's 1986-1992 Program includes exp-nditures for administration
and debt service, representing, respectively, 13% and 16% of the total. This
reflects a significant reduction in overhead cost as compared with the 1970s,
when administrative expenditures amounted to around 40% of the annual
budgets. Out of about US$271 million programed for construction and mainte-
nance, about 45% goes to construction of rural roads and waterways, (includ-
ing engineering and supervision); about 51% for deferred, periodic and
routine maintenance; about 4% for equipment procurement and 0.35% for con-
sulting services. The amounts programed for rural roads construction would
decrease progressively from 45% in 1986 to 41% in 1992. During this period,
expenditures for periodic and routine maintenance would more than double in
real terms, while expenditures for deferred maintenance would decrease sligh-
tly as the existing backlog is brought under control.
54.       FNCV's 1986-1992 Program foresees, on average, about US$51.7
million equivalent in annual outlays as compared to an average of US$47.7
million during the last three years. While the higher average volume of



- 16 -
arnual investments does not represent a large increase, the different
composition of the program-less emphasis on relatively more capital
intensive new construction and a substantial increase in deferred and
periodic maintenance works--will demand significantly more planning,
management and monitoring capacity on the part of FNCV. Conversely, based on
the experience of the ongoing Rural Roads project, FNCV's overall
institutional capacity has proven satisfactory and demonstrated a sound basis
upon which to develop further its executing capabilities. The project's
institutional upgrading component (para 56(g)) has been designed and timed to
permit FNCV to develop in the early years of execution of the Program
sufficient capacity to carry it through completion.
Costs and Financing
55.       The total cost of the program is estimated at US$362 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$182 million. The proposed loan of US$62
million would represent 17% of the total cost of FNCV's 1986-1992 program and
34% of its foreign costs. The balance of the program's foreign cost would be
met by the ongoing Bank Loans 1966-CO and 2174-CO (DRI program), and the IDB
Pico y Pala (2nd Phase) loan. A small remaining portion (14%) would be met
by additional external credits to be secured in due course along the
program's implementation period. The loan provides for retroactive financing
up to US$0.9 million to expedite contracting of urgent reconstruction works
on two roads destroyed in the eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz volcano, in
November 1985.
56.       The main compdnents of the proposed project would be as follows:
(a) rural roads construction comprising engineering, execution and
supervision of about 25% of FNCV's program to provide access to
isolated agricultural areas;
(b)  deferred maintenance comprising engineering, execution and
supervision of about 24% of FNCV's program to restore neglected
roads to normal maintenance standards;
(c)  periodic maintenance comprising engineering, execution and
supervision of about 61% of FNCV's programs to bring up the road
maintenance backlog to satisfactory standards;
(d) waterways improvement comprising engineering, execution and
supervision of works, to improve efficiency and safety of small
scale cabotage operations in the Pacific coastal region in two
phases: In Phase I, construction of about 26 km of minor canals in
a selected coast area of the Department of Cauca; and depending
upon its results, another 34 km in Phase II to complete a
rudimentary network in protected waterways in the region;
(e) equipment comprising about 74% of FNCV's equipment procurement
program, mainly consisting of: (i) equipment units and spare parts
to complete and rationalize the maintenance equipment fleet; (ii) a
helicopter for supervision of works and surveys in areas of
difficult access; and (iii) units to equip the Planning Office and
to implement the maintenance and management systems in the
Engineering Department;



-17 -
(f)  Departmental Roads Maintenance study, to be commissioned to and
financed by FONADE, would evaluate the road maintenance needs in
selected departments and propose a plan of action for organizing
the delivery of maintenance services, together with the quantity
and quality controls, financial and appropriate funding mechanisms;
and
(g)  institutional upgrading comprising technical assistance to (i)
develop technical capacity in the Planning Office, (ii) implement a
rural roads maintenance system in the Engineering Department for
planning, scheduling, executing and costing maintenance operations,
and strengthen contract administration and work supervision; (iii)
improve the equipment management system; and (iv) develop
on-the-job training and fellowship programs for FNCV's staff.
57.       The estimated cost of the Bank project is about US$112.5 million
equivalent, with the local and foreign cost decomposed into broad categories
as follows:
Foreign Cost
Z of Z Foreign Cost
Total   Local   Loan   Total  of 1986-1992
Cost    Cost  Amount   Cost      Program
(USS million at constant January 1986 prices)
1. Investment                       33.0    15.4    17.6    53          30
Rural Roads Construction         29.0    13.3    15.7    54          28
Waterways Improvements            1.7      1.0     0.7    44        100
Engineering and Supervision2/    2.3       1 1     1.2    50         39
2. Maintenance                      44.1    23.4    20.7    47          34
Deferred Maintenance             14.4     6.9      7.5    52         24
Periodic Maintenance             28.6    16.0    12.6    44          69
Engineering and Supervision 2'   1.1      0.5      0.6    50        100
3, Equipment                         7.1      0.6     6.5    92         74
4. Technical Assistance              1.0      0.6     0.4    50        100
Institutional Efficiency Impr.   0.7      0.3      0.4    50        100
Depart. Roads Maint. Study        0.3     0.3      0.0    50        100
5. Base Cost                        85.2    40.0    45.2    53          35
Physical Contingencies            7.7      3.9     3.8    50         31
Price Contingencies              19.6     6.6    13.0    66          33
6. Total                           112.5    50.5    62.0    55          34
2I Engineering 2.5% and supervision 5% of rural roads construction,
waterways improvement and deferred maintenance.



- 18 -
58.       The foreign exchange component of civil works was estimated consi-
dering the cost of the imported equipment, fuel and materials required for
the execution of each type of operation. Because of the upward adjustment in
the real exchange rate during the last two years, the foreign cost in this
project is slightly higher than the one observed in the previous rural roads
loan. The estimated cost of foreign goods to be procured under the project
reflects the exemption of custom duties granted to FNCV and the real costs of
custom clearance for Government institutions. The foreign cost of consulting
services was estimated at 50x, taking into account that the income and remit-
tal taxes on foreign consultants fees (to be paid by FNCV) amount roughly to
50% of the gross fees.
59.       Physical contingencies of 10% have been considered for all civil
works, engineering, execution and supervision costs of both the FNCV's
Program and the project. Price contingencies based upon projections of
international and local inflation and exchange rate variations in the projec-
tion execution period, were calculated on the basis of December 1985 prices.
60.       The cost estimates for civil works wete prepared by FNCV based upon
current costs for such operations by force account and by contract.  Cost
estimates for equipment and vehicles have been prepared on the basis of
FNCV-supplied manufacturer's quotations and port clearance costs to be paid
by FNCV.  The cost for consulting services has been estimated on the basis of
78 man/months and 32 man/months of local and foreign consultants, respec-
tively.
Execution and Procurement
61.       Execution of the project would be under direct responsibility of
FNCV except for the Departmental Roads Maintenance Study, which would be exe-
cuted by FONADE, as referred to in para. 50. The agreed timetable for execu-
tion of the departmental study calls for its starting by November 1986 and
completion by June 1987.
62.       Procurement arrangements for items to be financed under the pro-
posed loan are expected to follow the distribution below:
Procurement Method 3/
(US$ million)
ICB       LCB      Other    Total Cost
Civil Works                   -        87.7       11.4       99.1
-      (47.4)      (5.0)      (52.4)
Equipment                     7.4       0.5          -        7.9
(6.7)     (0.4)         -       (7.1)
Tech. Assistance and
Consultant Services
(Engineering and Superv.)   -           -         5.5        5.5
_         -        (2.5)       (2.5)
Total                  7.4       88.2       16.9      112.5
(6.7)    (47.8)      (7.5)     (62.0)
3/ Amounts in parenthesis show the allocations from the proceeds of the loan.



- 19 -
63.       Civil works for road construction and deferred maintenance and for
construction and rehabilitation of waterways, totaling US$61 million
(including contingencies), would be carried out through about 160 contracts
with an average individual cost of less than US$400,000, none of them
exceeding US$1 million. Because of the small size and limited scope of these
contracts and their-distribution in space and time (unlikely to attract
foreign bidders), they are expected to be procured through compecitive
bidding procedures locally advertised, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, in
accordance with the arrangements in use for the ongoing project with FNCV.
About 70% of periodic maintenance, representing some US$26.7 million would be
executed through some 400 contracts averaging US$70,000, none of them
exceeding US$150,000. These contracts would be awarded through competitive
local bidding (without advertising) satisfactory to the Bank, on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified contractors. FNCV would ensure a wide distribution of bidding
opportunities. About 30% of periodic maintenance, representing some US$11.4
million (including contingencies) would be executed by force account,
comprising small works scattered in isolated regions for which studies have
indicated that force account is more economical than contracting. These
force account works would represent about 10% of the project cost. During
project implementat-on, FNCV would improve its contracting procedures for
periodic maintenance, and force account operations would not increase in the
future. The efficiency of force account in periodic maintenance operations
would be monitored closely during project supervision.
64.       Equipment amounting to about US$7.4 million (including contingen-
cies) would be procured through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with Bank guidelines for procurement, subject to prior Bank approval of
all contracts exceeding US$50,000. Contracts for laboratory and office sup-
port equipment, and parts with an estimated cost below US$50,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$500,000, would be procured through competitive bidding
procedures locally advertised, on terms satisfactory to the Bank.
65.       Procurement of components financed exclusively by FNCV would be as
follows: about 15% of new construction and 25% of deferred maintenance
correspond to small works scattered in remote areas with difficult access and
are therefore difficult co contract. FNCV would continue executing these
works by force account according to procedures wb ch, under these conditions,
have proven to be more cost-effective than contrz:ting. Routine maintenance
would be executed 33% by force account and 67% by contract roadmen and micro-
enterprises under procedures with which have been proved effective under the
ongoing project.  These procedures would be improved further and expanded
under the proposed project and force account routine maintenance would
diminish from 40 to 30% during project implementation. Some of the
replacement equipment units and minor equipment and spare parts would be
procured in many dispersed purchases spread over seven years under local
competitive procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements and Auditing
66.       The proposed loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December
1992, with a disbursement schedule of seven years (about 18 months faster



- 20 -
than the regional disbursement profiles for highways projects). It is,
however, possible that efficient project implementation with adequate
counterpart financing could reduce the implementation period of the project
from six-and-a-half to four-and-a-half years, resulting in lower
contingencies and in a reduction of the project's cost from US$112 million to
US$106 million. In this event, the loan amount required would decrease to
US$58 million and the required annual provision of local funds would be
US$11.9 million higher, corresponding to US$1.7, 3.5, 3.6, and 3.1 million
(equivalent) for each year 1986 through 1989, respectively.
67.       Project execution would require disbursements against a large
number of small contracts and against some periodic maintenance works carried
out by force account. Considering FNCV's satisfactory contracting and dis-
bursement procedures under the ongoing loan, simple and quick disbursement
procedures would be adopted. Withdrawals would be made on the basis of
periodic statements of expenditures. The statements would comprise expend-
itures for works executed by contract and for periodic maintenance executed
by force account, as well as expenditures for equipment procurement. Expend-
itures on force account works would be determined by multiplying the actual
physical production by the unit costs for each operation, being the unit
costs updated from time to time. The periodic statements of expenditures and
the monitoring of force account works would be carried out by FNCV's
Engineering Department with consultant assistance provided under the loan.
Supporting documentation would be retained by FNCV and made available for
review during the project supervision process and audits.
68.       In order to reduce the interval during which FNCV would finance the
Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, a Special Account in US
dollars with an authorized allocation of US$4 million (sufficient for about
four months of eligible expenditures) would be established in Banco de la
Republica. FNCV would be entitled to make periodic withdrawals from the
Special Account at the exchange rate applicable on the day the Special
Account is debited. The Bank would replenish the Special Account for the
amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of
the Borrower. To ensure consistent availability of counterpart funds, a
Project Account in pesos would be established in a local commercial bank,
which should maintain a revolving balance sufficient for three months of
project expenditures.  The establishment of the Project Account with an
initial deposit equivalent to USS2.5 million would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
69.       Withdrawal from the Special Account would be made for:
(a) 50% of total expenditures for eligible civil works;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for the procurement of goods and 90%
of locally procured imported goods; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for expatriate consultants and
training fellowships abroad, and 50% of total expenditures for
local consultants and for the training component.



- 21 -
70.       FNCV's general accounts and the project's Special and Project
Accounts and statement of expenditures would be audited by the Controller
General of the Republic. Audit reports would be required annually, within
four months of the closing of the audited period.
Economic Justification
71.       All the subprojects included in the work program for the first year
(1986) have been subject to economic evaluation. The overall economic rate
of return on the road construction, deferred maintenance of roads and canal
works is estimated at 21%. The ERRs on individual road components vary from
12% to over 70X. For the canals, the ERR is 17% based on distance savings.
72.       The detailed program for each subsequent year and the specific
items for financing under the loan would be defined annually in accordance
with agreed upon procedures and criteria which would require for sub-project
eligibility an economic return above the estimated 12% opportunity cost of
capital. For the portions of the annual work programs to be financed
entirely by national resources, at least 85% of the works would be selected
also based upon the economic and technical criteria confirmed during
negotiations. Of the remaining 15%, works with estimated costs of over
US$200,000 or over 5 km in length would also be selected based on the
foregoing.
73.       Direct beneficiaries would be (a) small farmers, for whom access to
markets would be improved and modernized; and (b) the isolated communities in
the coastal region of Cauca, for which small scale cabotage navigation would
be made safer and cost effective. Project benefits would accrue from: (i)
the incremental agriculture value added derived from increases in
agricultural production and avoidance of crop losses which could not be
marketed for lack of reasonable farm-to-market access; (ii) reduction in
transport costs; and (iii) safer small scale cabotage operations.
Agricultural production increases would arise from inputs of extension
services and additional lands brought under cultivation with the aid of
improved farm-to-market access. Reduction in transport costs would derive
from: (a) improved road conditions; and (b) shortening of transport distances
through the construction and rehabilitation of minor canals to interconnect
protected waterways in the Pacific coastal region. The rural transport
industry in Colombia is competitive and the reductions in transport costs are
expected to be passed along to consumers.
Assessment of Risks
74.       The project faces no major technical risks   Other risks are
related to the possibility of slow implementation of measures to improve
FNCV's institutional efficiency, FNCV's relative inexperience with
construction and rehabilitation of minor waterways, and timely availability
of counterpart funds to the project.
75.       To minimize delays in implementing institutional efficiency
measures, and enhance project sustainability, FNCV would: (a) contract the
agreed technical assistance and provide appropriate counterpart staff to
strengthen the Planning Office and th2 Engineering Department by November
1986; (b) complete the design phases of the systems for rural road
maintenance management, management of the equipment fleet and the module to



- 22 -
improve contract management, including administration and supervision of
works, by September 1987; and, (c) start implementing the systems in (b)
above by March 1988.
76.       To facilitate smooth implementation of the pilot waterways
component and to ensure use of appropriate construction technology with
minimal adverse environmental impact, FNCV has set up an ad hoc office in the
Engineering Department for supervision, monitoring and control of progress of
works under phase I. An engineer experienced in dredging operations has been
appointed to head the office. A part-time marine ecologist will be recruited
to assist the engineer, and experienced resident dredge operators would
control the onsite field operations. Execution of phase II would be
contingent upon (a) satisfactory experience under phase I and (b) the
incorporation of the arrangements for the supervision and monitoring of works
into the Engineering Department.
77.       To ensure timely availability of counterpart funds to the project,
which had been a recurrent problem in past years of implementation of the
ongoing Rural Roads Project, the following measures would be adopted: (a)
FNCV's investment program would be reviewed semi-annually; (b) Bank agreement
on the annual investment programs would be contingent upon evidence of
sufficient budget appropriation of local funds for expenditures during the
year; and (c) sufficient funds to meet three months worth of approved works
would be maintained on a continuing basis in the Project Account referred to
in para. 69.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 27, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
T A I L   3 A                                    10 I
COLE11UI1A            - Socw. Im:CSWs ATA 5
COLOfiEA                          - N     GcwS (hIlD AVZRAVS  U
HOST                    CMOST Rg013 ESTDLZU) lb
196ab             ISCl NEUST       MIDDWLiCO              MIDDLc ExLz rTo
L W&  17 "l- 3fTlkiL'-wb    LAT. AIURCA & CAR            EUROP
AMA Cwie SQ. 010
TUnL                             1138.9     1135.9     113.9.
ACSZCULTURAL                    - 350.3      350.3      338.6
cm 1  CAlEA (CUS)                     ..         ..       1MM0.0            1875.9                  214.3
(tILOGAXI af OIL ROUXVALEST)     333.0       493.0      690.0             993.8                  1319.6
DoPUUTiU.NID-TER (TUOUSAns)  13754.0    21266.0    27513.0
URA  POPUATION (L OF TOTAL)       46.         57.2       66.1              67.7                    47.5
POPULATION PROJcTONS
PUPULATZOS IN TEAR 2000 (MILL)                         37.0
STATIOAr  IPOPULATION (MILL)                           60.0
POPULATION IMEIII                                       1.8
PO1ULAXON DUSrIT
PIR SQ. Km.                      13.8       16.7       Z4.2             '6.0                     84.7
PUl SQ. IN. AGII. LAND         45.0        60.7       75.6              91.1                   166.1
POPULATION AE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 tRS                       46.7        46.1       37.7              38.5                    31.2
15-4 YiS                        50.2        51.0       58.6              57.1                    61.5
65 AND ABOVE                     2.9         2.7        3.6               4.2                     7.2
POPULATON GROWTH RATE (C
TOTAL                            3.1         3.0        2.0               2.4                     1.6
UcRss                            5.7         5.2        2.7               3.6                     3.7
CR1 3B1T111 tlATE (PER TrOUS)     47.2        33.3       28.0              30.9                    23.4
CRUD SAm  BATE (Pl Tlius)         17.4        9.7         7.3               8.0                     6.9
CROSS RRPRODUCrlON RATE            3.3        2.6         1.8               2.0                     1.5
PArNLY PLAMM
ACCEPTORS. ANEW. (T1300)           .       115.4      192.8 le
USES CZ OF ARRIED nR'a)           ..        34.0       55.0              45.3
nEo  or Pooo PROD. PER CAnT
(1969-71-100)                    100.0        99.0      117.0            109.6                    109.1
-n CPrN SUPPLY OF
CALORIES     Of RQUIREMTS)      102.0       89.0      110.0             113.2                   131.5
PorINs (GttS PER DT)            54.0        46.0       57.0              69.4                    92.4
OF WICII ANMAL AD PULSE        28.0        24.0       25.0 /d           34.2                    34.5
CHXLD CAGES 1-4) DAE  RATE         9.4        6.6         3.0               4.8                     4.7
LIE EXPECT. AT 81323 (YEANS)      53.1        58.9       64.1              64.8                    67.2
INFA* MERT. RATE (PER NUS)        93.5       70.5        53.0             59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (21PP)
TOTAL                           30.0        63.0       92.0 Ie           65.3                    70.2
533Am1                          54.9        68.0       OD.0 77           76.5                    89.4
RURAL                            6.6        26.0        9.0 77           4.t                     57.0
ACCESS TO  CETA DISPOSAL
(20 OFVOPULATZOS)
TOTAL                            *-         47.0       65.0 7c           56.3                    59.6
URBN                             ..         75.0      t00.0 77           73.4                    65.9
RURAL                            ..         6.0         4.0 7@           23.5                    47.6
POPULATION PER PRSCLIAN         2640.0      2330.0     1710.0 le         1909.7                  1070.5
PoP. PER N URS INC PERSON       4220.0 /f   730.0       800.0 7W          808.2                   769.5
POP. PER SPITAL BDI
TOTAL                          360.0       450.0      580.0 /-          362.0                   328.3
URBA                             ..        380.0       90.0 77          422.0                   201.9
RUAL                             ..          ..         ..             2716.7                  4519.7
ASNISSIONS PER ROSPITAL Be D                  22.9       29.6 /d           27.5                    20.0
AVERAE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                        5.7        .
URBN                                         5 5  a
RumA                              *          5-9         -*
AVERSE NO. OF PERSONSIGIM
TOTAL
URNI                              ..         1.6  _.
MILCENAG oF WVELL1YCS WITH CLEcr.
TOTAL                            47.0 lb    58.1 k      .                 .
UR-AN                            83.0 r     S 5
RUAL                             8.o7       13.2        .



- 24 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A 8 L   IA                                       PACE2
COLOIZA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SH
COLOMIA                              REFERECE GROUS (WEIGTD AVERAGES)
MOST                     (HOST RECRUT ESTIMTC) lb
RCCNT 0 /DLC  rNCM                     DNOLE TX-ONE
1S601-b    197n/! EI5AjiTZ/b       LAT. AUICA 6 CAR              EUROPE
30MCATIOR
ADJUSTED ENROLLNT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                   77.0       108.0       130.0              106.7                    101.9
KALE                    77.0       107.0      129.0              108.5                    106.2
FEMALE                 77.0       110.0       132.0              104.6                     97.5
SECOUAY: TOTAL                    12.0        25.0        48.0              44.2                      57.5
KALE                   13.0        25.0        45.0              42.7                      64.9
FEMALE                 11.0        24.0        51.0              44.9                      50.0
VOCATIONAL (E OF SECOMAITI          30.3 It    20.2         21.6 Id           13.3                      21.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           38.0        38.0        31.0              29.9                      25.1
SECO iAY                          11.0        17.0        20.0               16.7                     19.1
PASSENiER CARS/THOUSAND POP          5.7        11.2        18.6 Id           46.0                      54.2
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       125.1       104.3       131.7             328.3                     170.7
TV REEcIVERS/THOUSAID POP            9.5        38.1        86.9 /c          112.4                     149.3
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GUERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            50.0       108.7        41.0              81.1                      97.0
CINEM  ANNUAL ATrENDANCE/CAPITA      ..          ..          2.6               2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LOtR FORCE (TWOUS)          4727.0      6353.0      9084.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  19.2        24.8        24.6              23.6                      36J3
ASRlCOUIUE (PERCENT)              51.4        37.9        25.8 IC           31.4                      40.8
INDSTRLY (PERCUNT)                19.2        21.0        21.27?            24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATIoN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             30.0        29.9        33.0              33.5                      3.1
KALE                              4S.8        45.1        49.4              51.3                      55.1
FEMALE                            11.5        14.8        16.1              15.9                      31.4
ECOMIC DEPMDENCT RATIO               1.7         1.6         1.3               1.3                       0.9
XU5 DISUZUTIW
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVE BY
HIGHEST 5S OF HUSEHOLDS           41.2 fbJ   31.9 LI
HICHEST 202 OF HOUSEOLDS          67.7 f      60.1 
Lowr   20 OF HOUSDOLDS             2.1         3..
IAEST 402 OF HOISEHOLD             6a.8       is.,          .                 ..
ESTIMED ABSOLUTE POVRTY IJICOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
AN                                 ..          .         214.0 Id          288.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        197.0 7C          185.3
ESTIMATED REIATIVE PCVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          -         267.0 Id          519.8
RURAL                                          ..        122.0 7i          359.7
ESTIMA      POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                              ..          ..        34.0 /d
RURAL                              ..
NCT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
S O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arthmetic mene. Covera  of constrr-
aong the L-dicatore dapend  an availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unoles othecuiae noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwen
1969 and 1971; and data for "'ost Recent ZEtimte" between 1981 and 1983.
Ic   1980; ;d 1977; 1. 1978; If 1962;  sLL 1973; lh 1964; A Includlng teacher training at the tertiary
level; 7j zcnoou!?ally acCte population.
mNE. 1985



-25 -                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note: Although thedatare dra wn fom sources generalyjudged the most authontative and reliable. it should aklo be noted that they may not be interationally
compatrble because of the lack of standarized delmiuons and concepts used by different countne in collecung the data. The data are. nonethees. aseful to
describe orders of magnitude. indicate trends, and characterize ceain major differenes between countries.
The reference groups are H i the same country group of the subject country and (21 a country group with somewhat hgiger i avrage income than the country
group of the subject country texcept ru -Htgh Income Oil Exponers- group wherm Middle Inn me North Afric and Middkl East- ischosen because ofsitrongcr
soto-Lultural afrIntiesL. In the reference group data the average are population weighted arithmetic mens for each indicator and showr only when majority
ofthecountres in a group hasdata for that indicator Snce thecoverage ofcountries mong tie indiaaorsldependson the availabibty ordata and is not umform.
caution must be exercsed in relating averages or one indicator to another These averages are only useful in companng the value ofone indicautor at a time among
the country and recren  r. ups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Crde Birth Rate (perthouasd  - Numberof live birthsin the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land urca and inland wai.'rs;  per thousand of mid-can population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                           Crude Death Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths in the year
-Agricukuru-Estimate of agncultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reprodction Rate- - Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. i960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bcar in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (IUSS)- GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 194IW
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as It.rlFd Fai                -
BanmAts .4r 198X-113 basisi. 1983 data                               F/ PtaWMdn  -Acceptror. .4nunl fironsndr-Annual num-
her of acceptors uf birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENNERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary cnergy (coal and lignite.        Fauiy Piming-User (pernt of           ed s    ae-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal clrc-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricty) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
19822 data.                                                        of child-beanng age are generally womcn aged 15-49. although for
sonic countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
rotal Popation. Mid- Year (thousands) - As of July 1: 19.1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
IndexofFoodProeianPer Cqpita(1969-71=lWfl- Indexofper
rrban Population (percent of tosarj  Ratlio of urban Ett total     capita annual production If all food commodities. Production
population; differcnt definitions tif urban areas may affect cumpar-  excludes animal feed and seef agriculture. Fod  commodities
ability of data among countries. l96t. 1970. and 1983 data.        include primarv commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
P-oulation Poectio                                                 which are edible and conlain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Prapuat:ien in rear 3R0  The projection of population for 2000.    excluded); thcy comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separatdy. Starting with information on      vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fenility rates mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the hase vear 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   19X2 data.
assumptions until the population became stationarv.                 Per Capita Sirpply of Calories(percent frequirnusJ -Comput-
S:arfmnarr ptp ulrtron  Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= II. In such a population- the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculturc. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age strucccre is also     food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationatr population   estimated by FAO. aed on physiological noeds for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considenng environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Mlmnentaurn  Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supply of Protein (grams per day)- - Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertilit ha% been   per capita net supph of food per dav. Net suppiv of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  a, abste  Requiremcente fesr all countries established bv USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the )car t is measured as   provside foir minimum allowantcs of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  dav and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Poplation Dncrsy                                                   average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Pr- syqknm. Mid-year population per square kilometer (I1o  hec-    Supplv: 1961. 1970 ard I9X2 data.
tares) Of to>tal area. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capita Protein Supply From Animal and Palse- Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrrulirural land- -Computed as above for agricultural  offood dented from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 a,nd 1977 data.
Population Age Strurtre (percesnt)  Children t0-14 yearsl. work-   Child(ages. I-4 DeashRare(perthousad)  Numberof deaths or
ing age (15-64 yearsl. and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 *ear per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. h r moct developing countries data derived
From hlei tabgles.lfU 19hUI70 arid 19X; data.
Population Growth Rate (percent)-total Annual growth ratof .X1
total mid-year populatitin for 1950-6i1. 19tQ-70. and 1970-83      HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percenrst -uahan  Annual growth rates       Life Experancr at irri  (years)  N umber .if %cars a newborn
ol urban population for 190-460. 1960-70. and 19701-3 data.         infant mould lIc if prc,ailtig pattern' of mortality lor all people



-26 -                                        ANN  I
Page 4 of 6
a,    nuc orof i birtb were to say the same throughout its life:  Pup-teacher l^iRo - primary. and secdartl studens en
'70 and 1983 data.                                    rolled in primary and secondary leves divided by numbm  of
w.. -afy Rate (pecthanand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corrsponding levels
..fore reaching one year of age per thousand live births In a given
year. 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                              CONSUMPTION
Ac   to Se Wit (pwcer of pepst5eu)-404L wian. ad             Paseqr Crs (per konamd popula)-Passenger crs com-
rural-Number of peopk (totaL urbmn and rural) with rasonable  prise motor ears seating less than eight pesons; excludes ambul-
acs  to safe water supply (inldtes tred suirface waters or   ances. berses and military vehicl
untreated but uncontminated water such as that from proteted   Ru Ao Ra:rlrm (per thosandpopulaqio)-All types of receivers
borhle sp  an snitary wdls) as percentages of thewir repec-  for radio broadcsts to Senral public per thousand of population:
tive populaions. In an urban am  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countris and in years when
loated not more than 200 meters from a house may be consdered  rcgistration of radio sets was in elect: data for recent years may
as being within reasonabte aceem of that housr- In run       no be comparable since most countries abolshed licensing.
reasonabte aoe would imply that the housewnfe or members of the
housihold do not have to spcnd a disproportionate part of the day    T,Reds (per erspphrceives for broadcast
in fetching the faly's watw needs.                           to gcnral pubbc per thousand populaton excludes unblcnsed TV
the-funsc reivers in countries and in yes when registration of TV sets was
Accen t Exore  Dispol (perent                               inpp to)-te* efferb.
mid ruruL-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  i
epIreta disposal as percentages of their resptive populations.  Newpper C 7aaio, (per  usndppulio)-Shows the aver-
Exereta disposal may include the collction and disposaL vwith or  age circulation of 'daily genrl intrest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human ecretea and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar infallanons.  It is consdered to be daily if it appears at least rour times a wecie
Populatiaiper pffiPid-Fbpulation divided by number of prac-    G    AwNl Atendarj  per Capit per Ye-Based on tbe
tising physicians qualified from a medcal school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year. including admisions to
Populano per ANrziag Prsm-Population divided by number of    drnve-m cinemas and mobie unts.
prcdcing male and female gaduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practc  nurse and nursing auxiares                           LABOR FORCE
P*-dara peHr h'op   fiedi-borarbax, and    --RpuatKo         Total Labor Force (sheusadrj-Economically actve persons, i
(total, ubn and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospitalbedsavailableinpublicaprivatr m ane, geand    - I    students, etc.. covering population of all age. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitatin centes Hospitals are estabshments  various counrics are nlt comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanenty staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fmdk (percent)-Fenale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally cuasodial care are not incluted Rural hospitals.    force.
however mdude health and medicaters not permanently staffed  Agricultre (prcunt)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a phycian (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife, tc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor for: 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer ia-pat    accommodation and provide a lmited range  data.
of medical facite                                            Inutry (percent)-Labor force in mining, consruction. manu-
Ad,'.u   pr Hospeal Rd-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pirvdpt Rote (percent )-r al, alk. andfinule-Participation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as total, ale, and female labor force
AverW  Si;e of Hosehld (persons per ho-eae&oJ-atal, mba,     as percentages of totaL male and femakl populauion of all ages
audri'aI-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively, 1960. 1970. and 1983 daTa. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  particpation rates reflecting age-  structure of the population and
may not be included in tbe household for statisdcal purposs.  long time rnd. A few esumates are from national sources.
A.eig Nomber of Persons per RAom-tota, mrba. and rral-       Econoic Dependency Rari-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural   65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectly. Dwelings exclude
non-permanent stuctures and unoccupied parts.                 COME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dweis wit Elctriciy-total. rba. an rural-      Perte of Total Dispsbk l1oi (both in cash and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with lectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dvellings respectively.      hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
A4fusred Eur&oie  Ratios                                     The following cstimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prirary schod - total. tae and fenwk-Gross total. male and   lvels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the prmnary level as percetages of  Estimated Absohure Poverty laconw lAvel (USS per capita)-urban
respective primary school-ge populations. Whilc many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-l1 yeas  others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate dict plus essential
differences in country praices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios gfvne  For some counies with unimversal  Eslrated Relave Peerr Income Level fUSS per capita)-rban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since somnc   -   d rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prmary-school  avcrage per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
age                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secanavy school - toat. mae and fenal&-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requircs at least four years of approved pri-   &Emaed Polaeion Below Absltre Poverty nome Levd (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocationald or teacher training  cenw)-ur_     and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
insructons for pupils uwally of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
coce courses are  nmeraly excluded.
Vocanl Enreluenit (percet of 5condy)-Vocational institu-               Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other progams which operate  Economic Analysis and Projdections Department
indepmdently or as departments of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



-27 -
oPpra Rf W- SSX(Bm-1t                                                                                        R4e Sfif b
IBOMI:13S
ammdw3ld               AN1   3%W        1^ 3V           5.3    5A     4-1   KMD    MD    ll        MOI   I=D   MaD    KalO
}mua                  6.9b    7.3U    7,7D    41J    35       44     12    34.    D       -       -
Ay                    9.M  9,2b    %11    A7          6b2      b8  2 b    257    M.9   218    L6         a      2 7  A24
Sld                  ]9NM    221,Zi 2I.W      AM      5S9    N&      48  Q2        MA      m                    S.2 =
MBtb0n                DAM    328    3!,   A,2i    5.i    58           467   79      HIB    am      Sl2    s5    62    N
MM*No7:1        B     7111   7.Q    7^46.1,   i1    3.b    7.2    nS    212    17D0   31L                   S      A     2.
pcf gomdM   N S                k61    4;JS       W      3i    54027  4           B11        m      M7N 9    IM    11.    VA
bFmfw*dmsX             6JR7    6.      5,81    S.M    4U       Ob     9.1   l!s    15.9   W4       W7   0UJ    III    L3
ahimrmgFdq             5,1     4 W     4^X  451         LZ    UZ2   -LA        4     w      M62    M2 SL          U,b   133
leOhEv                 3B      W       298     31      -      4.     M   7          .      1"U.            2    u      g
Phdai- bm Om     4,M     5,B21   4^s    3,M       3.5    2J    2s3  lMO   IMID   IC0   IX    IMO   Il    KDD
kW               N~2i    29      m       ab    ILo    6A       KU      Z      5i     61     6.3     Si   6,1       .
721 di7 b7~~~~72   Zff           SD      415 -A         3     Q       2.0     -      LA   IS3  L3  143 U2
. -dad_t    1 t65    1.9           im      we      52    -41    IL7    AW     v        3m      m   YS    19 
ca                   2J76    2dW    t1g       1$      Lo      SS     9.0   SL9   5W9    5S9    4L2    4SS   4L7    U.8
aIS     ws      Slb    1iN      Sl     W9       Sl    Sll    SW       SBb t   Lq
S^ADISSAFMdf
OP&Fw                        25.Y W                   2L92L5  91 1     .1  B      W  2.8     M      ZI    RO
P. ,  B1 3x                    l       9     Y-b8             30L1    2       47b.3   %5    GU   7&9 K
Sppdk*                       aL7  l]MO  1s3    21U    ZBa            MA    m         35b 371 f AiZ   4R3
IsEm el-lat                79LO    I=      116D    13L     1a6    IB7J    Wa6   23    31.3   3M2   3ZL4
%= wd- tft                   m       KM        u      M   I1592 IXL1 II9 BZ9  M5    M5   112    Im7 
_r  D                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.2  9.3  7.-I    7,9  78  LZ
a=oxn                                                 6.2     6.1      A      as5     01      9ss
SJO   (W) t (",H                   30                         3.2      -      -a  <    9     -9
0OL9rt                                                4.5    3.5      3.1    31i    2V        2A
amff    thKf                                         LA      012     La      110     01      tLS
1900    MS   195        SIS
QPh  ,. a:                              SID~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.  6.16    32  2.2
QPFrthQ                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2im  4m  Le7  Q2
laRIY                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3sS  Z  40  6.5
hp- r                                                L17    0.14    2.H       ZAB
PC      o= IdddbdtlEr
O=w    *     DEs



- 28 -
Rpi-l- 17,1,aD**H9M                            EM0f               DML AoD                                       1n
GPF gqb   IE1420 09V                                 "IOll E$ a9 ojt )  Da                                     so    6
15    1       lo    'D7 B 1  19913       11 a    3      193             Lb 3           M    L
BLN(RENS
BP= f pCE So&        m id   i,1dm H    i52Z53340   4,    4O    5A    468   4,-M   4AID   4W4   43                 5       73 AM.G9
}     wmsdbadn                     2,f3)  2,31   2,U    35   -O    5.    6.           7    5 4 .81*    51  %M    5,3   661M  1,3
R__ _5 4_                             2      b      U.      An  719                                   -61,   -M2    21      B J2
f~~~~~t3 si    i           -m  ss        4      4'   4B        WE -*9 -41    i             :M    :         3DF6-~f-
Nk owfbst                            3D     3      J0    4S    !B   16S    at2               16S     23      ZD    3)    3D   4D
anmEwzta1um                           -3  21D  4M                                            2    4 s                sljaj -    -a1
Ndt ksflzejp   m                       3      14    la    67    10D  S          ZB    3W       14      11    4D  gD    33D  3D
1d-abiriadhk (id                       3     23    2       11     69    MD   1/SB   12    16          1.M    1,B    1.M  1.2    23
wpdmf                                (ib)r     C39    (5    CQ    O(P   (42       Mi     M3i  M      PM     OM      (0   0a) a4
awRqiz                               -126    2B 3    1    i5    -1  356         32     i3    -       -15   6-W    -%     -M       0
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                    3 m    4(a    Zs  05   1,al  4Md 2Y6 1A4                  (CD  1,9M  1,5 I-W  IJMa
0u]1n1s}Au(-             "           -13    - 2 -         -~IV  4!               -01. 4    71    W2    .a     -     -M    -D3  -M
Mt htrinWfan       (cida2)            #    1.G    2 .M    2,O    4.6   5,46   5,6    4.U    3G0       23   t,5   2,45  Z6   3.
hsard  cf p              ad n.f)    5.0   7.3    9.8    31    15   IL8    ILL    a7    6.4             43      .4    46    48   4.6
8'san                                       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -  _ 
O   f H Amd?fMlma                    3I     D      35    2Zi    919  1,08   137 1 1         , 372  1,B3
QnniL                                42    43      25    !s    36    46         k      316    42    40
Nigmi                              (aL    (I0    (19)   (40)    CM    (m     (       ()    (13)   ()
3D                                  H      H  (-)    H  F              (-)           t-)    (-3   (-)
Ci)   (3)    ()    (ED   (a)   CY)   C3)    (39)   M37   (32)
t~xrn_                               76    24    3D    237    963    W2 1          l,ze   1,3D   1,713
-                                 (65   (612 P(C1)   ()   (4g   (31) (,585) 06    (Z$1, 30(M
MD                                        (      (2t)   (      OM      CM      1)   OM    CM)  (41I)
07                               (1.7   (t,107)  (U3) (M  (           (4    1o3)C           OM)  06
Bilow~a                                 MM C   OM)   (J      tw    tf      OM      M
ar~~~~~6    65    86    8213.5/593331
Ud1dzzad1s                         65)    61    .6    15    1,92   25    27        3A4   321   4.33
11-da                            L73      36        2E3    62 2,f            67     5 7 2;1    ,,i3,45 
(mdal                            (63)   (5.6)  (73)  (7.6)  (7.7)   0.O)   (7.6)  (9.5)M(11.6)    . a= )
ML                                       76)  (72)    6          (211)  (1.L)   2         (.     o
135                             a        M t    t142)  oa.     a.1)  (7W   a.)  (a3  a(            )
-.                                0.1)   065    (6       .   ID   (IIS 2,4B 2,.92   38.5  3,9.
5ihUmd 6gb                          6l l6D  L5S 1.02 t455L            U      2,71   3.7%   3,D7  4,A
lEsl diIt sWC                        237   2ZO    36    3B 657          59    612    go     D S    IDL
Of c   c                           1175  17.   1U.      I.    230    zs    40        51      9   2.
ill n7M                                   9.2    9g0  9.3  129  &5   1Q6   16&6    MI ZL
od2a m            zap               LB    La    L6     L7    2.3    1.6   l9         2.3    25    31
^MMI -e ftnmksm                     7.5    6-7    73    7.9   ID1   03    12.D   106   ID9<  IDA
nFFI,ld                   0      (5~4   (7)    a76    a;-)    "     CF-   C9-5   M4   S
Psbem                             0      (7.0   (7Ai)   tw    01LE   (WS)  (IA4    MM2    M7  th)
1hOlt    v1usmlwMt m1~a              8  34.9   3.5    2.8  1.5   73    129   216            6.8l  Ii7
t563   M4   084   MS4  CtD 1)  (7D   060   063>   OM   (h.)
1) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(79,  (9.6)  OMn MM4 XLfLM    099)    M   Cn-)
DiMElMiLIID                         25,7   272   2tiB    ai.   ML   iBU   2ao    7>    2a9   Z8
lHDdb emmitnlmdLgusm                 33    2Z     a7    20    14.1  2a.   l9         2ZA    22   25A
IDiDt  dLVIMttdt eai                3U    319   2t5    R8    19.5   D3    2W    21J   2iJl  25.3
M1Li YmLlD                          0.9    0.9   0(8    0.8    0.6   0.5    0.4    03    0.3   02
MtdfiummftzimlV=c*mmmu                -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
Mdic axiLdiytm                      0.3    02    Ml    0         CLI   (l     Ol    0.1    0       0
RNk ad pdt*gj-mnvdbb



-29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
72 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,743.8  23.5 1/    -
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6              14.7
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              2.6
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              0.5
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             24.8             3.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             4.1
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0             10.4
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             6.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9              0.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                72.0             10.2
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       30.5              7.3
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0               4.7
18e7    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6             32.6
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                 3.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0             32.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               124.9            48.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Hedellin  Power                85.0            64.9
1966    1981  Colombia                         Rural Roads        33.0             10.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0             13.9
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



30 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEM3EN OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985)
Number Year Borrower                         Purpose          Bank  IDA  Undiabursed
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlsntica              Power             36.0            15.0
2008    1981 Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power            359.0           171.7
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y de'L Medio      Watershde
Ambiente                     Management         9.0             7.2
2090    1982 Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways          73.8            63.7
2121    1982 Fordo Vial Nacional             Highways         149.6            86.2
2174    1982  Colombia                       Rural Develop-
ment            53.0            44.8
2192    1982 Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0            12.0
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano           Agricultural
Agropecuario                   Research        63.4            57.6
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.    Coal
Exploration      9.5             8.7
2379    1984  Colombia                       Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0            24.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electri ca Nacional Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0            54.3
2449    1984 Empresas Publicas de Medellin Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5           150.2
2453    1984 Federacion Nacional de          Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colombiano        diversifi-      50.0            46.3
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica          Industrial Cr.   40.0             30.4
2470    1984 Empresas Municipales            Water Supply      18.5            17.3
de Cucuta
2476    1984 Empresa Colombiana de Petrol  Petroleum          130.0           106.2
2477    1984 Banco de la Republica           Development
Banking         90.0            82.7
2512    1985 Empresa Acueducto               Water Supply     129.0           120.9
Alcantarillo de Bogota
2551    1985 Republic of Colombia            Trade Policy     300.0           185.5
Export Diver-
sification
26111/  1985 Republic of Colombia            Health Services
Integration     36.5            36.5
TOTAL                                         4,791.4 23.5
Of which has been repaid                      1,033.1  5.1
Total now outstanding                         3,758.3  18.4
Amount sold                         51.0          -
Of which has been repaid            51.0          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                3,758.3  18.4
Total undisbursed                                             1,593.4
1/ Not yet effective.



-31-                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
B. STAITENENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985
Fiscal                                           Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                   Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board           .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products        1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos. S.A.         Metal cans            .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Bogar, S.A.                    Home furniture        .08    .09       .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical equipment .50       -        .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing        6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera            Development
Nacional                          financing         6.00   2.04      8.04
1963-1967      Comlpania Colombiana de           Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing           -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing          1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                Livestock            1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74-85  ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles            11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
gHOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Norte                             financing           -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del        Development
Valle                             financing        6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism               .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing                 -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement               1.50      -       1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement               3.60      -       3.60
1976           Las Brisas                        Mining               6.00      -       6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities           13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                              Construction
Material         0.49   2.24       2.73



32 -ANNEX 1II
Page 4 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30. 1985) (Continued)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in USS Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing              9.00      .20     9.20
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material        21.86    5.00    26.86
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                              117.36   26.83   144.19
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        67.34    9.59    76.93
Total commitments now held by IFC                     50.02   17.24    67.26
Total undisbursed (including                          45.39    6.36    51.75
participants)                                                 m        -



- 33 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 5 months (March-July 1985)
(b) Agency which prepared project: F.N.C.V.
(c) Departure of Appraisal Mission: July 1985
(d) Completion of Negotiations: February 1986
(e) Planned data of effectiveness: June 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Monitor implementation of FNCV's management systems and preparation of
Departmental Road Maintenance Study.
Section III: Special Conditions
-  FNCV to:
(i) adopt a system to measure progress of civil works by December
31, 1986 (para. 52);
(ii) annually update the inventory of rural roads by December each
year beginning December 1987 (para. 52);
(iii) conduct semi-annual reviews of the 1986-1992 investment
program (para. 52);
(iv) review periodically unit costs of operations by force account
(para. 67);
(v) appraise the annual work programs using agreed upon economic
and technical evaluation procedures, and follow preestablished
criteria for selecting investment items to be financed under
the loan (para. 72);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(vi)  contract Technical Assistance and provide appropriate
counterpart staff to strengthen the Planning and Engineering
Offices by November, 1986 (para. 75);
(vii) implement, by March 1988, management systems for (a) rural
roads maintenance, (b) equipment fleet maintenance, and (c)
administration of contracts (para. 75); and
- Government through FONADE to:
mobilize consultants by November 1986 to execute the
Departmental Roads Maintenance study, and complete the study
and submit its conclusions and plan of action to implement its
recommendations by June 1987 (para. 61).



COLOMBIA                                   R'                   or
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT          Z      e,             -
LOCATION OF ROADWORKS       0       tO     tO             tO         7         )         '
Ma'Nt.nanc*    Construction         ,,  ;,
O      0   LNI19D6O-COO
O      *   P,OPOaadp.o,ahrXmoaa,soS*.a o08,1a,  o/o1    v>Xh 
P-dTrAnkRoad,                                    0
P-od oSot.
UWnpd Rod,                     MAGD ALEN
FNcV
4.  iooPcflo
--- Nacisbta Rica'
i  P   0C a 440 M.ta-  
Ospantmont          '4ound9o,nist-     <   ;.^  " E. R
= N@VISAbIS RI.,,. 6 '.OA ~~~~~/                  i  
'>  PANAMA ,                    *              '....ORi.... -VENEZUELA
9 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SANZANOPA
X  X,,,~~CODO
iris.                                 NTIOCUI        At          CARAUCA
A.c                                '        *! - ,                     CASANARE
ri0T                              CASANARE
~~o5~ti  C   /            pts,oOa  ~VICHADA
L~~~~~Okr                 0-.ZT                  P          __
"                    E .                                 C O'ME T A  s . 
CA I                          a
N,A R i]N 0~~~~~~~~~0                                                   abt
VALLE ~ ~ ~~~A  0   Aoo
ECUADOR~~~~~~~ss                                                          c-so



IBRD 19297
CANAMITO
COLOMBIA                         ,                         00                 LoPe
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT   /                            c Crook
Minor Waterway Improvements
R3t Year Pmgrom:                     J 
lo be Consicted 
_m- __To be Rehabliaced            ./
PACIFIzC                               IPrc,avtdea '.2
k  *~ 'I  c41 ;         q     LUUO
OCEAN                               --) 9"->  ,6 2{(
I'Me     CrookQI
O         s         la                  20           \          zE
7    (        J 7
PMA-'''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(~- \   ,
0- ! Mar'eUo CNrEe
4So COLOMBIA        2iXCrz   os                                          )     -  
la  MZ - i-    . o tf ma
BAIL
\~~~~                                             \ /1
77       7,     V7                           .>
NOWJAAB  1985



