Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13452
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2668-CO)
AUGUST 17, 1994
Department III
Infrastructure Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banki authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col$)
Average Exchange Rates
YEAR         1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
RATE         192.3 242.6 299.2 382.6 502.2 693.3 765.0 832.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric system in use throughout report)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CGR                Office of the Comptroller General of the Republic
CORPES             Regional Planning Councils
DNP                National Planning Department
EMS                Equipment Management System
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FINDETER           National Fund for Territorial Development
FNCV               National Rural Roads Fund
FONADE             National Fund for Development Projects
GOC                Government of Colombia
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INDERENA           National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources
MMS                Maintenance Management System
MOPT               Ministry of Public Works and Transportation,
Ministry of Transport, as of 01/01/94.
PCR                Project Completion Report
PNR                National Rehabilitation and Poverty Alleviation Plan
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
PO                 FNCV's Planning Office
SENA               National Apprenticeship Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
August 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Rural Transport Sector Project (Loan 2668-CO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Colombia - Rural Transport Sector
Project (Loan 2668-CO)", prepared by the Latin American and Caribbean Regional Office. It
includes Part II, prepared by the borrower, and it incorporates other borrower-supplied material.
The basic objective of the project, the second of three lending operations to date for
rural transport, was to support social and economic development in rural areas. The project focused
on roads, though it also had a waterways component. Specific tasks were rural roads construction
and maintenance, and institutional strengthening of the national government agency (FNCV) in
charge of rural roads.
Project implementation went well overall, due in part to excellent government support.
Implementation of road works proceeded ahead of schedule, and overall project completion was
about on schedule. Savings in unit construction costs and increased counterpart funding resulted in
a substantial increase of physical works.  Actual project costs were close to estimated costs.
Compliance with covenants was good.
The project made a significant contribution to the physical amelioration of the rural
roads network. The PCR estimates the ex-post economic rate of return on investments (ERR) at
25-26%, as compared to an ex-ante ERR of 24-31%. In institution building, the project also met its
targets, though the government decided, after project approval to abolish FNCV and transfer its
responsibilities to departmental jurisdictions.
Overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory. Institutional development is rated as
substantial. Sustainability is uncertain, in view of FNCV's planned abolition. The PCR is thoughtful
and thorough. No performance audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2668-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE .....................- i-
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................                                    ii-
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . - 1 -
A. Project Identity .- 1 -
B. Background .- 1 -
C.    Project Objectives and Description .- 2 -
D.    Project Design and Organization .- 3 -
E.  Project Implementation .- 5 -
F. Project Results .                                                 12 -
G.  Project Sustainability .                                         15 -
H.    Bank Performance and Lessons Learned  .......... .  16 -
I.     Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned .- 19 -
J.   Bank-Borrower Relationship .                                    20 -
K.  Consulting Services .                                            20 -
L.   Project Documentation and Data .                               21 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE  ..............................  22 -
A.    Introduction .............................  22 -
B.    Conclusions and Recommendations  .....            .........  22 -
PART Im  - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ....... .........  25 -
1.     Related Bank Loans .......           .................  25 -
2.     Project Timetable  .......         ..................  26 -
3.     Loan Disbursements .......           .................  26 -
4.     Project Implementation ......          ................  27 -
5.     Project Costs and Financing ................... 28 -
6.     Project Results .     ...........................  29 -
7.     Status of Loan Covenants .................... 32 -
8.     Use of Bank Resources ......           ................  34 -
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2668-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Rural Transport
Sector Project in Colombia financed under Loan 2668-CO for US$62.0 million.
Loan 2668-CO was approved on March 25, 1986, and became effective on July
30, 1986. The project was completed by December 31, 1992, the original closing
date which was not extended. The loan was fully disbursed, with the final
disbursement made on May 13, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Country
Department III, of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is based
on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supplemental
letters and amendments to the Loan Agreement, information gleaned from the
project files, consultant reports, and materials obtained during project completion
mission and discussions with Bank and Fondo Nacional de Caminos Vecinales
(FNCV) staff who were associated with the project.
This report contains Parts I and III prepared by the Bank and Part II
prepared by the Borrower. Part II reflects the Borrower's perspective of the
project's implementation achievements and difficulties.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2668-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The Rural Transport Sector Project was the second Bank operation in the rural roads
subsector. The project was closely linked with the Bank's strategy for the transport sector in
Colombia, which aimed at achieving ,inter alia, a more balanced use of the existing transport
infrastructure, reduction of total transport costs, and improved performance of sector agencies
(para 1). The project's objectives were to: (a) support the Government's efforts on agricultural
development, diversification and export promotion, and integrate less developed areas into the
mainstream economy through reducing the backlog of deferred maintenance and expansion of
rural roads; (b) improve efficiency and reduce costs of rural transport through adequate
maintenance of the rural network; (c) upgrade subsector management through improving the
institutional performance of FNCV; and (d) develop, on a pilot basis, more efficient conditions
for small-scale water transportation in the Pacific coastal region through rehabilitation and
construction of minor canals linking rivers and estuaries in the area (para. 3).
Implementation Experience
ii.   The loan agreement was signed on May 7, 1986, and became effective two months later,
on July 30, 1986. The project was completed on December 31, 1992, the original closing date.
Upon a slow start during the first year, the pace of project implementation accelerated markedly
between 1987 and 1989, when GOC linked the Project with a new social and economic plan,
the National Rehabilitation and Poverty Alleviation Plan (PNR), primarily designed to fight
poverty in depressed areas. In the last half of 1987, GOC appropriated large amounts of
counterpart funds to the project with a view to completing all physical targets by the end of
1990. The Bank agreed to the proposed accelerated implementation schedule. In line with
estimated cost savings and GOC's priorities under the PNR, the targets agreed at appraisal for
road construction and deferred maintenance financed from loan proceeds were increased by 50 %
(1,200 km) and 25 % (1,000 km), respectively, while the waterways pilot component, which was
underway, was scaled down from 60 to 7 km in order to give priority to other investments that
could be materialized faster in areas covered by the PNR (para. 12).
iii.   Though by end-1990 the loan was 93.5% disbursed, project completion took till 1992 as
initially planned, as a result of budgetary complications stemmed from the implementation of
new decentralization and cofinancing policies, more restrictive monetary and fiscal policies



- iii -
between 1990 and 1991. In addition, FNCV in 1990 had started implementing the Second Rural
Roads Project (Loan 3157-CO, US$ 55 million, approved in November 1989) and some of the
investments were carried over under the new project. This follow-on project was designed to
continue with the implementation of FNCV's investment program and address issues arising
from the new decentralization and co-financing policies introduced in 1989 (para. 21). For two
years FNCV carried out both projects simultaneously (para. 13).
iv.   The Loan Agreement was amended five times to: i) increase the authorized allocation of
loan funds deposited in the Special Account from US$4 million to US$9 million, to facilitate
managing the financing requirements of a vast number of larger-than-originally planned
contracts; ii) provide Bank financing for acquisition of parts for a program to repair FNCV's
road maintenance equipment; iii) delete the acquisition and utilization of a helicopter and
laboratory equipment, which were deemed unnecessary with the contracting out of the
supervision of road works, an activity previously carried out by force account; iv) include a
program to upgrade the radio communications system; v) revise the dates for compliance with
certain covenants and the list of departments selected for the Departmental Roads Study; and vi)
permit direct contracting of equipment repairs (para. 14, 15, 16).
v.    Most of the variances between planned and actual implementation resulted from the need
to tailor the execution of the project to evolving conditions. These variances were introduced
with the concurrence of the Bank, and in general were advantageous (i.e., speeding up the
execution of the project, incorporating a road equipment repair program, increasing the
contracting out of work supervision services, etc). Other undesired variances included (1) the
delayed implementation of some key components of the technical assistance program, (2) the
phasing out of the waterways pilot component, and (3) the delayed and incomplete execution of
the Departmental Roads Study (para. 17).
vi.   The project called for a quick start of the institutional strengthening program, particularly
the road maintenance management system (MMS) component, which was expected to have a
great impact in the efficiency of FNCV's operations. However, the consultants were not
recruited until December 1987, one year later than planned. This delay was caused in part
because FNCV had very little experience in hiring foreign consultants, and its management was
more committed to carrying out the investment components of the project. The development of
a maintenance management system (MMS) and its implementation in the first pilot maintenance
districts took also longer than originally anticipated. Though with delay, the MMS was
successfully implemented by 1990. The fine tuning of the system and further training of FNCV
staff was achieved in 1991 with the help of local consultants financed under the follow-on
Second Rural Roads Project (para. 18).
vii.  The waterways component was included in the project on a trial basis. FNCV wanted
to continue the labor-intensive excavation methods used in the past, since they were deemed as
appropriate means to fight poverty in those poor coastal communities; but these methods were
ineffective to complete the excavation of the canals to the design levels. As a result, progress



- iv -
in the implementation of the pilot program was extremely slow and the excavation works costly.
The pilot program was finally phased out in 1990, without completing its first phase (para. 19).
viii.  The Departmental Roads Study after major delays was carried out only in three of the
five departments originally selected. Finalizing the financing arrangements proved to be much
more complex than anticipated because of FONADE's reluctance to fully fund the study, as
originally planned. The selected departments were also reluctant to participate in the study and
least of all to contribute towards its cost. The consultants were deployed three years later than
planned. By the time the report became available, GOC was designing a major reform of the
transport sector, following further decentralization policies mandated by Colombia's new
Constitution, that substantially changed the role of departments in road management. By then,
the study had lost most of its value. Two studies funded under the on-going Second Rural Roads
Sector and Third National Roads Sector Projects will further address the primary issues, namely,
inadequate organization and unreliable, insufficient sources for road maintenance funding in the
departments (para. 20).
ix.   During the project's execution, GOC introduced new decentralization and co-financing
policies with notable impact on the way rural road subprojects were selected and the works
financed (see Boxes 1 and 2). FNCV was required to start co-financing with local governments
all rural road works from January 1, 1989, using a formula for matching grants. The formula
was developed with the help of consultants financed under the project.  The initial
implementation of these policies certainly entailed administrative and budgetary difficulties that
could had possibly hampered final completion of the project. Eventually FNCV overcame these
difficulties and successfully managed the risks associated to the new framework. To support
implementation of such policies, FNCV (1) established new procedures for selecting road works,
giving key participation to local governments, (2) increased deconcentration of administrative
functions to its regional offices, and (3) developed an intense technical assistance program with
local governments to prepare them for participating in the cofinancing scheme and gradually
taking over management responsibilities for road maintenance (para. 21, 22).
Results
x.    The project met its intended objectives, with the exception of developing more efficient
conditions for small-scale water transportation in the Pacific coast. It provided the foundations
for implementing key subsector policies and addressing institutional issues with notable impact
on the effectiveness and efficiency of FNCV's operations.  FNCV shifted its investment
priorities from new construction to a more balanced program with increased emphasis on
maintenance and improvement of the existing rural roads network. Key steps to improving
FNCV's institutional performance were the decisions made at various stages of project
implementation, such as: i) contracting out most detailed engineering and works supervision to
local consulting firms; ii) establishing a Maintenance Division to plan and coordinate all
maintenance activities; iii) establishing an Environmental Unit to monitor compliance with
environmental regulations; and iv) strengthening its regional offices to provide better



- v -
coordination between headquarters and field activities. The objective of developing more
efficient conditions for small-scale water transportation was not attained (para. 27, 28).
xi.   The notable acceleration of the project implementation schedule between 1987-1989
resulted in cost savings that allowed FNCV to surpass the physical targets agreed at appraisal,
with the sole exception of the waterways component. The Project contributed to achieving the
following physical results: i) expanding the rural road network through construction of about
1,160 km (or 45% above appraisal estimate) of new rural roads; ii) bringing up to a
maintainable standard, through improvement works, about 1,050 km (or 31 % above appraisal
estimate) of roads; iii) improving the condition of the road network through periodic
maintenance over about 5,740 km carried out by contractors (or 15 % above appraisal estimate);
iv) improving cabotage and navigation safety in the Cauca Region through partial construction
and rehabilitation of about 11 km (or 18% of the appraisal estimate) of channels under the
waterways pilot program; v) completing equipping FNCV's maintenance fleets through
acquisition of 208 equipment units (or 15% above appraisal) and parts for repair of about 43
units under the equipment rehabilitation program initiated in 1989; and vi) improving the
efficiency of FNCV's management practices through acquisition of radio and telecommunications
equipment and about 80 micro-computers, printers and other office support equipment (para.
29).
xii.   Most of the goals under the institutional strengthening program were attained. The
project contributed to: i) developing improved planning, programming, and budgeting
procedures, and implementing a data bank for rural road projects within FNCV's Planning
Office (PO); ii) upgrading road design standards and practices; iii) streamlining contract
administration and work supervision practices with the use of guidelines established through the
technical assistance program; iv) establishing a rural roads inventory, which gives physical
details of all rural roads under FNCV's jurisdiction and estimates the work to needed to provide
an adequate level of service; v) implementing throughout FNCV's regional offices a Maintenance
Management System (MMS) to assist in preparing annual, performance-based maintenance plans,
defining maintenance standards, and monitoring force account works, and various components
of an equipment management system (EMS) to assist in controlling equipment use and
productivity (para. 30).
Sustainability
xiii. In the short run, the sustainability of the elements of the Project is being assured because
FNCV is committed to pursuing the institutional efficiency goals achieved under the project.
In addition, the on-going Second Rural Roads Sector Project provides continuity for the
investment strategy and institutional efficiency advances initiated under the project. In the long
run, however, the sustainability of the project is uncertain due to the liquidation of FNCV by
the end of 1995 (see Box 1). The benefits obtained through construction, improvement and
maintenance of a large number of rural roads funded by the project may be lost in the future if
departments and local governments do not effectively take responsibility for achieving sustainable
maintenance. Building the capacity of departments and local governments to plan, organize and



- vi -
deliver maintenance services will take time and demand substantial efforts in technical assistance,
since most of them are very weak. The phasing out of FNCV does not necessarily mean that
the benefits obtained through the institutional efficiency improvement program will be lost, but
certainly entails high risks and the three-year time frame allowed by the current legislation may
prove too short for addressing them (para. 32, 33).
Findings and Lessons Learned
xiv.  The project became an efficient vehicle for helping GOC achieve the overall rural
transport objectives of the PNR. The fact that most of the reformulated investments were
undertaken in PNR areas did not hinder the economic yield of the project. Furthermore, the
project enjoyed a high priority in GOC's investment strategy so counterpart funds were promptly
made available. This commitment allowed the swift execution of most of the project investment
components and, subsequently, surpassing the physical targets agreed at appraisal (para. 37).
xv.   Bank supervision missions between 1988 and 1989 placed a strong emphasis on
implementing the recommendations of the technical assistance. This was decisive in getting
FNCV's support for the institutional efficiency improvement program, support that grew
substantially during project implementation. The involvement of FNCV's staff in the design and
implementation of the systems and procedures introduced by the technical assistance was key to
the success of the project's institution-building component. Indeed, the only areas where the
recommendations could not be implemented (accounting, internal control) were those that lacked
this support (para. 31). The project has shown the advantage of teaming staff with seasoned,
individual consultants to pursue full implementation of systems and procedures developed
through large technical assistance components, and even upgrade such systems on the basis of
the experience obtained through their actual application (para. 37, 45).
xvi.  The project has been a step forward towards establishing a coherent rural road strategy.
The first Bank project mainly supported expansion of the rural road network. The Rural
Transport Sector Project effectively contributed to reverting FNCV's trend for road construction
and supporting a more balanced investment program, with emphasis in bringing up to a
maintainable standard, and maintaining, a substantial portion of the rural road network.
However, this is still far from establishing a sustainable rural road maintenance strategy. The
lack of a clear definition of ownership, functions and responsibilities for rural road maintenance
in the past is likely to have contributed greatly to the long neglect of maintenance on secondary
and rural roads. The follow on Second Rural Roads Sector addresses this issue and places even
more emphasis in road maintenance; building on the results achieved under the institutional
efficiency improvement component of the Rural Transport Sector Project, it set specific targets
with monitoreable indicators of output to be attained by FNCV. Nevertheless, a network-wide
road maintenance strategy, especially routine maintenance, still depends on the commitment and
capacity of local governments to deliver basic maintenance. Routine maintenance in rural roads
is quite simple but requires continuity.  In this context, Bank projects should aim  at
implementing (1) appropriate arrangements for timely delivery of routine maintenance by local
governments, (2) a road maintenance strategy for a well-defined "core" rural road network, with



- vii -
targets to be accomplished and implementation arrangements to be used by all of the
organizations involved, and (3) appropriate mechanisms for the central agency in charge of
developing the strategy to monitor compliance with the programs (para. 41).
xvii.  FNCV's approach for rural road development has been quite successful and can be used
in other Bank rural roads projects, especially when dealing with weak local governments who
lack the capacity to manage projects. The cofinancing scheme implemented in 1990 proved to
be very effective in mobilizing local participation in planning and implementation of projects and
developing a strong sense of ownership in the participant communities.  This partially
decentralized model for project planning and implementation comes closest to the objective of
gradually building self-sustaining institutions at the local level through road programs, and gives
the possibility of establishing in one agency a central focal point for policy and strategy
formulation and inter-agency coordination. This agency should have the capacity, and enjoy the
autonomy, needed to address the overall level of funding for rural roads and the balance between
development, improvement and maintenance (para. 42)
xviii. Some preliminary lessons can be drawn from the experience gained so far in the
decentralization of the rural roads subsector.  The deconcentration of responsibilities and
cofinancing schemes that followed the 1986-1987 legislation provided an interesting set-up to
promote local participation in rural road projects, and certainly have been helpful in preparing
local governments for the devolution of roads and full decentralization of the rural road sector.
This transition period has shown how difficult it is to mobilize departments and local
governments to take responsibility for road maintenance. In outlining the decentralization
process, priority should be giving to achieving sustainable maintenance of rural roads. FNCV's
experience in this regard stresses the importance of setting a clear legal framework for road
ownership, well-established funding mechanisms and accountability systems at both departmental
and local levels, and providing adequate technical support (i.e., access to investment planning,
engineering and project design, administrative skills) to enable departments and local
governments to carry out projects more efficiently and deliver routine and periodic maintenance
services in a coordinated manner (para. 46).



COLOMBIA
RURAL TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2668-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Project Name:     Rural Transport Sector Project.
Loan Number:      2668-CO
RVP Unit:         Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country:          Colombia
Sector:           Transportation
Subsector:        Roads
B.    Background
1.    The Bank has played an important role in the development of the Colombian transport
sector since 1950. When this project was appraised, the Bank had lent about US$755 million
in 26 loans to the sector. The Rural Transport Sector Project was the second Bank operation
in the rural roads subsector. The project shared with the preceding Rural Roads Project (Loan
1966-CO) the same sub-sector development objectives, and was closely linked with the Bank's
strategy for the transport sector in Colombia. This strategy aimed at achieving a more balanced
use of the existing transport infrastructure, equitable treatment of the distinct modes of transport,
reduction of total transport costs, adequate priority to export development, agricultural
diversification and energy conservation, and strengthening of the planning, budgeting, financial
and personnel management practices of sector agencies.
2.    The expansion of rural transport programs to isolated regions was a central item of the
Government's efforts to extend public services, integrate less developed areas into the
mainstream economy, increase agricultural productivity and raise income levels of small farmers.
FNCV, created in 1960 to attend this efforts, was reorganized in 1972 as an autonomous
organization under MOPT to spur systematic implementation of rural road programs. Since
then, transport accessibility in rural areas increased notably. In 1986, the rural roads sub-sector
comprised about 25,000 km. Most of that rural road system had been constructed either totally
or partially by FNCV, though departments and local governments remained formally responsible
for its maintenance. The project aimed at further developing FNCV's investment planning,
programming and implementation capacity, and deepening FNCV's policy focus on enhancing



-2-
the productivity of existing infrastructure through adequate preservation of rural transport
infrastructure.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
3.    Project Objectives.  As described in the SAR and Loan Agreement, the project's
objectives were to: (a) support the Government's efforts on agricultural development,
diversification and export promotion, and integrate less developed areas into the mainstream
economy through reducing the backlog of deferred maintenance and expansion of rural roads;
(b) improve efficiency and reduce costs of rural transport through adequate maintenance of the
rural network; (c) upgrade subsector management through improving the institutional
performance of FNCV; and (d) develop, on a pilot basis, more efficient conditions for small-
scale water transportation in the Pacific coastal region through rehabilitation and construction
of minor canals linking rivers and estuaries in the area.
4.    Project Description. The project consisted of a subsector operation to support FNCV's
1986-1992 Investment and Maintenance Program  (FNCV's Program).  It comprised the
following components:
(a)   rural roads construction, comprising engineering, execution and supervision of
about 800 km, to provide access to isolated agricultural areas;
(b)   deferred maintenance, comprising engineering, execution and supervision of about
800 km, to restore neglected roads to normal maintenance standards;
(c)   periodic maintenance, comprising engineering, execution and supervision of about
5,000 km, to bring up the road maintenance backlog to satisfactory standards;
(d)   waterways improvements, comprising engineering, execution and supervision of
works to improve efficiency and safety of small cabotage operations and coastal
navigation in the Pacific region, in two phases: about 26 km of minor canals in
Phase I in the Department of Cauca, and depending upon its results , another 34
km in Phase II to complete a rudimentary network of protected waterways in the
region;
(e)   procurement of equipment, comprising acquisition of: (i) road maintenance units
and spare parts to complete and rationalize the maintenance equipment fleet; a
helicopter for supervision of works and surveys in areas with difficult access; and
computer units to equip FNCV's Planning Office and Engineering Department;
(f)   departmental roads maintenance study, to be financed by FONADE, to evaluate
road maintenance needs in five selected departments (Atlantico, Boyaca, Cauca,



- 3 -
C6rdoba, and Cundinamarca) and propose a plan of action to organize the
delivery of maintenance services; and
(g)   institutional upgrading, comprising technical assistance to: i) develop technical
capacity of the Planning Office; ii) implement within the Engineering Department
a rural roads maintenance management system (MMS), an equipment management
system (EMS), and strengthened contract administration and work supervision
practices; and iii) develop on-the-job training for FNCV's staff.
D.   Project Design and Organization
5.    Conceptual Foundation. The project built upon the results achieved under the previous
Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO). It was designed to upgrade FNCV's capacity to plan and
deliver well-balanced, cost-effective investment and maintenance programs. The project would
help the Government in the design and carrying out of a work program capable of reverting the
deterioration of the rural road network, while continuing the expansion of rural roads to reach
isolated communities and small farmers throughout the country. Whereas the higher average
amounts of annual investments in the 1986-1992 program did not represent a dramatic increase,
the composition of the Program with less emphasis on relatively more capital intensive
construction and a substantial increase in deferred and periodic maintenance works, would
demand significantly more planning, management and monitoring capacity on the part of FNCV.
It was essential in this process to rationalize the use of FNCV's human, equipment and financial
resources, and increase the efficiency of FNCV's operations. Under the preceding Rural Roads
Project (Loan 1966-CO), FNCV's overall institutional capacity had proven satisfactory and
demonstrated a sound basis upon which to develop further its work execution capacity.
6.     The institution building program was conveniently designed to develop in the early
years of the project sufficient capacity to carry it through to completion.  The training
component would develop the skills needed to operate the new systems and fully implement the
upgraded practices, providing on-the-job training to key staff. The conceptual basis for the
project was clear and shared by the Borrower and the Government (the Guarantor).
7.   Innovative Aspects. At the stage of FNCV's development in 1986, the introduction of
computerized management systems was an ambitious and innovative endeavor. It implied
developing new methodologies, collecting data in a systematic way, massive training of staff in
computer skills, and, perhaps more importantly, integrating these systems in to FNCV
management's decision-making practices at both central and regional levels. Another innovative
aspect was the inclusion of the water channels pilot program, which initially raised issues
concerning FNCV's legal jurisdiction. The waterways component would reduce transport costs
in coastal areas by improving modal interfaces and making a more efficient use of the transport
infrastructure. The program would be implemented in two phases. Phase 1 would be monitored
closely to assess the conditions under which phase 2 could be executed and the feasibility of
implementing similar schemes in other parts of the country, particularly in the Choco and



- 4 -
Amazon regions. Finally, the departmental roads study was the first step to address technical
and financial issues constraining the capacity of most of Colombia's departments to deliver road
maintenance services.
8.    Project Preparation. The project was prepared by FNCV with Bank assistance, between
1984 and 1985, and appraised in July 1985. Preparation focussed on developing a sectoral,
rolling 1986-1992 Investment and Maintenance Program. The program included construction,
deferred and periodic maintenance of rural roads, construction of bridges and improvement of
minor waterways, to be carried out by either contractors or FNCV's force account, and some
routine maintenance components to be executed by small labor-intensive associations (i.e.,
microempresas, peon caminero, pico y pala programs).  Cost estimates for the various
components were based on data gathered from on-going operations carried out by force account
and by contract. Prior to negotiations FNCV completed the screening, economic evaluation and
basic engineering of about 490 km of road construction and deferred maintenance subprojects
for the first year of the Program. The economic analysis of these subprojects yielded an average
ERR of about 23%; the methodology used had been developed in 1980 under the precedent
Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO). According to the SAR preliminary designs were available
for part of the first phase of the waterways component, with some engineering details to be
defined later by FNCV's expert in dredging operations. The equipment acquisition component
was defined on the basis of an inventory of the existing fleet and an assessment of future
equipment needs to rationalize FNCV regional offices' fleets and deliver the force account
program.
9.    Agreements reached during project preparation encompassed: i) the scope and physical
targets to be achieved under the Investment and Maintenance Program; ii) the scope and timing
of the semi-annual reviews of the Program, including the achievement of the Program's targets;
iii) criteria and procedures for screening and economic evaluation of capital investment
subprojects, and an inventory format for ranking periodic maintenance priorities; iv) timetables
for adoption of adequate systems to measure progress of civil works and update the rural road
inventory on an annual basis; v) terms of reference and timetables for recruitment of consultants
for, and implementation of, the technical assistance component and the Departmental Roads
Study; vi) the establishment of a Project Account (revolving fund) in pesos, which should
maintain a revolving balance sufficient for three months of project expenditures (this, including
an initial deposit equivalent to US$2.5 million, was a condition for loan effectiveness); and vi)
the provision of retroactive financing US$0.9 million worth for urgent works on two roads,
included in the first year program, which were destroyed in 1985 during the eruption of the
Nevado del Ruiz volcano.
10.   Roles and Responsibilities. The roles and responsibilities were clearly defined during
project preparation, stated in the SAR, and agreed by all parties concerned. The responsibility
for financing and carrying out the Departmental Roads Study was levied on FONADE, while
DNP would be responsible for its supervision. This arrangement proved not convenient. Since
FONADE was not fully committed to the execution of the study, it was unable to complete the
financial arrangements and recruit consultants in time (para. 20).



- 5 -
11.   Contributions to Success/Failure. The project was approved at the right time. In
August 1986 a new administration took office and a few months later launched a new social and
economic plan primarily designed to fight poverty in depressed areas. Through this plan, called
the National Rehabilitation and Poverty Alleviation Plan (PNR), GOC intended to increase public
expenditure in about 30% of Colombia's municipalities, covering an area that accounted for
more than 35% of the country's area. GOC perceived that the lack of road infrastructure,
particularly the need to improve farm to market access, was one of the major impediments for
developing marginal areas, and identified the Rural Transport Project as an appropriate and
efficient vehicle to achieve the overall rural transport objectives of the plan. As a result, GOC
gave high priority to the implementation of FNCV's Investment and Maintenance Program, and
apportioned large amounts of counterpart funding to notably accelerate the project's
implementation. This acceleration resulted in cost savings that were applied to surpass the
physical targets agreed at appraisal.
E.   Project Inplementation
12.   The loan agreement was signed on May 7, 1986, and became effective two months later,
on July 30, 1986. The project was completed by December 31, 1992, the original closing date.
Project implementation generally followed appraisal estimates, with minor variations discussed
below. Upon a slow start during the first year --mainly due to the change of administration, the
pace of project implementation accelerated markedly between 1987 and 1989, when GOC linked
the Project with the PNR (para 11). In the last half of 1987, GOC appropriated large amounts
of counterpart funds to the project with a view to completing all physical targets by the end of
1990. The Bank agreed to the proposed accelerated implementation schedule. In line with
estimated cost savings and GOC's priorities under the PNR, the targets agreed at appraisal for
road construction and deferred maintenance financed from loan proceeds were increased by 50 %
(1,200 km) and 25 % (1,000 km), respectively, while the waterways pilot component, which was
underway, was scale down from 60 to 7 km in order to give priority to other investments that
could be materialized faster in areas covered by the PNR.
13.   Though by end-1990 the loan was 93.5% disbursed, project completion took till 1992 as
initially planned, as a result of budgetary complications stemmed from the implementation of
new decentralization and cofinancing policies, more restrictive monetary and fiscal policies
between 1990 and 1991. In addition, FNCV in 1990 had started implementing the Second Rural
Roads Project (Loan 3157-CO, US$ 55 million, approved in November 1989) and some of the
investments were carried over under the new project. This follow-on project was designed to
continue with the implementation of FNCV's investment program and address issues arising
from the new decentralization and co-financing policies introduced in 1989 (para. 21). For two
years FNCV carried out both projects simultaneously.
14.  In line with the revised project implementation schedule, procurement of civil works was
accelerated, and the Loan Agreement amended on March 11, 1987 to increase the authorized
allocation of loan funds deposited in the Special Account from US$4 million to US$6 million.
Another amendment dated November 16, 1988, further increased this amount to US$9 million,



- 6 -
to facilitate managing the financing requirements of a vast number of larger-than-originally
planned contracts in execution.
15.   Force account maintenance activities, however, could not followed the same accelerated
pace, due to the need to await delivery of road equipment procured under the Project and
improvement of procedures for programming such works. Eventually, most of the road
equipment arrived before the end of 1989, and FNCV upgraded its maintenance planning and
programming practices through the technical assistance in road maintenance carried out between
1988-1989. However, to further upgrade the operational capacity of its maintenance fleet,
particularly for regraveling works, FNCV started refurbishing some of its graders replacing their
low-powered engines with engines more appropriate for regular maintenance works. Based on
cost comparisons between purchasing new graders and refurbishing the low-powered ones, it was
concluded that it would be more cost-effective to balance the fleet and raise its overall efficiency
by contracting with established dealers the provision and installation of adequate engines in 18
graders. The Loan Agreement was amended on July 26, 1988 to provide Bank financing for
acquisition of parts for a program to repair road maintenance equipment. However, it was
through another amendment dated October 16, 1989 that the corresponding disbursement
category was created in Schedule 1 to finance 100% of foreign expenditures incurred in respect
of the road equipment repair program. This new amendment overlooked the fact that imported
goods are usually purchased "off the shelf" in the local market rather than imported directly.
Hence, the Loan Agreement was amended again on June 29, 1990, to allow Bank financing of
90% for local expenditures under the road equipment repair program. These delays would have
hampered the carrying out of the repair program if FNCV had not appropriated additional
resources from its ordinary budget to support it. Between 1989-1992 about 43 road maintenance
units were repaired under a program US$0.9 million worth, though only US$0.3 million were
actually financed out of the loan proceeds.
16.  In addition, on July 26, 1988 the Loan Agreement was also amended in respect of the
Project description to (1) delete the acquisition and utilization of a helicopter and laboratory
equipment, and (2) include a program to upgrade the radio communications system. At that
time, the amendment further comprised a revision of the dates for compliance with certain
covenants and the list of departments selected for the Departmental Roads Study, and a
procurement change so as to allow direct contracting of equipment repairs not exceeding the
aggregate amount of US$300,000. The helicopter was deemed unnecessary with the contracting
out of the supervision of road works, an activity previously carried out by force account, and
the greater involvement of FNCV's 25 regional offices, whose strengthening was being
conceived as part of the preparation of the follow-on Second Rural Roads Sector Project to adapt
the institution to the country's decentralization policy. The increased contracting out of
supervision services and successful use of the engineering departments of many universities
reduced the need of in-house laboratory equipment.
17.   Variances in the Implementation. Most of the variances between planned and actual
implementation resulted from the need to tailor the execution of the project to evolving
conditions. These variances were introduced with the concurrence of the Bank, and in general



were advantageous (i.e., speeding up the execution of the project, incorporating a road
equipment repair program, increasing the contracting out of work supervision services, etc).
Other undesired variances included (1) the delayed implementation of some key components of
the technical assistance program, (2) the phasing out of the waterways pilot component, and (3)
the delayed and incomplete execution of the Departmental Roads Study.
18.   The project called for a quick start of the institutional strengthening program, particularly
the road maintenance management system (MMS) component, which was expected to have a
great impact in the efficiency of FNCV's operations (para 15). However the consultants were
not recruited until December 1987, one year later than planned. This delay was caused in part
because FNCV had very little experience in hiring foreign consultants, and its management was
more committed to the carrying out of the investment components of the project.  The
development of the MMS and its implementation in the first pilot maintenance districts took also
longer than originally anticipated. Though with delay, the MMS was successfully implemented
by 1990. The fine tuning of the system and further training of FNCV staff was achieved in
1991 with the help of local consultants financed under the follow-on Second Rural Roads
Project.
19.   The waterways component was included in the project on a trial basis, with the execution
of phase two of the program contingent upon satisfactory experience under phase one. Local
communities in the region had, in the past, dug a number of rudimentary canals on an artisan
scale. Though in use, the canals needed to be scoured and rehabilitated to modest engineering
standards. FNCV wanted to continue the labor-intensive excavation methods used in the past,
since they were deemed as appropriate means to fight poverty in those poor coastal communities;
but these methods were ineffective to complete the excavation of the canals to the design levels.
This would require the use of dredgers, but FNCV neither purchased the dredger needed
(MOPT's dredgers were too large for the works) nor contracted out the works. As a result,
progress in the implementation of the pilot program was extremely slow and the excavation
works costly. The program was also very demanding in terms of work supervision and canals
maintenance. A small unit was established in Guapi (Cauca) to manage the program, but the
unit lacked the support needed from headquarters. The disposal of waterlogged materials in
brackish water required choosing the proper places to avoid adverse environmental impacts,
which often were too far for labor-based transport methods. Canals necessitated continued
maintenance to remove sediments brought by tide reflux, hence a well organized maintenance
crew to promptly carry out the work. The pilot program was finally phased out in 1990, after
partially completing excavation through the Pico y Pala program of about 11.2 km of waterways
(though fully achieving the design level in only one canal 0.5 km long), and investing nearly
35 % of the funds estimated for the entire program. The follow on Second Rural Roads Sector
Project includes completion of only 2 km of canals which were under construction in 1990.
20.   The Departmental Roads Study was carried out after major delays only in three of the
five departments. Finalizing the financing arrangements proved to be much more complex than
anticipated because of FONADE's reluctance to fully fund the study and the number of
institutions that finally were involved. After protracted discussions, it was agreed that FONADE



- 8 -
and FNCV would each finance 25 % of the cost of the study, while the participant departments
would contribute the remaining 50%, using a reimbursable loan from FONADE (indeed only
one department, Antioquia, contributed to the financing of the study). Most of the departments
were reluctant to participate in the study and least of all to contribute towards its cost. The
Loan Agreement was amended on July 26, 1988 (para. iv, 16) to change the list of selected
departments to Antioquia, C6rdoba, Magdalena, Santander, Cundinamarca and Cauca. Despite
Bank supervision missions repeatedly insisted on the need to proceed with the study, the
consultants were not deployed until December 1989, more than three years behind schedule, to
carry out the first phase of the study, which covered the departments of Antioquia, C6rdoba and
Magdalena. The consultants produced a very extensive but rather descriptive report, which
provided technical recommendations on how to improve design and maintenance practices.
Little progress was made in addressing the primary issues, namely, inadequate organization and
unreliable, insufficient sources for road maintenance funding. By the time the executive report
became available --August 1991-- GOC was shaping up a major institutional reform of the
transport sector, following further decentralization policies mandated by Colombia's new
Constitution, that would substantially change the role of the departments in road management.
Finally, based on the lack of interest on the part of the remaining departments (only
Cundinamarca had accepted to contribute with less than 8% of the estimated cost of the study),
and the inadequate timing as well (by then the study had lost most of its value), DNP requested
the Bank to cancel the second phase of the study. The Bank accepted such proposal in view that
specific studies aimed at (1) identifying proper sources of funding for rural and departmental
roads, and (2) building the institutional capacity of the departmental road agencies and
transferring responsibility over national roads to the departments, were part of the on-going
Second Rural Roads Sector Project (Loan 3157-CO) and the Third National Roads Sector Project
(Loan 3453-CO, US$266 million, approved in 1992), respectively.
21.   Actions Affecting Implementation.  During the execution of the project, GOC
introduced new decentralization and co-financing policies with notable impact on the way rural
road subprojects were selected and the works financed (see Boxes 1 and 2). The initial
implementation of these policies certainly entailed administrative and budgetary difficulties that
could had possibly hampered the final completion of the project. FNCV was required to start
co-financing all rural road works from January 1, 1989, using a formula for matching grants.
The formula was developed with the help of consultants financed under the project. However,
the availability of FNCV funds for 1989 became known only at the end of 1988, by which time
all the mayors had their budgets bills approved by their councils and could not include new
provisions for counterpart funds for rural road projects.  This delayed the execution of
cofinanced works scheduled for 1989-90, which actually started late in 1990.
22.   Eventually, FNCV overcame these initial difficulties and successfully managed the risks
associated to the new framework. To support implementation of such policies, FNCV (1)
established new procedures for selecting road works, giving key participation to local
governments, (2) increased deconcentration of administrative functions to its regional offices,
and (3) developed an intense technical assistance program with local governments to prepare
them for participating in the cofinancing scheme and gradually taking over management



-9 -
Box 1
COLOMBIA DECENTRALIZATION AND COFINANCING POLICIES
The legal and financial framework
Colombia initiated its decentralization efforts in 1983 with the passage of a law (Law 14) granting municipalities
greater revenue raising powers. Subsequently, in 1986, another law (Law 12) was passed to increase the municipal
share of the national sales tax (IVA) with a formula that explicitly rewards fiscal effort and favors small municipalities,
which typically have low fiscal capacity.
In 1987 a decree (Decree 77) was passed specifying a staggered timetable for transferring responsibilities from central
agencies to municipalities. Construction and maintenance of that part of the country's secondary and tertiary road
networks classified as "municipal" was to become the responsibility of local governments. Furthermore, FNCV was
transformed into a co-financing agency and required to negotiate matching grants arrangements with local governments
for financing of rural road works, though the agency continued executing rural road projects on behalf of the local
governments.
To comply with this regulation, FNCV established by end-1988 a co-financing formula that set down varying
percentage shares for different categories of municipalities based on population differences and the existing formula
for transfer of IVA revenues. The investment selection procedure was also modified to include local/regional pre-
screening and evaluation of subprojects prior to FNCV's selection. The first phase began with the identification of
possible road construction/maintenance subprojects by the local mayor based on requests submitted by his/her
constituency; then, FNCV regional offices were required to put together all these proposals in a draft annual road
investment plan reflecting regional and local priorities, to be approved by a Regional Technical Committee. The
approved plan was then submitted to FNCV's headquarters for final approval.
Yet the new Constitution of August 1991 mandated further decentralization and modernization policies. A decree
(Decree 2171 of 1992) restructured MOPT into a Ministry of Transport responsible for policy making and planning,
created an autonomous agency for management of national roads, and slated FNCV for liquidation by end-1995.
Though its good performance was acknowledge by GOC, FNCV's liquidation was seen as a clear sign of GOC's
intention to pursue full decentralization, as mandated by the Constitution. Lately, legislation introduced in 1993
(Transport Law) passed on to the departments responsibility over a substantial part of the national road network,
including rural roads under FNCV's jurisdiction, and substituted block grants to the departments for the matching
grants to municipalities, establishing a new Road Cofinancing Fund; the departments, in turn, are required to make
ad-hoc arrangements for co-financing with their municipalities.
Fiscal decentralization was accompanied by political decentralization, with a 1986 law (Law 78) requiring that
municipal mayors who were appointed by department governors henceforth be elected by their citizens; the first
elections were held in March 1988. The new Constitution of 1991 carried popular rule one step further by authorizing
the direct election of governors, who were formerly appointed by the central government.
responsibilities for road maintenance. These goals, together with implementation of a functional
classification and inventory of all road networks other than national, are being pursued with the
help of the follow-on Rural Roads Sector Project. So far, cofinancing has proven to be quite
positive, and a cornerstone to this success has been the sense of ownership that local
governments have developed as a result of sharing the cost of the works, no matter how low this
share has been.
23.    Another positive factor was the increased  environmental awareness that emerged  in
Colombia during the implementation of the project. Long-standing regulations dating from 1974



- 10-
Box 2
COLOMBIA DECENTRALIZATION AND COFINANCING POLICIES
Their impact on project implementation
*     Response to local needs. Direct participation of local governments and NGOs in the identification of
candidate projects, and coordination with the Regional Planning Councils (the CORPES) have made the
selection process more responsive to local needs. Municipalities agree to cofinance only those subprojects
which they perceive are of higher interest for the community or the local government. For better of for
worse, this "veto" power is sometimes exercised to change the scope and/or implementation schedule of a
project.
*     Project monitoring. Local governments have developed a marked sense of ownership because of their direct
participation in the selection and, more importantly, financing of the projects carried out by FNCV. Directly
or through NGOs (i.e., Veedurias Populares), they have been actively involved in overseeing project
execution. Deconcentration of responsibilities to FNCV's regional offices has also improved work
supervision.
*     Environmental awareness. Local governments have been very keen in detecting environmental problems and
exercising their police right to stop the works until the appropriate mitigatory actions are undertaken.
Unfortunately, local governments do not carry out preliminary environmental assessments to screen
subprojects.
*     Planning and budgeting processes. Preparation of FNCV's budget requires reaching an agreement with local
goverments on the list of projects to be cofinanced and specific contributions to be made (in monies for
works contracted out and in kind for force account works). This has been a demanding task for FNCV,
which required key participation of its regional offices. Newly elected majors often want to review the
priorities agreed with FNCV by previous administrations. In general, majors are reluctant to grouping works
that cover more than one local jurisdiction. Many agencies are involved in the preparation of the budget.
*     Procurement. Most of the local govermnents have had financial difficulties in making the funds available
in a timely manner, despite the very low cofinancing percentages required by FNCV (from about 1 to 15%
for the majority of the municipalities). This has caused delays in procuring the works;
*     Jurisdiction control. Many local governments have required that FNCV undertake additional works on roads
other than those strictly under its jurisdiction, in order to agree on the investments to be cofinanced. While
this reflects the priorities assigned by local governments to the road network in their area (independently of
jurisdiction), it forced FNCV to disperse its resources over an increasingly expanded road network.
*     Framework for road maintenance planning. Local governments are more interested in cofinancing
rehabilitation (roads in poor condition) rather than maintenance works. The 1987 legislation passed on to
local governments responsibility for rural road maintenance, but only some municipalities have effectively
assumed such responsibility (most of them rely on FNCV to keep rural roads in operating conditions). The
continuous expansion of the rural road network to be attended by PNCV (see above), hampers planning of
adequate maintenance standards throughout the network, and in turn, since FNCV lacks the resources needed
to serve alone such network, achieving sustainable network-wide maintenance.
(Code of Natural Resources) required that an environmental study be carried out prior to any
action likely to cause deterioration of natural resources or the environment. Rather than carrying
out such studies (which are costly because of their broad scope, as defined by INDERENA),
FNCV chose in the past to design construction of roads avoiding to the extent possible



- 11 -
environmentally sensitive areas. Environmental considerations were not linked to the economic
evaluation and selection procedures agreed with the Bank under the Project.
24. It was not until 1988 that a systematic approach was applied to integrate environmental
considerations into the project cycle, establishing an Environmental Unit within FNCV's
Engineering Directorate as well as guidelines for environmental screening of road subprojects.
These guidelines, which were developed with the help of the technical assistance component
financed under the Project, provided an analytical framework to assess the environmental risks
associated to a particular road project. Since 1989, FNCV has consistently contracted out to
consultants the execution of environmental assessments studies and mitigatory plans, and
submitted them to INDERENA for approval. Getting an environmental license, however, has
often taken longer than desired due to (1) poor quality of the first environmental studies, which
necessitated further reviews, and (2) lack of resources for INDERENA to discharge its functions
in a timely manner. FNCV completed environmental assessments studies for 30 subprojects out
of the 133 subprojects undertaken under the project. Under the Second Rural Roads Sector
Project, FNCV has established more stringent procedures for environmental screening,
preparation of mitigatory plans and supervision of environmental control measures during work
execution; a basic economic-environmental evaluation is conducted for each road construction
and improvement subproject selected for financing under the project.
25.   Possible avoidance of variances. The delays in implementing the technical assistance
component and the Departmental Roads Study could have been avoided with firmer commitment
and support from FNCV, DNP and FONADE. Regarding the latter, a clearer and up-front
definition of the financing arrangements could have helped. Nevertheless, by the time the study
findings became available, GOC was amidst a major reform of the transport sector, including
devolution of a large portion of the national roads to the departments, and was not yet clear what
role the departments would play in this process.
26.   Recognizing FNCV's lack of experience with waterways --it had been included in the
project on a trial basis, the outcome of the waterways component could have been better had its
preparation not underestimated organizational requirements and construction costs.  The
execution of the program hinged on an ad-hoc, small unit within FNCV's Engineering
Directorate, staffed with an engineer experienced in dredging operations but poorly supported
in the field. This was not enough to carry out the pilot program efficiently, and much less to
mobilize the support and resources needed within an organization exclusively dedicated to road
works. But more importantly, the design of the program overlooked the fact that for the
program to achieve its goals it was necessary to move away from the labor-intensive construction
techniques, which were not only extremely costly but inappropriate for achieving the design
excavation levels. This represented a conflict of interest for FNCV, who was very supportive
of these community programs. In retrospect, being a pilot program, it should have not been
stated as one of the development objectives of the Project.



- 12 -
F.    Project Results
27.   Project Objectives. In retrospect, the project met its intended objectives. As noted in
Part II of this report, the Project effectively contributed to (1) developing agriculture and
integrating less developed areas into the mainstream economy, (2) improving the efficiency and
reducing costs of rural transport, and (3) upgrading subsector management through improving
the institutional performance of FNCV. The Project provided the foundations for implementing
key subsector policies and addressing institutional issues with notable impact on the effectiveness
and efficiency of FNCV's operations.  FNCV shifted its investment priorities from  new
construction to a more balanced program with increased emphasis on maintenance and
improvement of the existing rural roads network. Key steps to improving FNCV's institutional
performance were the decisions made at various stages of project implementation to (1) contract
out most detailed engineering and works supervision to local consulting firms, (2) establish a
Maintenance Division to plan and coordinate all maintenance activities, (3) establish an
Environmental Unit to monitor compliance with environmental regulations, and (4) strengthen
its regional offices to provide better coordination between headquarters and field activities.
28.    The objective of developing more efficient conditions for small-scale water transportation
in the Pacific coastal region, however, was not attained.  Indeed, the physical results
accomplished through the waterways pilot program were poor; but its implementation contributed
to deriving basic lessons for the future (para. 19, 38), which perhaps is more relevant taking into
account that it was a pilot experience.
29.   Physical Results. The actual total project cost was about US$118.7 million, which is
within the appraisal estimate range when physical and price contingencies are added to base
costs. The notable acceleration of the project implementation schedule between 1987-1989
resulted in cost savings that allowed FNCV to surpass the physical targets agreed at appraisal,
with the sole exception of the waterways component (para. 12, 19). The Project contributed to
achieving the following results:
a)    expanding the rural road network through construction of about 1,160 km (or
45 % above appraisal estimate) of new rural roads. All construction subprojects
yielded an economic rate of return greater than 12 % (around 29 % on the average)
and complied with at least one of the following conditions: (1) link two existing
roads, (2) link two population centers, (3) link a population center to a
community, and (4) link a rural road with another transport mode;
b)    bringing up to a maintainable standard, through deferred maintenance, about
1,050 km (or 31 % above appraisal estimate) of roads. These subprojects were
selected using the same criteria mentioned above. Though in the economic
screening analyses deferred maintenance subprojects yielded economic rates of
return significantly higher than those estimated for construction subprojects (about
44% on the average), the ex-post analysis of a sample of subprojects suggests



- 13 -
much closer results, in part because the physical targets initially set for deferred
maintenance subprojects were often changed during the implementation phase;
c)    improving the condition of the road network through periodic maintenance of
about 5,740 km carried out by contractors (or 15% above appraisal estimate).
This effort was complemented with (1) the force account programs carried out
with FNCV's own resources, which on the average provided periodic
maintenance to about 1,600 km per year and routine maintenance to about 4,000
km per year, (2) the Peon Caminero program, which between 1986-1990
provided labor-intensive routine maintenance to 5,600 km, and (3) a program
sponsored by PNR-FNCV, which in 1990 transferred resources to local
governments for routine maintenance of about 3,000 km;
d)    though on a very limited scale, improving cabotage and navigation safety in the
Cauca Region through partial construction and rehabilitation of about 11 km (or
18% of the appraisal estimate) of channels under the waterways pilot program.
Although the intended excavation levels were only achieved in one channel 0.5
km long (the Currupi channel), the remaining channels still allow small seafaring
crafts to make use of protected waters instead of venturing out to the open sea at
least 40% of the day (depending on coastal tides);
e)    equipping FNCV's maintenance fleets through acquisition of: (1) a total of 208
equipment units (or 15% above appraisal), consisting of dump trucks, lubricating
and workshop trucks and four-wheel drive vehicles.  Bulldozers originally
included in the appraisal list were not purchased in line with the adopted policy
of giving more emphasis to road maintenance rather than construction; and (2)
parts for repair of about 30 graders, 8 front loaders and 5 vibratory rollers under
the equipment rehabilitation program initiated in 1989. The repair program
continued under the follow on project.  Both programs enabled FNCV to
rationalize its maintenance fleet and complete equipping its force account
brigades; and
f)    improving the efficiency of FNCV's management practices through acquisition
of (1) a radio and telecommunications equipment, and (2) about 80 micro-
computers, printers and other office support equipment.  These pieces of
equipment were installed and put into operation in FNCV's headquarters and
regional offices.
30.   Institutional Aspects. With a few exceptions (para. 31), the goals under the institutional
strengthening program were attained. As a result, FNCV now relies on more technical, well-
established procedures and computerized information systems to manage its day-to-day
operations. Development of these systems was initiated through the technical assistance for
institutional efficiency improvement, and their final implementation pursued through continued
participation of FNCV's staff, who building on the experience gained in their actual application



- 14 -
and supported by experts financed under the Second Rural Roads Sector Project, effectively
contributed to reviewing and upgrading the systems. The institutional strengthening component
of the Project contributed to achieving the following results:
a)    developing improved planning, programming, and budgeting procedures, and
implementing a data bank for rural road projects within FNCV's Planning Office
(PO). The consultants upgraded the producer's surplus method used for economic
justification of road subprojects by incorporating regional socio economic data
and more quantitative and efficiency-based selection criteria. PO applied this
method to screen and appraise all construction and deferred maintenance
subprojects initiated under the follow-on Second Rural Roads Sector Project, and
to carry out an ex-post evaluation of a representative sample of 25 subprojects
completed under the Project. While this planning system performs well at the
"project level", FNCV has yet to strengthen its planning capacity at the "network
level";
b)    upgrading road design practices. With the help of consultants, FNCV set realistic
design standards, conveniently tailored to the various topographic conditions and
future use of the roads. The terms of reference for engineering studies were also
upgraded, particularly by including a preliminary evaluation phase to analyze
possible alternative routes before defining the final road alignment. Though there
is still room for improvement, both aspects have contributed to lowering
construction costs and long-term maintenance requirements;
c)    streamlining contract administration and work supervision practices. Through the
use of computerized systems and improved organization, FNCV cut by half the
time needed to complete bidding and contracting under LCB procedures. Quality
and management of works have improved since work supervision is contracted
out to local consulting firms under guidelines established through the technical
assistance program;
d)    establishing a rural roads inventory. This computerized road inventory system,
which was implemented for the first time in 1988, gives physical details of all
rural roads under FNCV's jurisdiction and estimates the work to be done to
provide an adequate level of service;
e)   implementing throughout FNCV's regional offices a Maintenance Management
System (MMS). The system makes use of the rural road inventory to assist in
preparing annual, performance-based maintenance plans, defining maintenance
standards, and monitoring force account works. The system has been adjusted
to the specific needs of the cofinancing procedures; and
f)   implementing, though partially, an equipment management system (EMS). The
inventory of equipment units has been implemented throughout FNCV's regional



- 15 -
offices. The system, however, is being revised to improve control of preventive
and corrective maintenance activities.
31.   The technical assistance program failed to improve FNCV's accounting and internal
control systems. The consultant's efforts were undermined in part by the lack of support and
high turnover of staff assigned to FNCV's accounting department. As demonstrated by the
Audit Reports prepared by the Office of the Comptroller General (CGR), this area remained
weak throughout project implementation. The auditors found deficiencies in FNCV's accounts
that although they did not mean misuse of project funds, led to qualified and adverse opinions
on its Financial Statements. FNCV is undertaking specific actions to correct these deficiencies
in the context of the implementation of the Second Rural Roads Sector Project. The strategy
being followed includes (1) putting together a team of accountants to check the accounting
archives, correct faulty accounting entries, and clear all the deficiencies pointed out by CGR,
(2) strengthening FNCV's accounting department at headquarters and regional offices through
appointment of experienced staff, (3) upgrading the accounting system, and (4) establishing
internal control procedures to audit central and regional operations.
G.   Project Sustainability
32.   In the short run, the sustainability of the elements of the Project is being assured because
FNCV is fully committed to pursuing the institutional efficiency goals achieved under the
project. In addition, the on-going Second Rural Roads Sector Project provides continuity for
the investment strategy and institutional efficiency advances initiated under the project. The
main objectives pursued under this follow on project are to assist FNCV in putting in place a
better, precisely defined institutional framework for implementation of the decentralized
decision-making policies in the rural sector, as mandated by the 1988 legislation, and in
ensuring, over a realistic time frame, satisfactory deconcentration of road maintenance and
investment programming responsibilities, coordination and resource mobilization between
agencies at different administrative levels. This on-going project is contributing to the financing
of a well balanced four-year investment and maintenance program. It also sets specific targets,
with monitorable indicators of work output, for force account routine and periodic maintenance
activities that are being carried out with FNCV's own resources.
33.   In the long run, however, the sustainability of the project is uncertain due to the
liquidation of FNCV by the end of 1995, as mandated by decree 2171 of 1992 (see Box 1). The
benefits obtained through construction, improvement and maintenance of a large number of rural
roads funded by the project may be lost in the future if departments and local governments do
not effectively take responsibility for achieving sustainable maintenance of rural roads. Building
the capacity of departments and local governments to plan, organize and deliver maintenance
services will take time and demand substantial efforts in technical assistance, since most of them
are very weak.



- 16 -
34.   Slowly, GOC is making progress in pursuing the decentralization of the road sector, and
a variety of efforts aimed at making the transition as smooth as possible are underway. FNCV
is currently supporting the transfer of its know-how to departments and local governments
through a series of seminars, training programs and technical assistance financed under the on-
going Loan 3157-CO. Part of FNCV's staff in both regional offices and headquarters is being
recruited by departmental road agencies and the Ministry of Transport. In this sense, the
phasing out of FNCV does not necessarily mean that the benefits obtained through the
institutional efficiency improvement program will be lost, but certainly entails high risks and the
three-year time frame may prove too short for passing on to departments and municipalities
FNCV's experience. On the financial side, Loan 3157-CO is also financing a study on road
funding strategies, which will identify possible sources of funding for departments and local
governments to establish a sound, sustainable policy for road development and expansion at the
regional and local levels, consistent with the additional burden that will result from the
devolution of national roads. FNCV's experience in rural roads cofinancing is also helping GOC
to set the rules under which the recently established Road Cofinancing Fund will operate,
especially to ensure that they give the correct incentives to prevent any shifting of priorities from
maintenance to expansion of the road network. Another Bank on-going project, the Third
National Roads Sector Project, is helping the Ministry of Transport to put in place a revised road
functional classification and develop proper models for departments to restructure their road
agencies and deliver road services under improved coordination with local governments. At time
of preparation of this report it is too soon to assess the outcome of the decentralization process.
H.   Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
35.   Preparation and Appraisal. The project's scope was appropriate for the country's
needs. The SAR clearly identified the risks associated to the project (timely availability of
counterpart funds, slow  implementation of institution-building measures, and FNCV's
inexperience with waterways construction) and provided mechanisms to deal with them. The
project did not face the difficulties in obtaining adequate and timely counterpart funds
experienced during the last four years of implementation of the previous Rural Road Project,
because of the high priority assigned to the project by GOC rather than the specific arrangements
included in the project (use of a Project Account). A new administration took office in August
1990 and imposed tighter constraints to FNCV's budget. Strict monitoring proved effective in
dealing with the initially slow implementation of the measures to improve the institutional
efficiency of FNCV, and helping FNCV's management to develop a strong commitment to its
objectives as well. The project's successful implementation was predicated on the assumption
that the recommended institutional improvements would be made in a timely manner. The
original institution building schedule, however, was overly optimistic viz a viz the technical
assistance's scope, its impact on work practices, and the lack of experience of FNCV in handling
complex consultancy services. FNCV's relative inexperience with construction and rehabilitation
of minor waterways could not be dealt with strict monitoring in the absence of a well-defined
framework for implementation of this pilot component. Preparation overlooked the technical and



- 17 -
organizational issues related to the execution --and sustainable maintenance-- of the waterways
component.
36.   Supervision. Project supervision was carried out efficiently, closely linked since 1989
with preparation and supervision of the on-going Second Rural Roads Sector. Supervision took
about 57 staff weeks during the six-year implementation period from end-1986 to end-1992.
Fourteen supervisory missions visited Colombia. The missions comprised transport economists
and highway engineers traveling either in teams or individually. At the beginning, the project's
overall performance was rated 2, on a scale 1 to 4, denoting moderate problems due to a slow
start (which resulted from the enter of a new administration in August 1986). Subsequent
missions rated the project in general as 1, denoting no significant problems. It was not until late
1991 that more emphasis was given to addressing FNCV's accounting deficiencies and a
financial analyst incorporated to the project's supervision.
37.   Bank supervision reacted swiftly to changing situations and emerging priorities. In 1988
the Bank agreed to GOC's proposal for financing road construction and improvement works in
designated areas of PNR under an accelerated project implementation schedule (though the Bank
judged overly ambitious the proposed project completion date, 1990). Overall, this proved to
be a right decision: the project became an efficient vehicle for helping GOC achieve the overall
rural transport objectives of the PNR, and the fact that most of the reformulated investments
were undertaken in PNR areas did not hinder the economic yield of the project (economic rates
of return of PNR-subprojects compare reasonable well with those in non-PNR areas); the project
also enjoyed a high priority in GOC's investment strategy and, thus, sufficient counterpart
funding. Also, key to the success of the project was the strong emphasis placed by Bank
supervision missions between 1988 and 1989 on the need to complete the implementation of the
maintenance management systems designed by the technical assistance.
38.   The outcome of the waterways pilot program, however, could have been better had the
Bank assessed more carefully the implications of continuing with the labor-intensive construction
methods at an early stage of implementation. The reformulation of the project led to a
substantial reduction of this component and spurred FNCV to concentrate its attention on the
road components which could be implemented more expeditiously.
39.   The Bank repeatedly urged DNP to recruit consultants for the Departmental Roads study,
but with little success because of the complex financing arrangements and, more importantly,
the lack of interest of the various institutions involved. Efforts to follow up on the study's
findings were certainly hampered by the fact that GOC was designing a major institutional
reform of the transport sector. At that stage GOC was not clear on how to proceed with road
decentralization and what role departments would play in this process. In this context, the Bank
preferred to wait and pursue this objective through other studies included in follow-on operations
(Second Rural Roads Sector and Third National Roads Sector), which could be tailored to
support specific financing and institutional aspects of the reform and, hence, gain the necessary
commitment and support from GOC.



- 18 -
40.   Though Bank missions made frequent field trips to assess the quality of on-going works
carried out either by contract or by force account, the scope of these visits were necessarily
limited because the works were scattered throughout extended areas and access to job sites was
difficult and time-consuming due to the prevailing mountainous topographic conditions and
inherent nature of rural roads (which are usually short and do not connect with each other). The
use of local consultants for field supervision in rural road projects in Colombia should not be
overlooked in the future to ensure that field supervision is carried out in a systematic manner.
41.   Lessons Learned. The project has been a step forward towards establishing a coherent
rural road strategy. The first Bank project mainly supported expansion of the rural road
network. The Rural Transport Sector Project effectively contributed to reverting FNCV's trend
for road construction and supporting a more balanced investment program, with emphasis in
bringing up to a maintainable standard, and maintaining, a substantial portion of the rural road
network. However, this is still far from establishing a sustainable rural road maintenance
strategy. The lack of a clear definition of ownership, functions and responsibilities for rural
road maintenance in the past is likely to have contributed greatly to the long neglect of
maintenance on secondary and rural roads. The follow on Second Rural Roads Sector addresses
this issue and places even more emphasis in road maintenance; building on the results achieved
under the institutional efficiency improvement component of the Rural Transport Sector Project,
it set specific targets with monitoreable indicators of output (i.e., performance-based
maintenance programs) to be attained by FNCV.  Nevertheless, a network-wide road
maintenance strategy, especially routine maintenance, still depends on the commitment and
capacity of local governments to deliver basic maintenance. Routine maintenance in rural roads
is quite simple but requires continuity.  In this context, Bank projects should aim  at
implementing (1) appropriate arrangements for timely delivery of routine maintenance by local
governments, (2) a road maintenance strategy for a well-defined "core" rural road network, with
targets to be accomplished and implementation arrangements to be used by all of the
organizations involved, and (3) appropriate mechanisms for the central agency in charge of
developing the strategy to monitor compliance with the programs.
42.   All in all, FNCV's approach for rural road development has been quite successful and
can be used in other Bank rural roads projects, especially when dealing with weak local
governments who lack the capacity to manage projects. The cofinancing scheme implemented
in 1990 proved to be very effective in mobilizing local participation in planning and
implementation of projects and developing a strong sense of ownership in the participant
communities. This partially decentralized model for project planning and implementation comes
closest to the objective of gradually building self-sustaining institutions at the local level through
road programs, and gives the possibility of establishing in one agency a central focal point for
policy and strategy formulation and inter-agency coordination. This agency should have the
capacity, and enjoy the autonomy, needed to address the overall level of funding for rural roads
and the balance between development, improvement and maintenance.



- 19 -
I.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
43.   Borrower Performance.  FNCV's performance has been very satisfactory.  Its
responsibilities grew significantly and became more complex since 1986. Nonetheless, FNCV
was able to manage a comparative large investment program, designed to reach most of the
poorest municipalities of Colombia. In this process, FNCV not only implemented key subsector
policies and upgraded operational procedures with notable impact in the efficiency and
effectiveness of its operations, but also dealt with new decentralization and co-financing policies,
which incorporated local government participation in the planning, programming, budgeting, and
financing of rural roads works. Furthermore, as no mechanisms were in place to effectively
promote and achieve coordination among local and regional governments, other agencies and
FNCV, these were developed by the latter to frame its dialogue and cofinancing of mutually
agreed investment and maintenance activities. FNCV is now assisting local governments in
coping with rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of their own roads. (This, however, has led
to a substantial expansion of the road network served by FNCV, from about 24,500 km in 1985
to about 37,000 km by end-1992).
44.   FNCV's support for the institutional efficiency improvement program grew substantially
during project implementation. At the beginning of the project, it was only marginal since more
priority was given to undertaking the physical investments and procuring the road equipment
needed to carry out its force account program. Despite initial delays, the consultant services
were deployed soon enough to allow completion of their assignments under the project and,
more importantly, pursue implementation of their recommendations.
45.   Lessons learned. Institution building is a long process. It demands strong commitment
from a management who may not remain in place to see the realization of the long-term benefits.
For this reason, it is important that technical assistance programs develop products that can be
immediately applied to day-to-day operations at the early stages of the program, to show their
potential benefits, and, thus, gain management's support. Continuity and participation of the
agency's staff are essential. The three Bank projects helped in providing this continuity. The
involvement of FNCV staff in the design and implementation of the systems and procedures
introduced by the technical assistance has been key to the success of the project's institution-
building component. Indeed, the only areas where the systems could not be implemented were
those that lacked this support (para. 31). The project, together with Loan 3157-CO, has shown
the advantage of teaming staff with seasoned, individual consultants to support full
implementation of the systems and procedures developed through large technical assistance
components, and even upgrade such systems on the basis of the experience obtained through
their actual application.
46.   At this stage, it is difficult to assess how the liquidation of FNCV will impact the
development of rural roads in Colombia, especially in the poorest municipalities.  Some
important lessons can be drawn from the experience gained so far in the decentralization of the
rural roads subsector. The deconcentration of responsibilities and cofinancing schemes that
followed the 1986-1987 legislation provided an interesting set-up to promote local participation



- 20 -
in rural road projects, and certainly have been helpful in preparing local governments for the
devolution of roads and full decentralization of the rural road sector. However, this transition
period has shown how difficult it is to mobilize departments and local governments to take
responsibility for road maintenance. In outlining the decentralization process, priority should
be giving to achieving sustainable maintenance of rural roads. FNCV's experience in this regard
stresses the importance of setting a clear legal framework for road ownership, well-established
funding mechanisms and accountability systems at both departmental and local levels, and
providing adequate technical support (i.e., access to investment planning, engineering and project
design, administrative skills) to enable departments and local governments to carry out projects
more efficiently and deliver routine and periodic maintenance services in a coordinated manner.
47.   The 1993 legislation mandates the transfer of all rural roads under FNCV to the
departments. Though departments will manage the recently created Road Cofinancing Fund,
counterpart funding will likely come from "negotiations" with local governments since
departments lack other sources of funding. This negotiating process may weaken the framework
for implementing a coherent road maintenance strategy (as happens now with FNCV) if
appropriate measures are not undertaken to secure the funds required to attend at least the
maintenance needs of a well-defined "core" road network.
J.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
48.   During the project implementation period (1986-1992), the Bank-Borrower relationship
was appropriate and also productive, as measured by the progress made in accomplishing
implementation of the institution building components. Fruitful discussions between FNCV,
DNP and the Bank contributed to better understanding the framework needed for implementation
of the decentralization and cofinancing policies, which in turn led to preparation of a follow on
project to effectively deal with these issues.
K.   Consulting Services
49.   Most of the consulting services for the project were carried out by local consultant firms.
The technical assistance for institutional efficiency improvement, the core of the institution
building component, was the exception. This assignment was successfully undertaken by an
Israeli consulting firm in joint venture with a local consulting firm. Time constraints, however,
prevented the consultants from expanding the implementation of the Maintenance Management
System from a pilot district to all of the regional offices. This was eventually achieved by
FNCV staff conveniently supplemented by individual consultants with skills in relevant areas.
Also, SENA provided hands-on-training for the administrative and workshop personnel in all
aspects of equipment operations. This training encompassed workshop organization, equipment
operation and management, equipment costing and replacement. The training was effective and
was appreciated by FNCV personnel.



- 21 -
50.   Engineering designs for road construction subprojects were contracted out to local
engineering firms. More than 200 contracts were signed for this purpose. The studies included
an analysis of alternative routes, final selection of the road alignment, work quantity estimates
and identification of road materials sources. To keep costs reasonable, detailed soil investigation
was limited to bridge designs. This resulted in frequent variations in work quantities (especially
earthworks and drainage structures) during construction. FNCV is satisfied with the quality of
the designs produced. Consultancy services for work supervision were provided by eight local
engineering firms. To reduce costs, an issue in rural road work supervision, the roads were
grouped into regional work packages, whose supervision was awarded to a single firm.
Nevertheless, supervision costs were high, averaging 14% of the total cost. FNCV's regional
offices were charged with overseeing both, work execution by local contractors and supervision
by local consultants.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
51.   Data needed for preparation of the PCR were generally available in Bank files, including
the project preparation files, Bank supervision reports, and the quarterly progress reports, all
of which were helpful. Particularly helpful was the final report prepared in 1993 by FNCV on
the execution of the project, which included data on physical results, actual costs, and an ex-post
evaluation of a sample of about 25 road construction and deferred maintenance subprojects.



- 22 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(FNCV completed in 1993 a thorough evaluation of the project's execution. The report, in three
volumes, provides data on the implementation of the various components, analyzes the various
actions that affected such implementation, and includes an ex-post evaluation of a sample of 25
subprojects completed under the project. A translation of the introduction and chapter 7, with
FNCV's conclusions and recommendations is transcribed below)
A.   Introduction
The construction of rural roads is an important factor in the social and economic
development of Colombia's depressed regions. The National Government has consequently
taken a particular interest in implementation of the projects being carried out by FNCV through
its various programs.
The present document offers an ex-post evaluation of Loan 2668-CO, signed by FNCV
and IBRD on May 27, 1986. This loan resulted in the construction and improvement nationwide
of roads that the communities had been wanting for decades.
This ex-post evaluation comprises a review of the aspects related to project preparation
and identification, project implementation, institutional aspects related to FNCV, the
administrative decentralization policy, an economic assessment of a sample of the projects
carried out, and, lastly, a number of conclusions and recommendations intended to serve as
lessons for similar programs.
B.    Conclusions and Recommendations
The loan achieved the social objective identified in the appraisal report, namely the
provision of support for the agricultural sector, especially for small farmers. The works
constructed helped to reduce transportation costs, promoted the opening up of new areas for
cultivation, increased staple crop yields, and basically contributed to an improvement in the
quality of life of the inhabitants settled in the target regions.
Generally speaking, the quality of the accepted works was good. The roads visited for
the sample were mostly in good condition. For some of them, however, periodic or routine
maintenance is essential if they are to continue to provide satisfactory service.
The investment in these projects enabled the Government to intervene in other fields,
such as education, health, water supply and electrification, resulting in a decline in the number
of basic needs remaining unfulfilled. Another noteworthy by-product of the construction and/or
improvement of the roads is the increased attention being directed toward the farmers by the
technical assistance agencies as certain areas become more accessible.



- 23 -
It was noted in the ex-post evaluation that the farmers are availing themselves more of
credit facilities, boosting their agricultural and/or livestock activities by expanding their areas
of production or introducing mechanical means of cultivation.
Collection centers and farmer associations (Juntas de Acci6n Comunal y Cooperativas)
have now been set up in the areas of influence of some of these projects; these make for greater
coordination of activities and improved conditions of cohabitation within the area concerned, all
of which favors the creation of a propitious development climate.
One of the major benefits resulting from the opening up of these roads is the reduction
in transportation costs as the transition is made from mule-drawn carts to motorized vehicles,
which leaves the farmer with a larger profit margin.
It was found that despite the fact that some roads were to have been improved, there
were many cases where the people were still cut off, since the roads remained in a rudimentary
state, unsurfaced, without any structural works. Consequently, they were unsuitable for the
regular passage of vehicular traffic and it was necessary to continue to use animal-drawn means
to move both passengers and produce.
Those roads that were improved can now be used by passenger vehicles and trucks on
a year-round and regular basis; this implies a reduction not only in transportation costs but also
in trip lengths, enabling the farmers to get their products to market in good time.
The lowering of transportation costs has enabled farmers to turn a profit and to improve
their living conditions, since in most cases they use the surplus proceeds to purchase market
basket staples, including items new to the local communities, such as cleaning products.
The construction of new roads or rehabilitation of existing ones has made it possible to
embark on other basic infrastructure projects such as electrification, one of the services most
sought-after by the members of the community, since it enables them to purchase and refrigerate
perishable products different from those produced locally. Electricity is also used to run fans
in areas with a very hot climate.
It has likewise brought to the people such means of communication as radio and
television. This has helped to raise the people's self-esteem, since with permanent access to
news of happenings in their own country and in the rest of the world they become more plugged
in to sentiments of solidarity, acceptance and/or rejection, and can form their own opinions
without feeling that they are being manipulated. In regions that are not yet electrified, access
to such multiple sources of information is still not possible, and people's opinions continue to
be manipulated by those members of the community who have contact with the more developed
regions, and who pass on by word of mouth the news of events in Colombia and in the rest of
the world, often coloring their information with their own personal views.



- 24 -
Despite the fact that the loan objectives did not provide for attention to the environmental
component in the road projects, and being Colombia one of the countries of the world with the
greatest biodiversity, care was taken to comply with the country's environmental legislation and
with sustainable development criteria. In future projects of this type, these aspects should be
included in the loan conditions. In addition, the fact that there were certain "improvement"
projects that required environmental impact assessments and mitigatory plans, means that the
environmental protection was done in a "curative" way, i.e. after the initial execution of the road
where the improvements are carried out, whereas it is recommended that the protection be
"preventive". This means that in the future, an evaluation of the environmental impact of the
projects should be done at the pre-investment stage, when the technical standards and economic
viability criteria for the projects are formulated, and the approval of the projects made
conditional upon the outcome of the environmental assessment. Furthermore, if any possible
adverse impact is found later at the implementation stage, bidding for those projects should be
arranged so that the execution of the environmental management plan or impact assessment are
part of the contract or awarded at the same time.
The results of the ex-post evaluation of the project sample show that all the roads
evaluated continued to show an acceptable rate of return, although some of them turned out to
be less attractive than had been hoped.
To sum up, the program is complying with the objectives set, generating social and
economic development in its areas of influence, to the benefit of the social economy.
For successful loan implementation, it is important that unity of opinion be established
among all those involved in project administration, development and/or implementation, so that
what is relevant for one is also relevant for all, without losing sight of the differences existing
in the different areas.
Prior to project implementation, it is essential that the executing agency set up reliable
information systems that can be accessed as needed.
To ensure adequate supervision of the management and development of a loan, it is
essential to establish prior to its implementation those supervision mechanisms that will enable
the executing agency to keep track of the regularity and effectiveness of the procedures it has
to follow; not only as regards execution of the works themselves, but also with respect to the
related administrative procedures in the areas of contracting, procurement, accounts and
payments control, debt service and in general all project-related activities for which the agency
is responsible.
To improve the greater reliability of the results of an ex-post evaluation, it is essential
to allow adequate time to pass between completion of the actual works and the actual generation
of any benefits resulting from the investment, thereby reducing margins of error when the
bottom line is finally drawn.



- 25 -
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Loans
Proiect Name                 Purpose              |  Year  J   Saus   J         Comments 
I                         I appr~~~~~.ovedlll
FNCV                Rural Roads Sector
(First) Rural   Support FNCV's 1981-84 Program for   March    Completed   US$33.0 million.
Roads Project   rural roads construction and          1981     Jun-1986   Fully disbursed.
1966-CO      rehabilitation and improve FNCV's
managerial performance.
Rural Transport  Support FNCV's 1986-92 Investment    July      Completed   US$62 million.
Sector Project   and Maintenance Program and          1986      Dec-92    Fully disbursed.
2668-CO      improve FNCV's institutional
efficiency.
Second Rural   Support FNCVs 1990-1993 program,   Novem.          In       US$55 million. As
Roads Sector   define road management functions,     1989      progress   of end-Feb. 1994,
Project     implement key policies in the rural                         the loan is 61 %
3157-CO      roads sector (decentralization to local                     disbursed. Closing
governments).                                              date Dec-1995.
MOPT                  Hikhwav Sector
(First) Highway   Upgrade the transport system, adjust  April    Completed   US$152.3 million.
Sector Project   sector policies, strengthen MOPT's   1982     Dec-1988   98% disbursed.
2121-CO      highway management capacity.
Second National  Improve MOPT's internal efficiency,  June      Completed   US$180.3 million.
Highways      implement policy reforms in the       1987     Dec-1993   As of end-Feb. 1994,
Sector Project  transport sector, and upgrade the                          99.8% disbursed.
2829-CO      condition of the highway network.
Third National  Reduce cost of transport, improve    March        In       US$266 million. As
Roads Sector   project preparation capacity within   1992      progress   of end-Feb. 1994,
Project      MOPT, and implement a rollingfive-                         25 % disbursed.
3453-CO      year investment plan.                                       Clos.Date: Jun-1997
DRI                 Agriculture Sector
2nd Integrated   Provided financing for construction of    June  Completed   US$53 million.
Rural Develop.  about 700 km of rural roads and       1982       Jun-90    82% disbursed.
Project     improvement of 400 km. FNCV
2174-CO      carried out the rural roads component
for the Integrated Rural Development
Fund (DRI).



- 26 -
2.     Project Timetable
Benchmark                 Date                    Date                    Date
Identification                                                             September 1982
Preparation Mission                                                          1984, 1985
Appraisal Mission             July 1985       __July 1985
Loan Negotiations          December 1985                 -                February 11, 1986
Board Approval             March 25, 1986                -                 March 25, 1986
Loan Signature              May 27, 1986      __May 27, 1986
Loan Effectiveness          July 11, 1986     __July 11, 1986
Project Completion          June 30, 1992                -               December 31, 1992
Loan Closing             December 31, 1992                               December 31, 1992
(a)  In 1987 the Bank approved an accelerated project implementation schedule which intended to complete all
project works by end-1990, but the Project Completion and Loan Closing dates were notformally revised
in the Loan Agreement.
3.     Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY             87        88         89       90         91         92        93
Appraisal              6.0        16.0      28.5      40.5      51.1       58.7       62.0
Actual                 4.02(a)    20. 41'   41.*7f    53.7      59.3       60.0       62.0(
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate     67.0       127.5    146.4    132.6    116.0        102.1      100.0
(a)  Includes deposit of US$4.0 million in Special Account.
'    Includes deposit of US$2.0 million in Special Account.
"'  Includes deposit of US$3.0 million in Special Account.
(d)   The final disbursement was made on May, 13 1993.



- 27 -
4.      Project Implementation
|o   ADraisal        ARcvisedc J        Atual
A. Investment
1) Civil Works                                           (Kmn)            (Km)             (Km)
- Rural Roads Construction                             800              1,219            1,164
- Rural Roads Deferred Maintenance (Improvements)      800              1,049            1,002
- Rural Roads Periodic Maintenance (Project financed)  5,000            4,170            5, 742
- Waterways Construction and Rehabilitation             60                7               IIb)
Total Project:                                        6,660             6,445            7,919
2) Goods                                              (No. Units)       (No. Units)     (No. Units)
- Acquisition of Road Equipment
(i) Dump trucks:                                      90              135              135
(ii) Small Bulldozers                                20                 -                -
(iii) Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                      32                51               51
(iv) Lubricating Trucks                              24                26               26
(v)  Workshop Trucks                                  4                6                6
Total Road Equipment Units:                          180              208              208
- Acquisition of Computers/Office Support Equipment   Global           Global           Global
- Acquisition of an Helicopter"b)                       I                 (C)                       l
- Acquisition of Laboratory Equipmene                Global             Jc)               -
- Acquisition of Radio Communications Equipment)       N.A.             108(4             108
3) Road Equipment Repaire')                           (No. Units)       (No. Units)     (No. Units)
- Acquisition of parts for the equipment repair program
(i)  Graders                                                            18               30
(ii) Front Loaders                                                      -                8
(iii) Vibratory Rollers                                                 -                S
Total Units Repaired:                                 -                18               43
B. Institutional Efficiency Improvement
1) Develop technical capacity of the Planning Office  Technical Ass.    Consultants      Criteria for
Planning Office   hired Dec-1986.    economic
Further assist.    evaluation of
provided in 1989   roads and an
in cofinancing &   investment data
decentralization   bank fully
implemented.
2) Implement a rural roads maintenance management and    Techn. Ass. in  Consultants   MMS and EMS
equipment management systems and strengthen contract   Rd.Maintenance   hired Nov-1987.  fully implemen.
administration and work supervision practices in the  work supervision   A Maintenance    Road inventory
Engineering Department                                  and          Division was       upgraded.
computerization    created in the  Reg. offices
Engineering       and work
Directorate      supervision
strengthened.
3) Develop on-the-job training for FNCV's staff      Training courses                   Local courses
and fellowships                   and training in
in Colombia and                     USA, Mexico
abroad.                          and Spain.



- 28 -
C. Departmental Roads Maintenance Studv
Evaluate the maintenance needs of roads in five selected   Study to be        The list of       Carried out
departments and propose a plan of action for organizing   financed by          selected        with delay in
the delivery of maintenance services.                     FONADE and         departments        only three
supervised by      modified on      departments.
DNP            July 26, 1988    Action plan not
____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ____ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  p rep ared .
Notes:
0)  Revised as of October 16, 1989.
   Excavation completed through the Pico v Pala program; though the design depth was only achieved in one canal 0.5
km long, the canals are in service at about 40% of their capacity.
(c)  Eliminated from the Project through amendment of July 26, 1988.
(d)  Added to the Project through amendment of July 26, 1988. The Category for equipment repair was created in Schedule
I to the Loan Agreement through amendment of October 16, 1989.
5.      Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimare("               Revtsed")                       Acjual
C5eon                 For.            % of           For.            % of           For.            % of
Local  Exch            Total  Local  Exch            Total   Local  Exch             Total
Cost   Cost   Total   Cost   Cost   Cost   Total   Coss   Cost   Cost   Total   Cost
1. Works:          38.8   38.3   77.1   68.5   54.0   54.0   108.0   92.2   54.3   54.3   108.5   91.4
-Road construc.,
deferred maint.
and watenvays     21.2   23.9   45.1   40.0   35.8   35.8   71.6   61.1   35.7   35.7    71.4    60.2
-Period. znaint.  16.0   12.6   28.6   25.4   14.2   14.2   28.4   24.2   14.8   14.8   29.5    24.9
-Eng. & Superv.    1.6    1.8    3.4    3.0    4.0    4.0    8.0    6.8    3.8    3.8           7.6     6.4
2. Equipment        0.6    6.5    7.1    6.3    0.5    6.6    7.1    6.1    0.4    6.6           7.1     6.0
3. Technical Assist.    0.6    0.4    1.0    0.9    0.6    1.0    1.6    1.4    1.4    0.8    2.2        1.9
-Inst. efficiency  0.3    0.4    0.7    0.6    0.3    1.0    1.3    1.1    1.3    0.8    2.1            1.8
-Departmental
Roads Study (     0.3    0.0    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.0    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.0    0.2            0.2
4. Road Equipment
Repair            0.0    0.o0    0.0    0.       0.1    0.3    0.4    0.3    0.6    0.3        0.9     0.8
5. Base Cost        40.0   45.2   85.2    75.7   55.2   61.9   117.1   99.8       -       -       -       -
Phys. Conting.    3.9    3.8    7.7    6.8    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.2
Price Conting.    6.6    13.0   19.6   17.4       -      -       -       -
6. Total Cost       50.5   62.0   112.5   100    55.3   62.0   117.3   100    56.7   62.0   118.7   100
Percentage        45.0   55.0    100      -      47      53     100      -      48     52      100      -
Notes: Figures may not add up to the total because of rounding.
'0    Costs are base costs.
0'    Revised as of October 16, 1989.
(4    To be financed by FONADE.



- 29 -
B. Project Financing
Planned
(Loan Agreement)    Revisedf'        Final
Source                      USS '0001      (US5'000)       (iJS5000                 Comments
IBRD                                       62 000           6200           62,00
1. Civil Works                            36,500           50,000          50,435
2. Goods                                   6,500            6,590           6,648
3. Institutional Development
3a. Technical Assist. and Training       0,350            1,000            769
3b. Feasibility and Eng. Studies,
and Supervision of civil works         1,800           4,000           3,819
4. Road Equipment Repair                    N.A.             300            330         This category was created
through amendment of 10-16-89
5. Contingencies/Unallocated               16,850            110              -         Reallocated to categories (1),
(3b) and (4)
| Co-financlnR or other externai sources   N.A.             N.A.            N.A.
Dormestic                                  50,500          55,200          56. 720
TOTAL                                     112.500          11 7.300       118.720
"* Revised as of October 16, 1989
6.       Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                       Appraised Estimate                             Estimated @ Closing Date
(a) Rural road construction,    Integrating less developed areas into the  The project's linkage with the PNR contributed to fighting
deferred maintenance,       mainstream economy by:                        poverty in the most depressed areas. Smallfarmers access
periodic and routine         -expanding the rural road network 800 km      to markets improved through (1) construction of about
maintenance                 -bringing up to maintainable standards 800 km  1160 km of new roads, and (2) deferred maintenance of
Reducing transport costs by                   about 1050 km of roads. The project contributed to
-improving the condition of 5000 km of roads  reducing transport costs through periodic maintenance of
about 5740 km. In addition, more than 25000 km received
maintenance through different programs (notfimded by the
Project).
(b) Construction and        Building a rudimentary network of 60 km of small  The project contributed to partial construction and
rehabilitation of waterways  channels to reduce transport costs and increase  rehabilitation of about 11 km of small wterways, which
in coastal areas.           cabotage safety in the Pacific coastal region, on    allow small seafaring crafts to make use of protected
a pilot basis.                                waters insread of venturing out to the open sea at kast
40% of the day.
(c) Acquisition of road     Improving the efficiency of FNCV's maintenance    The project substantially improve the availability of road
maintenance equipmentfor    fleets through acquisition of 180 equipment units.   equipment units and the operational efficiency of FNCV's
FNCV's road maintenance                                                    maintenancefleets through acquisition of 208 equipment
fleets.                                                                    units and overhaul of 43 units.



- 30 -
(d) Institutional efficiency  (1) Implementing in FNCV's Planing Office an  FNCV relies now on more technical, well-established
improvement                 information and project evaluation system;     procedures to manage its day-to-day operations: (2) ihe
(2) Implementing in FNCV's Engineering        Planning Office has been strengthened and the
Department a Maintenance Management System,    methodologies use for screening and evaluation of projects
an Equipment Management System, and           integrate socio, economic and environmental
strengthened practices for contract administration    considerations; (2) the Engineering Department has
and work supervision;                         improved the planning, programming and costing of
(3) Upgrading the technical skills of FNCV's staff   maintenance activities through establishing a Maintenance
through on-the-job training and training courses    Division and implementing a rural road inventory, the
MMS, and lo certain extent, the EMS. Extensive use of
consultants for work supervision has improved quality
control; and (3) FNCV's staff was adequately trained in
the application of the new systems and procedures. Staff
teaming with seasoned individual consultants are further
upgrading the systems developed through the technical
assistance.
B. Economic Impact
The methodology used at appraisalfor economic evaluation of about 29 subprojects, or about 490 km of roads, was based on the producer's
surplus or net value of produteion in the zone of influence; benefits were derivedfrom (1) losses avoided in present production of cash crops
which cannot be comericialized because of transports constraints, and (2) increase of yield and/or area planted in present corps. During project
implementation, FNCV's Planning Office (PO) used this methodology to select and evaluate between February 1986 and October 1987 the
economic feasibility of 135 road subprojects totalling about 2,274 km of roads. Upon completion of the Project, PO conducted an ex-post
evaluation of a representative sample of about 25 roadsubprojects (nearly 430km of roads), which are located throughoutthe country and reflect
different implementation patterns (i. e., subproject costs and implementation schedules), Field surveys were carried out between June andAugust
1993. The methodology usedfor the economic evaluation differs slightlyfrom the one applied by PO to screen road subprojects during project
implementation, since it reflects improvements made through the technical assistance. In this economic analysis, cost and area production
assumptions were replaced by actual data; shifts in production patterns and transport cost savings were also contemplated. he overall economic
rates of return estimated at appraisal and after the completion of the subprojects are given below.
Ex-Ante Evaluation              1    Ex-Post E_aluation
7hpe of SubprojcCtsl
Appraisal        Overall         Sample of            Sample of
Sample         Program        subprojects'2         subprojectsw 
Road Construction Subprojects
- No. of roads evaluated:                     20               78               10                   10
- Total length (km):                          334             1,164            138                   133
- Economic Rate of Return:                    22               29               24                   25
Deferred Maintenance Subprojects
- No. of roads evaluated:                      9               57               15                   15
- Total length (km):                          155             1,110            285                   296
- Economic Rate of Return:                    26               44               31       |           25
Notes:
"'    First-year program.
Sample of subprojects selectedfor ex-post evaluation; these subprojects represent a variety of geographical locations, topographical
conditions, project costs and implementation periods.
Specific data on the sample of subprojects evaluated upon completion of the Project is given below. Although actual work quantities were
consistently higher than those planned, construction costs remained within the estimated range when adjustments are made to reflect local
inflation during the 3 to 5-year implementation period. The evaluation showed that the total cultivated area increased about 118%, while
productivity markedly increased in 52% of the subprojects. Credit an extension services were available in 20 out of the 25 subprojects. The
subproject that yielded the highest ERR (about 67%, or 37% higher than the ex-ante estimate) was located in an area where traditional
agriculture was replaced by increased commercial exploitation offisheries.



- 31 -
Economic Evaluation of sample of Rural Roads Construction Subprojects
1  1                               Planned  | Actuat       RR   |   ER
Proy     Dept      Municipalily         Name of the Road          Ilngth      tength    Er-Ante   Er Post
(Km)      (Km)  .              (%)
128      Ant.       Argelia      Argelia(K.2.5)- La SoledadfK17,5)  15.0       7.0       27.8      34.5
87      Cal.       Samana        Norcasia- Cadenales- Rio Manso    11.0       10.0      34.5      23.5
56      Cau.         Inza              Topa - San Antonio          114        11.4      28.0      28.9
65      Cau.        Calibio       Rosario - Dunde (El Recuerdo)    9.0        9.0       28.0      13.2
94      Cun.       Cabrera       Penas Blancas - Paquilo (R.Pilar  17.0       18.0      360       22.2
138      Hui.        Suaza          Avispero- Horizonte (K 0-8)     8.0        0.0       21.3      34.8
16      Nar.        Leiva        Sia Lucia-Leiva-El Palmar fkJ2    18.0       18.0      22.0      15.2
39      Qui.        Salento             La Ceja - Toche            18.5       20.0      19.0      25.9
102      Tol.      Icononzo          Hobo-Chaparro-Basconta         5.0        8.0       29 8      4J1 4
47      Pt.         Mocoa         Prolimon - Otros- PRosano        25.0       23.4      12.0      27. 7
Overall Consruction Rural Roads Subprojects              138        133        24        25
Economic Evaluation of sampei of Deferred Maintenance Subprojects
Planned    Actual     EER       EER
Proy     Dept    Municipality           Name of the Road           lngth      length    Er-Ante   Er Post
_ ___._                                                      (Kn)       (Km)       (%)       (%)
147      Atl.       Usiacuri          Usiacuri - Aguas Vivas        13.3       13.3      n.a.      12.9
90      Boy,       Otanche         Otanche - Cotmal - Hwmbo        25.0       31,5      44.5      26.7
89      Boy.      Pto Boyaca      La C.eiba - Otros - Pto PIneda   24.0       24.0      42.1      27,6
112     Cal.        Samana       El Codo - La Quinta -Rio Moro     17,5       16.0       39.0      31J
79      Caq.      Florencia       Central - Norcasia - El Para     37.8       37.8      29.8      32.3
43      Ces.       Pailitas      Pailtras - El Terror - Los Llanos  22.0      28.0      34.0      13.2
109      Cun.        Viota          La Jazinia - San Gzbriel        10.6       10.6      21.4      42.0
93      Cun.       La Vega            La Vega - Sasaima            25.0       25.0      39.7      21.5
140     Hui.       Algeciras      Pradera-Tutin-Betania (KO-K12)    12,0       12.0      31.7      36.8
54      Nar.      Los Andes        Soto mayor - San Francisco      12.5        8.3      13 0      2 9
84      Nor.         Tfbu            Gabarra- Cano Tomas           25.0       28.0      24.5      15.3
120     San.        Cimitarra         Pao Carare-S.Fornando         14.7       23.0      20.9      17.0
17      Suc.       S Onofre       Pajonal - Barces - S Antonio     14.0       15.7      49.0      67.1
149      Put.       Pto Asis     Pro Caicedo-Paganillo-Maracaibo    10.0       9.6       20.0      36.9
67     Met.        Lejanuas          Naranjal - Guarumai           22.0       13.0      20.0      14.3
Overall Deferred Maintenance Szbprojets                286        296        31        26



- 32 -
7.    Status of Loan Covenants
1. The Borrower has complied with the following covenants of the Loan Agreement signed on May 27, 1986, and subsequently
amended on March 11, 1988, July 26, 1988, November 16, 1988, October 16, 1989, and June 29, 1990:
2.02 (b)       F     Open and maintain a special account in dolars with the Banco de la Republica, in accordance with Schedule
5 to the Loan Agreement.
3.01 (b)     TIM    Furnish to the Bank the annual rural transportation investment and maintenance programfor the following
year and update the 1986-1992. Exchange views with the Bank on the results of the previous annual
program.
3.01 (c)      EIT    Select rural roads to be constructed and submitted to deferred maintenance in accordance with the criteria
and methodology established therefor in the Manual, including inter alia, an economic rate of return for the
works to be executed in such road of not less than 12%.
3.02          M      Carry out procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
3.03          M      Furnish to the Bank (b) by March 31 and September 30 each year an evaluation of the progress made in the
execution on the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the 1986-1992 Program as of the preceding
semester ending December 31 and June 30, respectively, and (b) by September 30 each year its proposed
budgets for the following year and exchange views with the Bank thereon.
3.04 (a),      F     (a) Establish and maintain until the Closing Date, in a Bank satisfactory to the Bank, an account in pesos, on
(b), (c),          terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (b) make payments out of such account exclusively for
and (d)             expenditures in pesos for goods and services requiredfor carrying out all parts of the Project than Part B. 1
(Departmental Roads Study); (c) deposit into such account an initial deposit of not less than $2.5 million, by
March 31, 1987 an additional amount of not less than $1,5 million, and any amounts withdrawn by the
Borrowerfrom the Loan Account or the Special Account on account of payments madefor expenditures in
pesos, for purposes of all parts of the Project other than Part B. 1; and (d) provide thatfunds are promptly
deposited into the Project Account to cover any difference between the amounts withdrawn from such Account
and the amounts of funds disbursed or to be disbursed from the Loan Account and the Special Account, and
the aggregate amount offunds availablefor purposes of the Project Account, at any time, be not less than
equivalent of the estimated expenditures in pesos for a period of ninety days.
3.05           T     Employ consultants and provide adequate staff for the carrying out of Part B. 2 of the Project (a programfor
upgrading FNCV's management capabilities and efficiency). Note: the phrase 'not later than November 1,
1986" was deleted through amendment of July 26, 1988.
4.04 (a)      TIF   (c) Carry out the 1986-1992 Program in accordance with appropriate administrative and engineering
and (b)             practices, including, inter alia the establishment of an adequate balance between its construction and
deferred maintenance activities, and (b) furnish to the Bank promptly after its request all such information
concerning the 1986-1992 Program.
4.05 (a)      TIM    (a) Not later than Decernber 31, 1986, put into effect system for measuring progress of civil works carried out
by the Borrower, and (b) starting in 1987, update each year the Guarantor's rural road network inventory.
5.01 (b) (i)   F     (i) Have its records, accounts and financial statements, the Special Account and the Project Accountfor each
fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
5.02 (c)(i),   F     For all expenditures with respect of which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
(ii), (iii),       statements of expenditures, (i) maintain separate records and accounts reflecting such expenditures, (ii) retain
and iv)             until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit reportfor thefiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, aU records evidencing such expenditures, (iii) enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records, and (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in the
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this section and that the report thereof contains in respect of such
separate accounts a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of Loan withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures were used for the purposesfor which they were provided.
11. The Borrower has complied though with delay the foUowing covenants of the Loan Agreement signed on May 27, 1986, and
subsequently amended on March 11, 1988, July 26, 1988, November 16, 1988, October 16, 1989, and June 29, 1990.



- 33 -
3.06 (a)       T     Not later than August 15, 1988, complete the designs of the system to be established under Part B. 2 (b), and
and (b)             not later than March 15, 1989, put into effect such system, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Note:
the Loan Agreement was amended on Julv 26, 1988 substituting August 15, 1988for September 30, 1987 in
l__________           (a) and March 15, 1989for March 31, 19.'8 in (b).
4. 05 (b)      T     Update each year the Guarantor's rural  f! inventory, starting 1987. FNCV completed the inventory by
June 1993.
5. 01 (b)      F     Furnish to the Bank (ii) in any case not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year certified copies
(ii) (iii)          of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors; (iii)
and (iv)            monthly certified statements of the Special Account and the Project Account; and (iv) such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements as well as the audit thereof, and said records as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
III. The Borrower has not complied with the following covenants of the Loan Agreement signed on May 2 7, 1986, and subsequently
amended on March 11, 1988, July 26, 1988, November 16, 1988, October 16, 1989, and June 29, 1990:
5. 01 (a)      F     Maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations andfinancial condition. The auditors opinion on FNCVs financial statements for 1992 was
adverse.
IV. The Guarantor has complied with the followsing covenants of the Guarantee Agreement signed on May 2 7 1986 and subsequently
amended on July 26, 1988.
2.02           F     Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet the estimated expenditures requiredfor the carrying out of the Project, make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are
needed to meet such expenditures.
V. The Guarantor has complied partially or with delay with the following covenants of the Guarantee Agreement signed on May 27.
1986 and subsequently amended on July 26, 1988.
2.01 (a)       T     Carry out Part B. I of the Project (the Departmental Roads Study) through FONADE, under the supervision of
DNP with due diligence and efficiency, and cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities.
services and other resources required. Note: the initial list of selected departments provided in Part B. 1 of
the Project Description of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement was amended on July 26, 1988, deleting from
the list the departments of Atlantico and Boyaca, and adding the departments of Antioquia, Santander and
Magdalena.
2.03           T     Not later than June 30, 1989, submit to the Bank the study under Part B. I of the Project; (b) exchange views
with the Bank on the conclusions and recommendations arisingfrom such study; and (c) taking into account
the Bank's comments, implement such recommendations thereafter. Note: the Guarantee Agreement was
amended on July 26, 1988 substituting June 30, 1989 for June 30, 1987, the original date.  The study was
carried out in the departments of Antioquia, Cordoba and Magdalena.
Type of Covenant: E = Economic: F = Financial; M = Managerial; T = Technical



- 34 -
8.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle   Upto   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91            FY92    FY93    TiOTL
FY84
Through Appraisal      10.9    22. 7     -       -       -        -                                           33.6
Appraisal through       -        -     22.9      -       -        -        -        -        -        -       22.9
Board Approval
Board Approval          -        -      4.8          -        -       -        -             -        -        4.8
through Effectiveness
Supervision"P           -        -      2.7    15.0    16.5    6.2       5.8       3.5      3.3      4.0      57.0
Total                  10.9    22.7    30.5    15.0    16.5    6.2       5.8       3.5      3.3      4.0      118.3
JFrom FKY91, the project was supervised jointly with the follow-on Second Rural Roads Sector Project; staff weeks shown are thos e
exclusively reported as spent on the project.
B. Missions
Stage of Project       Month/Year      Number of      Days in Field    Specialioation    Peormance         Types of
Cycle                                   Persons                       Represented"     Rating Statue,    Probtems-
Through Appraisal
07/85             5              12           2Ec, IEn             n.a.
Appraisal through        03/86             2               5                Fa              n.a.
Board approval
Board approval           07/86             1               8               Ec                 I
through Effectiveness
Supervision              12/86             1               6               En                2               M
04/87             1               5               Ec                I               M
10/87             2               7             Ec, En              1
01/88             2               7             Ec, En              2               M
04/88             2              12             Ec, En              I
04/89             2              16             Ec, En              1
11/89             2               5             Ec, En              1
07/90             1               1               En              n.a.
11/90            2               5                En              n.a.              P
09/9,             1               7               En                I               F
02/92             2               8             Ec, En              2              F/M
07/92             1              11               En                1
01/93             1               5               Fa              n.a.              F
3/93             1               10              En                I                F
Notes:
"'    Specialists: Ec = economist; En = engineer; Fa = financial analyst; Trs = transport specialist
lb)    Rating.    I = No signif cant problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems; 4 = Major problems not being addressed.
') '  Type of problens: F = Financial; M = Managerial; P = Procurement
n.a = not applicable (limited supervision mission, Form 590 not updated).



