Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4498-LC 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Second Disaster Management Project) 
 
between 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 6, 2008 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4498-LC 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated November 6, 2008, entered into between SAINT LUCIA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related, 
and/or additional, to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000) 
(variously, 
“Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the PCU in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
 
the Recipient shall update the Operational Manual and the Environmental 
 
Management Plan to take into account the activities set forth in Schedule 1 of this 
 Agreement. 
 
 
4.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of the General Conditions, the 
Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement, but in no case later than eighteen (1
8) months after the Association’s 
approval of the Credit which will expire on January 15, 2010. 
 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
3
rd
 Floor Financial Center 
Bridge Street 
Castries, Saint Lucia 
Page  4
3
Telephone:  
 
Facsimile: 
1-758-468-5502  
1-758-452-6700 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
SAINT LUCIA 
 
By /s/ Michael Louis 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Yvonne Tsikata 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to continue preparing for, 
mitigating against, and responding efficiently to, disasters such as, but not limited to, 
hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, landslides, earthquakes, and storm surges, through 
physical strengthening of infrastructure, institutional development and training of human 
resources.   
The Project consists of following activities related and/or additional to those of 
the Original Project: 
Part  A
.
Physical Works
1. 
Carrying out of coastal and flood protection works for Dennery Village, 
specifically the creation of communal recreation areas as part of the consolidation 
of the beach reclamation activity and the extension of the works at Dennery River 
and Trou A Leau Ravine to ensure greater stability as a result of recent river 
erosion. 
2. 
Carrying out disaster mitigation works, including, drainage, river walls and slope 
stabilization works using gabion rubble, in response to hurricane damage.  
3. 
Carrying out of technical audits on civil work(s) under the Project relative to the 
disaster mitigation works as well as a scientific analysis of current landslide 
vulnerabilities. 
Part B
.
Project Management
Strengthening the institutional, administrative, financial, procurement, and 
technical capabilities of the PCU to carry out its obligations (including the required audit 
services) under the Project. 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
The Recipient shall operate and maintain, at all times during Project 
implementation, a Project coordinatio
n
unit (“PCU”), with structure, functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association which shall include, 
inter alia
:
coordinating Project implementation; carrying out administration of the Project 
in its technical, procurement, and financial aspects; preparing Project and 
financial reports in accordance with Section II below; and monitoring and 
evaluating the Project.  
 
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, then the provision of this Agreement shall prevail.  
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 C. 
Safeguards.
 
(a) 
Prior to the approval of any proposed civil work(s) to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, the Recipient shall apply the Environmental 
Management Plan, in order to: 
 
(i) 
carry out environmental screening and assessment of such 
proposed civil work(s), as prescribed in the Environmental 
Management Plan; and  
 
(ii) 
prepare recommendations for the prevention, mitigation and 
remediation of any potential environmental damage arising from 
the  
implementation of such proposed civil work(s). 
 
(b) 
During the implementation of any of the civil work(s), the Recipient 
shall have the recommendations of the environmental screening and assessment 
Page  7
6
referred to in subparagraph (a) (i) above carried out, as prescribed in the 
Environmental Management Plan.   
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than four months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  8
7
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(b)  Single Source Selection 
(c)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Page  9
8
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the Credit 
Allocated (expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1-AF)  Works  
 
1,600,000 
 
81% 
(2-AF)  Goods  
 
0 
 
81% 
(3-AF) Consultant 
Services and 
training  
 120,000  
81% 
(4-AF) Operating 
Expenditures  
 180,000  
48 
% 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 1,900,000 
 
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
 
(a) 
the term “Operating Expenditures” means the non-consultant 
expenditures incurred by the Recipient in connection with the daily operation of the PCU, 
including, office utilities, supplies and materials, salaries of PCU staff, charges associated 
with maintenance of bank accounts, which expenditures would not have been incurred 
absent the Project; and 
Page  10
9
(b) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Recipient in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the project, 
including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, rental of training facilities and 
equipment, and training materials.   
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
commencing October 15, 2018 to and 
 
including April 15, 2028 
 1.25% 
commencing October 15, 2028 to and  
 
including April 15, 2043 
 2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  12
11
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s environmental impact 
framework for the Project, dated March 9, 2004, that contains specific 
environmental rules and procedures for Project implementation including 
mandatory safeguards and mitigation actions for the carrying out of any civil 
work(s) under the Project, which safeguards and actions shall be applied to 
prevent or mitigate any possible negative environmental impact said civil work(s) 
might  otherwise cause, such as, in particular, increase in deforestation, pollution 
of groundwater, negative impacts on endangered species, increased soil erosion, 
impacts on parks and protected areas, and encroachment on natural habitats, as 
updated pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement.   
5. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
6. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual for the operation of the Original Project 
as described in the Original Financing Agreement, as updated pursuant to Section 
4.01 of this Agreement.   
7. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the loan and development credit 
agreements for the Second Disaster Management Project between the Recipient 
and the Bank and the Association, respectively, dated July 29, 2004 (Loan No. 
7238-SLU and Credit No. 3936-SLU respectively). 
8. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
9. 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in paragraph 1 of Section 
I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  13
12
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 4, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
