                                                 Documentof
                                            The World Bank

                                         FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                                    ReportNo: 27952-SLU




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ON A

                                            PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUSg3.7MILLION

                                                    AND A

                                           PROPOSEDCREDIT

                               INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR2.6MILLION
                                   (USD 3.8 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

                                   GOVERNMENTOF SAINTLUCIA

                                                    FORA

                             LC DISASTERMANAGEMENTPROJECTI1

                                                May 26,2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



 This document has restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Work Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange RateEffectiveMarch 31,2004)


                           Currency Unit = EC$
                              EC$2.688 = US$l
                             US$1.45013 = SDR

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 April 1 - Mach31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDERA  Caribbean Disaster Emergency ResponseAgency
CDMP   Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project
ECCB   Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
EL4    Environmental Impact Assessment
EOC    Emergency Operations Center
ERDMP  Emergency Recovery andDisaster Management Project
ERP    Emergency Recovery Project
EU     European Union
BRD    International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
IDA    International Development Association
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
LAC    Latin America andthe Caribbean
MCWT&PU Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport andPublic Utilities
MPDE&H  Ministry of Physical Development, Environment and Housing
NEMO    NationalEmergency Management Office
NHC     NationalHurricane Center
NHMC    NationalHazardMitigationCouncil
OECS    Organization of Eastern CaribbeanStates
PAHO    PanAmerican HealthOrganization
UNDP    UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
OCHA    Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
USGS    United StatesGeological Survey


                          Vice President:     David de Ferranti
              Country Managermirector:        Caroline Anstey
                SectorManagermirector:        JohnH.SteinDannyM.Leipziger
                       Task TeamLeader:       Francis Ghesauiere

                                                                                            FOROFFICLALUSEONLY

                                                                ST LUCIA
                                                                     .
                                          LCDisasterManagementProjectI1

                                                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                       Page
  A  .   STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                               ..................................................................  1
  1. Country andsector issues........................................................................................................                    1
  2. Rationale for Bank involvement.............................................................................................. 2
  3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes.........................................................                                   3
  B  .   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       ..................................................................................................    4
  1. Lendinginstrument..................................................................................................................                 4
  2. Project development objective and key indicators ..................................................................                                 4
  3. Project components..................................................................................................................                4
  4.     Lessonslearned andreflectedinthe project design ................................................................                                6
  5. Alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection................................................................... 7
  C IMPLEMENTATION
     .                                   ...........................................................................................................     7
  1.     Partnership arrangements(ifapplicable) .................................................................................                        7
  2. Institutionalandimplementation arrangements.......................................................................                                  7
  3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomeslresults ......................................................................                                  8
  4. Sustainability ...........................................................................................................................          9
  5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects ..................................................................... 9
  6. Loadcredit conditions ...........................................................................................................                   10
  D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
     .                                          ..................................................................................................       10
   1. Economic andfinancial analyses...........................................................................................                          10
  2.     Technical................................................................................................................................       11
  3. Fiduciary ................................................................................................................................          11
  4. Social .....................................................................................................................................        12
  5. Environment ..........................................................................................................................              12
  6. Safeguardpolicies..................................................................................................................
                        . .                                                                                                                              13
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness..........................................................................................                           14


This documenthasa restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the Derformance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
l ~ i t h o uWorld Bank authorization
             t                                                 .       .                                                                                      1

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                               ..........................................................       15
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                        ..................18
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                    .........................................................................         19
Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................         23
Annex 5: Project Costs................................................................................................................         26
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 ..................................................................................         28
Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                               ......................................   30
Annex 8: Procurement  ................................................................................................................         33
Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis                  ..............................................................................         38
Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         .............................................................................................          43
Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                      ......................................................................        50
Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File               ..................................................................................         51
Annex 13: Statement of Loansand Credits                ...............................................................................          52
Annex 14: Country at a Glance      ..................................................................................................           53

                                       ST. LUCIA

                       LC DISASTERMANAGEMENTPROJECT I1

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                          LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                        LCSFU

Date: May 26,2004                            TeamLeader: Francis Ghesquiere
Country Director: Danny M.Leipziger          Sectors: Other social services (35%);
Sector Mangermirector: John Henry Stein      Irrigation and drainage (30%); General
                                             transportation sector (25%); Non-compulsory
                                             pensions, insurance and contractual savings
                                             (10%)
                                             Themes: Naturaldisaster management (P)
Project ID: PO86469                          Environmental screeningcategory: Partial
                                             Assessment
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguardscreeningcategory: Limitedimpact

[XILoan      [XI Credit [ ] Grant [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 7.47




Borrower:
Responsible Agency:
Ministry of PhysicalDevelopment, Environment & Housing
Project Coordination Unit
GreahamLouisy Admin. Blg, P.O. Box 709
Castries, St. Lucia
Tel: (758) 468 4486 Fax: (758) 453 0417
sluerdmp@planning.gov.lc

Cumulative   I             0.90    I           3.20   I          5.50   I        6.90   I      7.47
 Project implementation period: Start July 30,2004 End: June 30,2009
 Expectedeffectiveness date: July 15, 2004
 Expected closing date: December31,2009
 Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
 Ref. PADA.3                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO

 Does the project require any exceptionsfrom Bank policies?
 Ref. PAD D.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
 Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
 Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
 Ref. PAD C.5                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO

 Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?       [XIYes [ ]No
-Ref. PAD 0.7
 Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
 The project aims at further reducing the country's vulnerability to adverse natural events
 (hurricane, floods, etc.) through investment inrisk management activities. As such, the




                                                   ii

Loadcredit effectiveness:
July 15,2004

Covenantsapplicable to project implementation:
Effectiveness condition: An operation manual, including environment guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank will be producedprior to project effectiveness. Particular Covenants: A Director,
Deputy Director, Training Officer and an Administrative Assistant with the requisite experience
will be maintained at NEMO. A Project Coordinator, an Deputy Project Coordinator and a
Technical Engineer (Procurement Assistant) with the requisite experience will be maintained at
the PCU.A progress report, includinga procurement plan and action matrix will be produced and
sent to the Bank every 6 months. Reporting needs will be reviewed at the beginning of each
fiscal year. An Operation & Maintenance report will be preparedat the beginning of the project
and updatedevery year.




                                                ...
                                               111


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsectorissues

Following average growth rates inSaint Luciaof over 6 percentper year inthe 1980s, the
economic output slowed to a 3 percent growth rate inthe 1990s anddown to a short periodof
negative growth inrecent years. This declining performance was mainly drivenby a drop in
production inthe agricultural sector which, between 1996and 2000, contracted by about 26
percent, reducing its share inthe economy to 8 percent in2000 comparedto over 14.5 percent in
1990. The slump inagriculture stemmedmainly from a substantialreduction inbanana
production. As a result, the government has been seekingto stimulate growth inother sectors,
such as the service sector, representing75% of GDP in2001. It i s trying to makeSaint Lucia
more competitive internationally and attractive to foreign investors. Expected growth intourism
should provide substantial benefit to the national economy. Investmentsininfrastructure and the
changes inthe Organization of EasternCaribbean States (OECS) telecommunications sector
regulatory framework are reducing the cost of doing business to encouragenew types of
investment. The government is also focusing on human resource development.

A serious issueconfronting Saint Lucia's development is the vulnerability of its population and
its economy to natural disasters, which can lead to serious effects on the productive sectors of the
economy such as agriculture and tourism andparticularly serious impacts on communities and
households. Natural disasters impose large costs on the country's fragile economy and
exacerbatepoverty.

Since natural disasters recur at frequent intervals, preparednessand mitigation measuresare
important for minimizing their impact. The Caribbean nations' low level of preparedness, lack
of mitigatingmeasures and limiteddisaster responsecapability was evidenced most dramatically
inrecentyearsby the devastatingimpact of Hurricane Georges on St. Kitts andNevisin
September 1998. To improve preparednessandprovide mitigation, beginning in 1998 an
Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL), the Emergency Recovery andDisaster Management Program
(EDRMP)(PAD Report No. 18655) was developedto support physical and institutionalefforts
for disaster recovery and emergencypreparednessand managementinfive OECS member
countries (Saint Lucia, Dominica, St. Kitts & Nevis, Grenada and St. Vincent andthe
Grenadines). The program has supportedthe following set of activities:


     0   Physical prevention andmitigation investments: Key social and economic infrastructure
         havebeenprotected and strengthenedbefore disasters strike inorder to reduce the
         likelihoodof loss of life and assets.
     0   Capacity building and strengthening disaster management capacity: the capacity of
         national emergency managementdisaster preparednessagencies has been strengthened
         to enable them to perform more effectively.
     0   Community preparedness: community-leveldisaster committees have been organized,
         trained andequipped to enhance their role indisaster preparedness, mitigation and
         recovery.




                                                  1

It was considered at the time that settingupindividualloansfor all five countries involvedinthe
program would be inefficient. As a result, the Bank opted to set up a regional facility to address
disaster risks rather than a series of emergency operations with individualcountries. The typical
APL approachwas modifiedto provide an horizontaldimension that would allow countries to
join indifferent phases basedon their stages of preparation(APL 1-3). At the same time, it was
also considered more efficient and forwardlookingto set up a contingent facility with allowance
for post-catastrophemitigationwork that couldbe called upon inthe event of a natural disaster
duringproject implementation(APU). The emergencyfundingwould take advantageof the
sharedriskcharacteristics of the group of countries.

The first phaseof the APL was appraised inDecember 1998for Saint Lucia, St. Kitts & Nevis
and Dominica (APLl). The second phase appraisedinMay 2002 involved similar projects for
St. Vincent & the Grenadines and Grenada (APL2). A third phasewas originally plannedto
allow the Bank to provide continued support for long-term strengthening of disaster management
capacity, to focus on continuing and enhancingthe process of community outreach and
involvement, and to finance additional physical investments for which feasibility anddetailed
engineering studies would be carried out duringAPLl & APL2. However, resourcesset aside
for this phasewere absorbedinthe design of APL2. It was agreed at the time that any additional
World Bank support would have to take the form of new and separateprojects and/or
supplemental loans andcredits. That is the case with this proposed project. A fourth "floating"
phase (APL4) will remainavailable untilthe scheduledclosing date of APL2 inJanuary 31,
2006. This tranche makes financial resources available to the Government of any of the five
participating countries should a severe natural disaster strike during the program period.

The APLl project inSaint Luciawas implemented satisfactorily and achieved all of its
objectives. The government is keen to buildon the success of this first project to further reduce
the islandvulnerability to natural disasters. Clear benefit couldbe derived from an extension of
the works program completed successfully underthe previous project, such as the small
mitigationprogram implemented by the Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and
Public Utilities (MCWT&PU); the retrofitting of schools as emergency shelters implemented by
the Ministry of Education; andretrofittingof health facilities by the Ministry of Health. The
project would also undertake works designedunderthe first project such as the coastalprotection
works for Dennery Village. The emergency preparedness andresponsecapacity inthe country
would be further improved with the construction of anEmergency Operations Center (EOC) for
the National Emergency Management Office (NEMO). The institutions responsible for
educating the public about the buildingcodes and enforcing it, territorial planning, vulnerability
assessment, and insuranceof public assets, namely the Ministry of PhysicalDevelopment,
Environment and Housing (MPDE&H) andthe Ministry of Finance would benefit from further
strengthening.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The World Bankhas aunique capacity to be involvedinthis project. It was the lead sponsor for
the recently completed lendingoperation. While other donors such as the Organization of
American States (OAS), the PanAmerican HealthOrganization (PAHO) and agencies of the
UnitedStates Government providedtechnical assistanceand limitedinvestments inthe First



                                                 2

Phase (APLl), they lack the financial andtechnical capacity to finance works and technical
assistancefor the requisite institution building. Inaddition, the Bankhas considerable
experiencewith disaster mitigationandemergencypreparednessthroughout the LatinAmerica
and the Caribbean region andthe world (see Annex 2).

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

Within the framework of the sub-regionalvision and strategydevelopedby the OECS Secretariat
and the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) as well as the country-specific Medium-Term
Economic Strategy Papers, the central goal of the World Bank Group's assistanceto the Eastern
Caribbean sub-region for the FY 02-06 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) periodis to help
reduce poverty through (i)  reduction of income insecurity (volatility) andvulnerability at
aggregate and household levels; and (ii)   human andinstitutionaldevelopment. It emphasizes
that a key element of the income insecurity and vulnerability inherentinitem(i)     i s the frequency
of naturaldisasters.

The CAS discussedby the Boardon June 28,2001 notes that natural disasterscancause major
economic damage and necessitateunforeseenpublic spending. It notes, for example, that the
cost of damage causedby Hurricane Georges in St. Kitts andNevis was about 140percent of
GDP andhas been the primary source of the country's recent fiscal difficulties. It also notes the
linkage of the tourism industry to the vulnerability of infrastructure to natural disasters. It notes
that to reduce this vulnerability there is a needto complement the rebuildingof damaged
infrastructure with comprehensivedisaster mitigationmeasures such as regular maintenance,
appropriate zoning, hazardmapping, establishmenVenforcementof building codes and disaster
information mechanisms.

Inline with the CAS objectives, this project wouldfirst contribute to reduceincome volatility of
the country by reducing its vulnerability to natural disasters. Second, the project would also
contribute to poverty alleviation, taking into account that the poor are generally the most
vulnerable to natural disasters. Disaster mitigation and institutionalcapacity buildingwould in
fact limit the negative impacts of disastersby strengthening public and private infrastructure and
improvingpublic responsiveness. The poor, often located inthe most sensitive areas, such as
flood prone areas, would directly benefit from these measures.




                                                  3

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The proposedproject will be implemented as a Standard Investment Loan (SIL) to be disbursed
over a period o f five years. The project cost i s US$8.83 million (US$8.94 if front fee i s
included), andwill be financed by a Loan of US$3.70 million anda Credit of SDR2.6 million
(US$3.80 million equivalent). The Government of Saint Lucia will finance the remaining
US$1.34 million.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The project aims at further reducing the country's vulnerability to adverse natural events
(hurricane, floods, etc.) through investment inrisk management activities. As such, the
objectives of the project are to further strengthen (a) infrastructure against the impact of adverse
natural events (hurricanes, flooding, etc.) through the implementation o f physical mitigation
measures; (b) the response capacity incase o f adverse natural event (hurricane, flooding, etc)
through capacity building,equipment purchase and investment inemergency infrastructure; and
(c) the institutional capacity of the various ministries and agencies dealing with disaster
management through the provision of adequate facilities, critical equipment, technical assistance
andtraining.

Indicators will be:

(a) the percentage of populationprotected b y key mitigation works on infrastructure and
emergency facilities have increased substantially;
(b) the country's institutionalcapacities to prepare for andrespond to disaster emergencies are
strengthened.




                             Components                                 Project cost US$ million
1    Physical Preventionand Mitigation Works                                           5.96
2    Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response                                 1.38
3    Institutional Strengthening                                                       0.42
4    Project Management                                                                0.30
                                                   Contingencies                       0.80
                                                   Front-end-fee                       0.08
                                                            Total                      8.94




                                                   4

Component 1. Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works

  (a) Coastal protection works for Dennery Village. The village of 5,000 inhabitants i s located
      on the East coast. Its vulnerability to floods and storms have increasedinthe recent years
      and was identifiedinthe first project as apriority. An engineeringstudy on coastal
      protection was completed, andrecommendeda sea wall to protect a large inhabited part
      of the town from flood.
  (b) Rehabilitation andreconstruction of two bridges. Two vulnerable bridgeswill be
      rehabilitatedwith higher construction standards.
  (c) Drainage, river walls and slope stabilization. This will include (i)rehabilitation of the La
      Clery Main DraidRavine and (ii)     implementation of small mitigation works, with gabion
      rubble walls and slope protection. The use of gabion works has proved to be an effective,
      easy and labor intensive way to implementdrainage works.
  (d) Retrofittingof Schools. Inadditionto the 16schoolsretrofitted inthe first project, three
      more have been selected. Emergency equipment, sanitary facilities andimproved
      drainage will be provided.
  (e) Retrofitting of HealthCenters. Health Centers will be strengthenedto ensure that they
      can assist communities duringdisasters.
  (f) Procurementof additional stock of gabionbaskets, mattressesandgeotextile. These
      materials will be stockpiled for use inthis project and inthe future.
  (g) Technical audits for the Coastalprotection works at Dennery Village andother works
      components.
  (h) Trainingandcapacity buildingfor theTechnical Service Division of the (MCWT&PU).
      This agencyis responsible for implementing and maintaining many of the physical
      prevention and mitigation works.

Component2. StrengtheningEmergency Preparednessand Response

  (a) Construction of the EOC and Central Warehouse. A site has been chosenfor NEMO's
      headquarters(the EOC), which will be constructed under the project. The buildingwill
      also house the central warehouse where emergency equipment and supplies will be stored
      untilneeded.
  (b) Additional Satellite Warehouses. Satellite warehouseswill be establishedthroughout the
      country to store emergency equipment and supplies within immediate reachof
      communities.
  (c) Installation of water tanks in shelters. Water tanks will be procured and installedinthe
      new shelters.
  (d) Technical assistanceandtrainingfor the NEMO. This will include: (i)     Emergency
      Shelter Manuals -Volumes 1& 2; (ii) Regulation and what to bring to a shelter;
                                                Shelter
      (iii)
          Training in shelter management, telecommunication & supply management; (iv)
      National Emergency ResponsePlan; (v) Production of video on how to preparefor and
      deal with disaster events.
  (e) Specializeddisaster equipment: (i) box for pre-positioning items; (ii)
                                           Strong                                     Shelter
      Emergency Supplies; and (iii)   Additional communications equipment




                                                 5

Component3. Institutional Strengthening

    (a) Buildingcode training and sensitization. A buildingcode was developedduring the first
        project. It was printedandinitialtraining was given to public officials and contractors.
        Furthertraining and sensitizationwill be carriedout underthis project.
    (b) Technical assistanceinterritorial planning. The objective will beto improve
        enforcement and develop territorial planninginthe country through a trainingprogram
        targetingthe planning andbuildingofficers and consulting work.
    (c) Vulnerability assessment and hazardmapping. Three zones includingflood-prone areas
       have been identifiedat Anse laRay, Dennery and Soufriere, BaboneauBoguis. Other
        studies will be identifiedinthe courseof the project.
    (d) Study on vulnerability andrisktransfer of government assets. An inventory of public
        buildingswas undertakenduringthe first project. This study will develop a strategy to
        optimize risk transfer.


Component4. Project Management

(a) Technical assistanceto the Project Coordination Unit(PCU), with the recruitment of a project
accountant; a technical engineer; and support staff. Project management services, office
equipmentandsupplies are also included.
(b)Technical Audits.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

    0   The experienceof implementation duringthe APLl inSaint Lucia showed that good
        communication is important betweenthe PCU andthe implementingagencies. Poor
        communication betweenthe PCU and the other agencies delayed implementation,
        especially at the beginning of the project. With an experienced PCUalready inplace,
        these types of delays will be much less likely.
    0   Becauseof the nature of the first project, designs for works did not exist at the beginning
        of the project and neededto be preparedduring the early stages of the project. The
        design work ledto longdelays. Works for this proposed project which will be
        undertakenduringthe first year, particularly the Dennery flood protection works, are well
        advanced (designs, drawings, bills of quantities are available, and Terms of Reference
        (TOR) are ready for other engineering designs). Implementation canbegin soon after
        effectiveness.
    0   Minor works (slope protection, gabion works) carried out by the MCWT&PU proved to
        be one of the most efficient and cost effective way to implement small mitigationworks.
       The proposedproject will reflect this successfulpattern by includingadditional such
        works.
    0  Basedon the experience with the previous Emergency Recovery and Disaster
       ManagementProject (ERDMP), the team estimates that the civil works to be procured
        under the Loadcredit will generate at least 600 to 700jobs for periods between 3 months
        and48 months, equivalent to 4,000 man-months.




                                                 6

5. Alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection

The alternative of not considering a project was envisaged. Insuch a case, responsibility of
pursuingthe disaster vulnerability reduction program identified underthe first project would fall
on the island. The risk that the program would slow down and would not reacheconomic
viability was considered very high and the alternative was rejected.

Fundingearmarkedinthe originalOECS EmergencyRecovery andDisaster Management
program was considered for this operation but was no longer available at the time of preparation.
The Saint Lucia ERDMPwas part of the first phaseof an APL operation aimed to support the
physical and institutionalefforts of the five membercountries of the OECS to strengthendisaster
recovery capacity andemergency preparednessmanagement. The program was designedto
cover all five islands inthe first two phases (APLl andAPL2), with athirdphaseavailable for
additional activities. Fundingfor this phase was eventually allocated to APL2 and was no longer
available for this operation.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)

Arrangements are beingmade to coordinate with the CaribbeanDevelopment Bank (CDB), the
OAS and the Caribbean Disaster Emergency ResponseAgency (CDERA) on the hazard-
mapping component of the project using harmonizedmethodologies and a coordinated approach.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The PCU, under the MPDE&H was responsible for coordinating implementation under the
previous disaster mitigationproject EDRMP and is currently coordinating the implementation of
the ongoing Emergency Recovery Project (ERP), which is assistingthe Government of Saint
Lucia to improve security inairports and seaports. Though the PCUwas slow to begin activities
under the EDRMP,it i s now satisfactorily staffed and has acquired expertise inprocurement and
financial management. The Government of Saint Luciai s interested infurther developing its
capacity to implementprojects through one centralized department and has proposedthat the
PCUbe responsiblefor coordinating boththe Disaster Management Project 11(DMPII) and the
HIV-AIDS project currently under preparation. It was agreedthat the PCUwould be
strengthenedunder this project if needed. A technical engineer/procurement assistant and a
financial expert have beencontemplated for DMPIIand the HIV-AIDSprojects respectively.
The possibility of movingthe PCUto the Ministry of Finance i s under consideration.

As inERDMPandERP, the PCUwill beresponsible for coordinating the implementation and
the financial managementof the proposed project.

The PCUwill be responsiblefor coordinating implementation agencies, keepingaccounts, and
reporting to the Bank. The MCWT&PU will contract and supervise the flood control works at
Dennery andmuch of the small mitigation works. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of



                                                7

Healthwill contract and supervisemitigation works undertheir respectivejurisdictions. NEMO
will implement the Emergency Preparedness component. The Ministry of Physical
Development, Environment and Housing and the Ministry of Finance will implementthe
InstitutionalStrengthening component. The respectiveline agencies will designate a contact
personwho will work closely with the PCU andprovide progressreports to the PCUon a
quarterly basis. An operational manual, summarizing the implementing and reporting
arrangementsandprocurement rules will be a condition of effectiveness.

The PCUhas inplace an adequate budgetary andfinancial managementsystem. Moreover, the
PCUhas experience inmanagingFinancialManagement (FM)aspects of Bank projects through
its involvement with two previous Bankprojects. The PCU has a full complement of
experienced staff, i s well versed inBank financial managementand procurement procedures, and
has performed satisfactorily inthe past. Inaddition, the PCU has experience with report-based
disbursementprocedures. With full implementationof the measuresinthe action planpresented
inAnnex 7, the PCUwould haveinplace adequate financial managementarrangementsthat
meet the Bank's minimumfiduciary requirementsfor the proposed project.

The flow of funds for the proposedproject calls for the loan andcredit funds to be channeledto
the project through a Special Account denominated inU S Dollars to be establishedby the PCU
inacommercial bank. The PCUwill operatealocalcurrency SpecialAccount, to finance
project expenditures inlocalcurrency, where Bank funds will be periodicallytransferred (inan
amount to cover no more than 30 days of projected expenditures) andwill be operatedin
accordancewith the procedures and guidelines set forth in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook.
The PCUwill also operate a Project Account for the purpose of receiving counterpart funds from
the Saint LuciaGovernment andprovide the counterpart funds for the payment of civil works,
consultancy services, goods and other items. This account will also be maintained ina
commercial bank.

The initial deposit into the special account will be inU S dollars. Since the PCUhas extensive
experiencewith financial managementof Bank projects and the preparation of Financial
MonitoringReports (FMRs), disbursementswill be madebasedon FMRs to be submittedto the
Bank quarterly, along with a withdrawal application.

3. Monitoring andevaluationof outcomes/results

The PCUwill be responsible for monitoringand evaluation of outcomes and results. A list of
expectedoutcomes and results i s given inAnnex 3. These will be monitored by the PCU and
World Bank missions.




                                                  8

4. Sustainability

The Government of Saint Luciais fully committed to this disasterrisk management as
demonstratedinthe Prime Minister's address to Parliament on the opening of the fiscal year
2004, andthe active participation of numerous institutions inthe National HazardMitigation
Council. Other indicators of the Government's commitment to risk managementinclude the
recent passing into law of a new building code revised to include disaster risk.

A fundamental aspect of the project is to increase the resilience of infrastructure, which should
result inreduced maintenanceandrepair costs. Nevertheless, an operations and maintenance
plan will be preparedinadvance andthe government will make a commitment to providingthe
necessaryresourcesto carry out the maintenancestipulated inthe manual. A review of this plan
will be carried out annually and submitted to the Bank no later than three months prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year. This report should include an assessment of operation and
maintenance needs for each asset retrofitted or built underthe project together with an indication
of the responsible entity andbudget made available.

A maintenance manualhasbeenpreparedfor the largest component of the project, Dennery
flood protection. It will be usedby the MCWT&PU after the works are implemented.

To ensure the sustainability of the national emergency management agencies, there will be a
covenant inthe Loadcredit Agreements that the government will maintain adequate staffingat
NEMO (at least three permanent staff) and provide a sufficient operating budget for NEMO
throughout the project implementation period.

5. Criticalrisksandpossiblecontroversialaspects

Critical risks                      Proposedmeasures                                         Level
                                                                                             of risk
Implementation delays. Inthe        The largest of the proposedworks, flood protection         M
previous project delays resulted    works inDennery, i s already inan advancedstage of
from two factors: preparation of    preparation. Complete biddingdocuments,
engineering designs and             includingdrawings, engineering design andbills of
preparation of TOR for technical    quantities are ready for the first year of
assistance.                         implementation. Terms of Referencefor most other
                                    components have already beencompleted during
                                    project preparation.

Inadequatestaffing and              The PCUis now staffed with individualswho have              M
experience inthe PCU. This risk experience with the successful implementation of
stems from a lack of experience     two projects. Staff at the PCU, andto a minor
with financial managementand        extent, at the MCWTPUare now trained and
procurement                         experienced inBank procurement, which should
                                    minimize delays. The Borrower has agreedto
                                    maintain staff with the same levelof qualification
                                    for this Droiect.



                                                 9

Project complexity: several          Project is designedon current satisfactory modus      M
ministries will be coordinated by    operandi. A new improved operation manual is
the PCU                              being prepared. A project launch workshop will
                                     provide training to most actors inthe project.




6. Loadcreditconditions

Effectiveness condition

The following conditions will be complied with prior to project effectiveness:

    (a) The deposit of at least US$50,000 incounterpartfunds for the first year of project
        implementation;
    (b) The auditors for the project havebeenappointed; and
    (c) The Operational Manual, including environment guidelines has been issued and put into
        effect.

Particular Covenants

A Director, Deputy Director, Training Officer and an Administrative Assistant with the requisite
experiencewill be maintained at NEMO.

A Project Coordinator, aDeputy Project Coordinator, andaTechnical Engineer (Procurement
Assistant) with the requisite experiencewill be maintained at the PCU.

A progressreport, includingaprocurement planandaction matrix will be producedandsent to
the Bank every 6 months. Reporting needs will be reviewed at the beginningof eachfiscal year.

An Operation andMaintenance report will bepreparedat the beginningof the project and
updatedevery year.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

A complete economic cost benefitanalysis was conducted to determine the economic viability of
the Dennery component, as it is the most significant component to be financed by the project,
representing, approximately 50% of all physical works to be constructed. The analysis presented
inAnnex 9 demonstratesthe overall viability of this component. The analysis yielded an
economic rate of returnof 23%, and an economic net present value of EC$ 3.85 millionbasedon
a discount rate of 12%representing the opportunity cost of capital inSaint Lucia. The main
quantifiable benefits included inthe analysis were (i) avoidable roadreconstruction costs
assuminga substantialstorm event every ten years that could result instorm surge flooding and



                                                 10

roaddamage; and(ii) incommercial revenue from consumption of food and services along
                        loss
the project site if there were no beacharea andthere was a diversion away from the coastline of
the village. Other benefits, such as the cost of relocating residents inthe event of a storm, the
opportunity cost of the increasedvehicle operating costs if there was a diversion, the aesthetic
andrecreational benefits, or the cost of reconstructing damage to the Daito facility were not
considered.

Apart from the economic evaluation carried out for the Dennery village coastalprotectionworks,
no economic analysis was warranted for the other physical civil works componentsof the
project, due to the small individual amounts of investments requiredfor their implementation,
generally less than US$500,000.

2. Technical

The technical studies for the major work component at Dennery Village (including the two
nearby rivers bank flood protection) was commissioned to and carried out by an internationally
reputable Consulting EngineeringFirmandthe review of their report by the project team
indicated that the proposed designwas of good quality. The engineering designs of the bridge
rehabilitation component and the smallgabions mitigationworks were carried out by the
technical department of the MCWT&PU and were basedon soundtechnical principles and
construction practices common inSaint Lucia. The detailed designs for the retrofitting of
schools andclinics and for the satellite warehouses will be commissioned to local firms and
carried out in line with the OECS BuildingCode requirements andwith previous local
experience under the general supervision of the technical departmentsof the respective
implementingagencies. Finally, the project teamraisedone concern duringthe identification
andpre-appraisal missions regardingthe size of the facility designedto housethe EOC, and are
expecting the Government to proposeappropriate remedial actions.

3. Fiduciary

The PCUwill be responsible for coordinating the implementation andthe financial management
of the proposedproject. The PCUhas inplace an adequate budgetary and financial management
system. Moreover, the PCU has experience inmanaging FMaspects of Bank projects through
its involvement with two previous Bank projects. The PCUhas a full complement of
experiencedstaff, i s well versed inBank financial management and procurement procedures,
andhas performed satisfactorily inthe past. Inaddition, the PCUhas experience with report-
baseddisbursementprocedures. With full implementation of the measures inthe action plan
presentedinAnnex 7, the PCUwould have inplace adequatefinancial management
arrangements that meet the Bank minimumfiduciary requirements for the proposedproject.

Annual project financial statementwill be audited in accordance with International Standardson
Auditing, by the Auditor's General Department inaccordance with TOR acceptableto the Bank.
The annualfinancial audit will include an opinion on the financial statementsof the project and a
memorandumon internal controls.




                                                  11

The PCU will prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues andrecommendations
contained inthe audit reports. The action planand follow-up activities would be communicated
to the Bank.

4. Social

Ingeneral, the social aspects of theproject are positive, beneficial andultimately affect the
population at large. The institutional strengtheningand capacity buildingelements of the
programassist increating a trained, responsive and competentpublic sector, improving the
country's ability to endureandmanagedisaster activities. The program of smallworks
improvement and the emergency responseplanwill contribute directly to population survival by
improving sheltering and evacuation systems andby reinforcing existing flood and landslide
control structures to reducethe potential for storm relatedconsequentialdamages. The shore
defenses planned for Dennery, the subject of a separate environmental assessment, will directly
contribute to the continued survival of the community, its inhabitants and economy. Finally,
other small works improvements are designedto assure that critical transportation structures
remain operational duringa state of emergency, contributing directly to the well beingof the
population at large.

The social segments affected by the project, directly include all inhabitants of the country
without bias to age, or sex. Many of the small works as well as the constructions at Dennery are
planned for rural, non-tourism related areas. As a result, the social benefit interms of economic
segment i s slightly biasedproviding some greater benefit to the moderate and lower economic
income groups with improved landslide protections and sheltering facilities. Dennery, in
particular, is economically stressed and has gradually become increasingly reliant on its fishing
andshorerelatedactivities. This has resulted from the effects of previous disasters, the loss of
manufacturingjobs inthe garmentindustry and declines in agricultural sector. The construction
of shore defense works inthis area will directly improve the protection of this low to moderate
income community from catastrophic losses from storm damage.

5. Environment

The project is consideredcategory B dueprincipally to the coastaldefense works plannedfor the
town of Dennery. Other works plannedunder the programare largely small works consisting of
repair, rehabilitation, and heavy maintenance activities. These works will likely be classified as
category C with environmental impacts limited to the actual construction phaseof the individual
activities.

The project will finance the construction of flood protection works in the village of Dennery on
the Atlantic Coast of the Island. That proposedprogram of works was designed under the
previous project. Six scenarios have been analyzed to evaluate how best to protect the area (1)
Do Nothing; (2) SandManagement; (3) Buried RevetmenVSandManagemenmiverBan
Protection; (4) Same as 3 with one Breakwater; (5) Same as 3 with two Breakwaters; and (6)
Same as 5 with LimitedLandReclamation and ImprovedDrainage.




                                                12

After extensive consultations andafull environmental impact assessment, option six was
eventually chosen. The works will comprisethe construction of (i)     a 415 meter long buried
stone revetment that will enhance the shorelineand protect the residenceslocated along the
beach; (ii) three break waters of approximately 50 meters long each designedto reduce erosion
and scouring actions, as well as improve sandreplenishment along the shoreline; (iii)
reclamationof about 2000 square metersof land at the northern side of the site, including a 60
meter long armor bermto protect the reclaimed land from sea surge; (iv) appropriate bank
revetment along critical segments of two rivers delimitating the Southernand Northernpart of
the village; and (v) works aimed at enhancingthe drainagesystem inand around the village.

The project will also finance the constructionof an EOC andthe continuation of aprogram of
small mitigation works, includingthe construction or repair of retention walls, river wall
protection, drains, and the retrofittingof schools andhealth centers and two bridges. The Project
Operation Manual will set the criteria for the needfor and extent of environmental assessments
for these civil works. The preparation of the Operation Manuali s acondition of effectiveness
for the project and the use of the environmental guidelines i s a covenant on the civil works
components. Environmental Guidelinesto be includedinthe project manual have already been
prepared.

No significant negative environmental impacts have beenidentifiedresulting from the program.
The works at Dennery will not negatively affect any of the localnatural systems in a significant
way and will provide an increasedlevel of protection to the shoreline community from storm
damage. Furthermore, the planned construction will assist inreversing the beach erosion
resulting from the construction of the Dennery harbor and fish-processing center completed
under another assistanceprogramin 1992. The anticipated benefits to the communitythrough
loss prevention are significant interms of their social, economic and cultural elements. Perhaps
the greatest impact anticipated is the reduction inthe potential for inducedcommunity
relocations due to improvedcoastal stability. Displaced families, for lack of other options, have
relocatedto vacant lands inthe adjacent watershedprotection areas. These relocations have
historically resulted inincreaseddamage to watershed slopes increasing runoff and erosion
potential. Limiting coastal damage will reduce these relocations reducing damage to the already
stressed watersheds.

The other elementsof the program include institutional strengthening andcapacity buildingas
well as the improvement of minor works projects throughout the country. No significant
negativeimpacts havebeen identifiedassociatedwith these activities.

6. Safeguardpolicies

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                             Yes              No
 EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                 [X 1             [I
 NaturalHabitats(OP/BP4.04)                                               [I              [XI
 PestManagement(OP 4.09)                                                  [I              [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP4.11)                    [XI              [I
  InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                     [I              [XI
 IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP4.10)                        [ I             [XI
 Forests(OP/BP4.36)                                                       [I              [XI


                                                 13

  Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                              [I                   [XI
  ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP7.60)*                                                 [ I                  [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     E l                   [XI

No particular issue is foreseenon Cultural Property. However, since the project includes works,
it wasjudgedprudent to trigger OPN 11:03 (currently beingrevisedas OP4.11). Special guidelines
anda screening processfor small mitigationworks havebeendevelopedto detect possible
impacts on archaeological or historical sites and ensurecompliance with OPN 11.03.

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

No relief from operations or policy is sought under this program. The only departurefrom Bank
policy i s the enhancedenvironmental vigilance requiredunder the small works projects
initiatives. While these are consideredcategory C as definedunder OP4.01, additional
environmental guidelines havebeenpreparedfor the assessment and conduct of the smallworks
plannedunder this program.

The guidelines include a screeningsystemto assure compliance with Bank environmental policy
andSaint Lucianenvironmental law. The screeningprocedure first identifies whether an
environmental assessment would be required due to the nature of the activity contemplated. If
this is required (Le. the activity triggersthe Category B requirement), the activity will either be
rejected or an environmental assessment will be completed as required under Bank policy and
SaintLucianenvironmental law. Giventhe nature of the works proposedthus far, this is a
highly unlikely scenario.

Ifanenvironmentalassessmentisnotrequired,achecklisthasbeendevelopedwhichisthen
usedto identify activities that may have associatedenvironmental consequences, such as paint
andsolvent usage, worker sanitation, noise managementandfindingof cultural artifacts. For
those activities, a set of standardcontract clauses are providedto be attachedto the project
biddingdocumentswhich are designedto assure that these anticipated effects are managed.
These requirements are reviewed internallyby the appropriate Saint Lucian authorities and then
presentedwith the formal approval.

The guidelines and implementation procedures are consistent with Bankpolicies and operate
within the framework of Saint Lucianenvironmental managementpolicies. PCU
implementation procedures include the provision for environmental review compliant with the
newly enactedSaint LucianLandPlanning Act.

Readiness. Detailed designs, specifications, BOQs and TOR for most of the activities have been
preparedandreviewed by the Bank. The project i s deemed at this stage ready for
implementation.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determinationof theparties' claims on the
disputedareas


                                                             14

                    Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                        ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagement Project I1


Saint Lucia is part of the Windward Islands. The interior of the island is mountainous, but there
i s more flat landthan in Dominica, Grenadaor St. Vincent. The soil i s generally fertile and the
bananaindustry (together with other agriculture products) makes Saint Lucia the biggestexporter
of agricultural products amongthe OECS member countries. Tourismhas become the main
foreign exchangeearner inthe country inrecent years. Despite strong social indicators - the
UNDPHumanDevelopment Index classifies St Luciaas Bth of 174countries - andawell
                                                               out
managedeconomy, poverty and unemployment are still persistent problems. Twenty-five
percent of the population lives below the locally definedpoverty line and the unemployment rate
i s around 18 percent.

Followingaverage growth rates of over 6 percent inthe 1980s, output growth rates slowed to 3
percent inthe early 1990sandto about 2 percent inrecent years. This weak performance was
mainly driven by the agricultural sector which, between 1996and 2000, contracted by about 26
percent; reducing its share inthe economy to 8 percent in2000 compared to over 14 1/2percent
in 1990.Theslumpinagriculture stemmedfrom substantialreductioninbananaproduction
which fell by 32 percent and23 percent in 1997 and 1999respectively, due mainlyto changes in
European Union (EU) agricultural policies. Growth, however low, was maintainedby the
broadly satisfactory performance of tourism, construction, utilities, commerce, and the financial
sector which together represent about 75% of GDP (2001 values). Sound fiscal management
over the last several years has allowedfor the generation of strong public saving (averaging 8 1/4
percent of GDPduring 1995-99). The Government i s seeking ways to make Saint Lucia more
competitive internationally and attractive to foreign investors. Investments ininfrastructure and
the changes inthe OECS telecommunications sector regulatory framework are reducing the cost
of doing business. The government i s also focusing on humandevelopment.

A serious issueconfronting Saint Lucia's development perspectivesis the vulnerability of its
population andits economy to natural disasters. The consequencesof natural disasters inthe
small island states of the Caribbean from events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and
volcanic eruption on economic activities, property, human welfare and natural resourcescan be
devastating. These events can lead to serious effects on the productive sectors of the economy
such as agriculture and tourism, not to mention the impact on communities. St Lucia was hitby
Tropical Storm Debbie in 1994andHurricane Allen in 1980. Ithas also been affected to lesser
degrees by severalother storms which damagedneighboring countries. Natural disasters impose
large costs on the country's fragile economy andexacerbatepoverty.

Since naturaldisastersrecur at frequent intervals, preparednessand mitigation measures are
important for minimizingtheir impact. Beginningin 1998, an Adaptable Program Loan (PAD
Report No. 18655) was developed to support physical and institutional efforts of five OECS
member countriesfor disaster recovery and emergency preparednessand management. The
nations' low level of preparedness,lack of mitigatingmeasures and limited disaster response
capability hadbeenevidencedby the devastating impact of Hurricane Georges on St. Kitts and
Nevis in September 1998.



                                                 15

    0    The first phase of the program (APLl) was to support the immediate reconstruction and
         rehabilitationof infrastructure inSt. Kitts & Nevis and to support disaster mitigation and
         institutional strengtheninginSt. Kitts & Nevis, Saint Lucia andDominica.
    0    The second phase(APL2) was to support these same activities inGrenadaandSt.
         Vincent and the Grenadines.
    0    APL3 was to focus on additional physical investmentsidentifiedthrough hazardmapping
         analysis and provide further longterm institutional strengthening.
    0    APLA was to provide contingency fundingfor any eligible OECS member incase of a
         severe natural disaster during the six year program period.

Itwas considered at the time that settingupindividualloans for all five countries involvedinthe
programwould be inefficient. As a result, the Bank opted to set up aregional facility to address
disaster risks rather than a series of emergency operations with individualcountries. The typical
APL approachwas modifiedto provide an horizontal dimension that would allow countries to
join indifferent phasesbasedon their stages of preparation (APL 1-3). At the same time, it was
also considered more efficient andforward lookingto set up acontingent facility with allowance
for post-catastrophemitigationwork that could be called uponinthe event of a natural disaster
duringproject implementation (APLA). The emergencyfunding would take advantageof the
sharedrisk characteristics of the group of countries.

The first phase of the APL has been completed. APL2 is still under implementation. APL3 was
not initiatedbecauseits funding was reallocated to APL2. APLA has not been used. The APLl
project inSaint Lucia has met its objectives:

(i) economicandsocialinfrastructureandfacilitieswerestrengthenedtominimizedamage
   Key
andeconomic disruption from future naturaldisasters(pre-disasterworks). There were
important flood control, bridge strengthening and flood mitigationworks, and schools were
retrofitted as emergency shelters. A large amount of emergency equipment i s now available for
use infuture disasters.

(ii) objectiveofrehabilitatingsocialandeconomicinfrastructurefollowingdisasterswas
    The
less relevant in Saint Lucia at that time.

(iii) country'sinstitutionalcapacitiestoprepareforandrespondtodisasteremergencies
     The
were strengthened. A seven member NationalHazardMitigation Council (NHMC) was
establishedand a Disaster PreparednessandResponseAct was passedin2000. Other initiatives
included: (a) revision of the NationalDisaster Emergency Management Plan; (b) strengthening
the liaison with the private sector to implement the Plan; (c) proposing a NationalBuildingCode
andpreparing an action plan and legislation for implementation; (d) strengthening a hazard
analysis and vulnerability mapping group; (e) implementingnew procedures at the National
Meteorological Service; (f) and strengthening the preparednessof communities through NEMO-
sponsoredtraining.

Although considerableprogress was made under the APLl inSaint Lucia, further work remains
to be done. Coastalprotection works for Dennery Village, which were designed under the



                                                  16

recently completed project, have yet to be undertaken. Many of the works completed
successfully under the previous project needto be extended, such as retrofitting schools and
health centers as emergency shelters andextending the successful construction of storm drain
protection works using gabionbaskets. The emergency preparednessand responsecapacity in
the country requires further improvement with the construction of an EOCand additional
equipment andtraining. The institutions responsiblefor the building code, territorialplanning
andvulnerability assessment needfurther strengthening.




                                               17

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                       ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagementProject I1


                                                                             Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                         Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                         (Bank-financedprojectsonly)



                                                                                       (IP)    (DO)
Bank-financed
Nicaragua - Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction Project (PO64916), approval date:  S       S
04/03/2001, closing date: 03/3112005.
OECS - Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Program (P069923), approval           S       S
date: 05/29/2002, closingdate: 01/31/2006.
Mexico - Natural Disaster Management Project (P064887), approval date: 12/07/2000,      U       U
closing date: 12131/2004.
Honduras-Natural Disaster Mitigation Project (PO64913), approval date: 05/30/2000,      S       S
closing date: 04115/2005.
Colombia - Earthquake Recovery Project (P065263), approval date: 03/21/2000, closing   HS      HS
date: 06/30/2004.
Colombia - UrbanInfrastructure Project (P006861) / 1996, approval date: 12/22/98,       S       S
closing date: 06/30/2003.


Other developmentagencies
Colombia - Reconstruction of the Earthquake inthe Coffee Belt (IADB)
Jamaica - Recovery and Reconstruction from Flooding, 2002 (IADB)
Disaster Prevention and Preparednessinrelation to natural hazards (UN-OCHA)
Colombia -Installationof a GIS and User Training for the Regional Autonomous
Corporation(CAR) - 1989(OAS)
Reducingthe Vulnerability of the Transport Sector to Natural Hazards, 2002 (OAS)
Caribbean Disaster Mitigation Project (CDMP), 1993. (OAS-USAID)




                                                  18

                                Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring
                              ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagement ProjectI1
                                             ResultsFramework

               PDO                       Outcome Indicators                   Use of Outcome
                                                                                Information

(a) to further reduce the           (a) The percentageof population
vulnerability o f infrastructure to protected by key mitigation        To assure that strategic
natural disasters (hurricanes,      works to infrastructure, flood     infrastructure can resist adverse
flooding, etc.) through the         control and hardening of           natural events in the future and
implementation o f physical         emergency facilities by planning   vulnerable areas are protected.
mitigation measures,                district.
improvements and repairs; and                                          To assure that population i s
                                    (b) Readinessand capacity of the   made less vulnerable to adverse
(b) to strengthen the institutional country's institutions to prepare  natural events.
management and response             for and respond to disaster
capacity of the cognizant           emergenciesby planning district.   To ensure that the facilities and
ministries and agencies for                                            human resourcesput in place
disaster management through the     (c) The country's institutional    under the project are adequate to
provision of facilities, critical   capacities to prepare for and      reduce or managedisaster risk
equipment, technical assistance     respond to disaster emergencies    and to respond to future
and training.                       are strengthened and               emergencies.
                                    improvements are seen in the
                                    individual planning districts.

    Intermediate Results                Results Indicators for         Useof ResultsMonitoring
    One per Component                     Each Component
Component One:                      Component One:                     Component One:
Physical Prevention and
Mitigation Works

(i)Protection works at Dennery      Contract milestones achieved for  To track quarterly progress of the
                                    works completed at Dennery         physical works undertaken
                                    Village.                           completed to assess achievement
                                                                       of priorities and management
(ii)Reconstruction of 2 bridges     # of bridges completed and         successand provide an indication
                                    contract milestones achieved.      of the institutional strengthening
                                                                       progress for the MCWT&PU in
(iii)Drainage,riverwalls&slope      # of minor works completed by      terms of persons trained.
stabilization                       class.

(iv) Retrofitting of schools        % of schools hurricaneresistant.

(v) Retrofitting o f health centers # of health centers retrofitted.




                                                         19

 Component Two:                     Component Two:                   Component Two:
 Strengthening Emergency
 Preparedness & Response

 (i) Constructionof EOCand          EOC andCentralWarehouse          To track quarterly progresson
 CentralWarehouse                   completed.                       :hecompletionof various sub-
                                                                     :omponents for emergency
 (ii) Constructionof additional     Warehousescompleted.             xeparedness andresponse
 SatelliteWarehouses                                                 includingequipment pre-
                                                                     positioning,installationof
 (iii)Installationof water tanks in Water tanks installed.           zommand structures, training,
~


Ishelters                                                            andinstitutionaldevelopmentto
                                                                     assurekey milestonesare met.
I(iv) TA, planningandTraining       Emergency plancompleted;
 for NEMO                           Shelter manuals completed;
                                    Shelter regulationscompleted;
                                    # personstrained (shelter mgmt.,
                                    telecommunications& supply
                                    mgmt.completed); National
                                    Emergency ResponsePlan
                                    completed.

                                    Strongboxes and additional
                                    Communicationsequipmentpre-
                                    positioned.

 Component Three:                   Component Three:                 Component Three:
 InstitutionalStrengthening

 (i) BuildingCode Training and      # inspectorsand staff trained on To assess quarterly progressin
 territorialTA                      buildingcodesandterritorial      the strengtheningof planningand
                                    planning.                        enforcementinstitutionsthat
                                                                     provide vulnerabilityplanning
 (iii) VulnerabilityAssessment      Assessmentsand hazardmapping     andbuildingcode development
 and HazardMapping                  completed.                       andenforcementto assure
                                                                     effectivenessof the strengthening
 (iv) Study on Risk Transfer of     Study onrisktransfer completed   program.
 GovernmentAssets                   andreviewed.




                                                        20


                   Y


.e
0
E




        d     02 -




                    CI

               m
               0 - &P
                    s
                    E




     0m - 0

                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                       ST. LUCIA: LCDisaster Management Project I1


Component 1 Physical Preventionand Mitigation Works
               -
Component 1will be implementedby the Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and
Public Utilities (MCWT&PU) for sub-component (a), (b), (c), (f) and (g); by the Ministry of
Education for sub-component(d); and by the Ministry of Health for sub-component (e). The
sub-componentsare describedbelow:

   (a) Coastal protection works for Dennery Village. A large densely populated part of
       Dennery village is subject to periodic flooding and i s particularly vulnerable to storm
       surges. An engineering study to study options for flood protection and designproposed
       works for coastalprotection was producedunder the first project. It recommended a sea
       wall to protect a large inhabitedpart of the town from inundation. Works are expectedto
       be contracted intwo batches; afirst one includingthe construction of aburiedrevetment
       andbreakwaters; and a secondone including all the flood protection works along the two
       rivers that surround the village of Dennery. The works are expectedto last 30 months.
   (b) Rehabilitation andreconstructionof two bridges. Two vulnerable bridges will be
       rehabilitated. The proposedworks are expectedto last one year.
   (c) Drainage, river walls and slope stabilization. This will include: (i) rehabilitation of the
       La Clery Main Drain/Ravine and (ii)    implementation of small mitigation works gabion,
       rubblewalls, slope protection. The use of gabion works has proved to be aneffective,
       easy and labor intensive way to implement drainage works. The works will be contracted
       infour phasesover the life of the project.
   (d) Retrofittingof Schools. Emergency equipment, sanitary facilities and improveddrainage
       were installed in 15 schoolsunder the first project out of an intended 23 schools.
       Additional schools will be covered under this project.
   (e) Retrofittingof HealthCenters. HealthCenters will be strengthenedto ensure that they
       can assistcommunities duringdisasters.
   (f) Procurementof additional stock of gabion baskets, mattressesandgeotextile. These
       materials will be stockpiled for use inthis project and inthe future.
   (g) Technical auditsfor the Coastal protection works at Dennery Village and other works
       components.
   (h) Trainingandcapacity buildingfor the Technical Service Divisionof the MCWT&PU.
       This agencyis responsible for implementingandmaintainingmany of the physical
       prevention and mitigation works.

Component 2 Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response
               -
Component 2 will be implemented by the NEMOunder the PrimeMinister's Office. The sub-
componentsare describedbelow:

  (a) Construction of the EOC and CentralWarehouse. NEMO was established under the first
       project and serves as the secretariat for the NHMCwhich i s chaired by the Minister of



                                                 23

       Works and adviseshimon disaster relatedissues. A site has beenchosenfor its
       headquarters,the EOC, which will be constructedunder the project. The building will
        also house the central warehouse where emergency equipment and supplieswill be stored
        untilneeded.
    (b) Additional Satellite Warehouses. Satellite warehouseswill beestablishedthroughout the
       country to store emergency equipment and supplies within reachof communities.
    (c) Installationof water tanks inshelters. Water tanks will be procured and installedinthe
       new shelters.
    (d) Technical assistanceandtraining for NEMO. This will include: (i)    Emergency Shelter
        Manuals -Volumes 1& 2; (ii)     Shelter Regulation and what to bringto a shelter; (iii)
        Training inshelter management, telecommunication & supply management; (iv) National
       Emergency ResponsePlan; and (v) Production of video on how to preparefor and deal
        with disaster events.
    (e) Specialized disaster equipment: (i)Strongbox for pre-positioning items; and (ii)
        Additional communications equipment.

Component 3 InstitutionalStrengthening
                -

Component 3 will be implementedby the MPDE&H for sub-component (a), (b) and (c); and by
the Ministry of Finance for sub-component (d).

    (a) Buildingcode training and sensitization. A buildingcode was developed during the first
        project. It was printedand initialtraining was given to public officials andcontractors.
        Furthertraining and sensitization will be carriedout under this project.
    (b) Technical assistanceinterritorialplanning.
    (c) Vulnerability assessment andhazardmapping (including flood-prone area at Anse la Ray,
        Dennery and Soufriere, BaboneauBoguis and others).
    (d) Study on vulnerability and risktransfer of government assets. An inventory of public
        buildingswas undertakenduring the first project. The objectives of the study would beto
        optimize the use of risk transfer markets (both conventional insurance and capital
        markets)to ensure that risk protection is providedwhere it is most needed. The risk
        transfer strategy would have two componentsto be contracted back to back. The first one
        involves rationalizing insurancepurchasing procedures for relatively short return-period,
        high-frequency events. The secondcomponent involves commissioning the development
        of parametric indexes, designedto mimic catastrophe losses inSt Lucia. These
        'parametric index structures'would be basedon the specific properties (locations and
        magnitudeshntensities) of the events (principally hurricanes, but also earthquakes),
        derived from highquality, rapidly publishedinformationon the events: provided by
        reputable independentmonitoring agencies, such as the National Hurricane Center
        (NHC) and UnitedStates Geological Survey (USGS).

Component 4 Project Management
               -

This component will ensure that sufficient resourcesare available to coordinate and monitor the
project duringimplementation and includes Technical assistanceto the PCU, with the




                                                24

recruitment of a quantity surveyor/technical engineer; a training program, office equipment and
project management services are also included.




                                               25

                                          Annex 5: Project Costs
                          ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagement Project I1

Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                        Local    Foreign   Total
                                                                  us       us       us
                                                                $million $million  $million


Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works
(i) protectionWorksforDenneryVillage
    Coastal                                                         0.412    2.332     2.744
(ii)Rehabilitation and reconstruction of two bridges                0.092    0.519     0.610
(iii)Drainage, river walls and slope stabilizations
 a. Rehabilitation of L aClerly MainDraidRavine                     0.045    0.255    0.300
 b.Implementationof SmallMitigationWorks (gabion, rubble            0.150    0.850     1.ooo
walls, slope protection)
(iv) Retrofitting of schools                                        0.039    0.219     0.258
(v) Retrofitting of health centers                                  0.043    0.246     0.290
(vi) Procurement of additional stock of gabion baskets,             0.030    0.170     0.200
mattressesand geotextile
(vii) Training and capacity buildingfor the Technical Service       0.004     0.016    0.020
Division of MCWT&PU
(viii) Technical audits                                             0.018     0.072    0.090
(ix) Designand supervision of work.                                 0.090     0.360    0.450
                                                           Total    0.922     5.039    5.960


Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response
(i)Construction of the EOC & Central Warehouse                      0.105     0.595    0.700
(ii)Additional satellite warehouses                                 0.041     0.230    0.270
(iii)Installation of water tanks in shelters                        0.002     0.013    0.015
(iv) TA and training for NEMO
a. Emergency Shelter Manuals - Volumes 1& 2                         0.004     0.016    0.020
b. Shelter regulationand what to bringto a shelter                  0.003     0.007    0.010
c. Training in shelter management, telecommunications &             0.002     0.007    0.009
supply management
d. NationalEmergency ResponsePlan                                   0.030     0.070    0.100
e. Productionof video on how to prepare and deal with disaster      0.009     0.021    0.030
events
(v) Specialized disaster equipment
a. Strongbox for pre-positioningof items                            0.014     0.077    0.090
b. Additional communications equipment                              0.009     0.051    0.060
c. Shelter Emergency supply                                         0.012     0.068    0.080
                                                           Total    0.230     1.154     1.384


                                                   26

Institutional Strengthening
(i)Buildingcode training andsensitization                                 0.010         0.040        0.050
(ii)Territorial Planning TA                                               0.013         0.052        0.065
(iii)Vulnerability assessment and Hazard mapping (including               0.020         0.080        0.100
floodable area at Anse laRay, Dennery and Soufriere,
BaboneadBoguis and others)
(iv) Study on vulnerability and risktransfer of government assets         0.040         0.160        0.200


                                                              Total       0.083         0.332        0.415


Proiect Management                                            Total       0.090         0.210        0.300


Total Baseline Cost                                                       1.325         6.734        8.060
PhysicalPrice Contingencies                                                             0.806        0.806
                                            Total Project Costs'          1.325          7.541       8.866
                                                    Front-endFee                         0.036       0.036
                                      Total FinancingRequired             1.325          7.577       8.902



'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$1.29 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$7,37
million. Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes is 85%.




                                                      27

                            Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                      ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagement Project I1


Project Coordination and Management

The PCU, under MPDE&H, will be responsible for coordinating the implementation and the
financial managementof the proposedproject.

Financial Management

The PCUhas inplace an adequatebudgetary and financial managementsystem. Moreover, the
PCUhas experience inmanaging FMaspects of Bank projects through its involvement with two
previous Bank projects. The PCUhas a full complement of experiencedstaff, i s well versed in
Bank financial managementandprocurement procedures, and has performed satisfactorily inthe
past. Inaddition, the PCUhas experiencewith report-baseddisbursementprocedures. With full
implementation of the measures inthe action planpresentedinAnnex 7, the PCUwould have in
place adequate financial managementarrangements that meet the Bank's minimumfiduciary
requirements for the proposedproject.

The flow of funds for the proposedproject calls for the loan funds to be channeledto the project
through a Special Account denominatedinU S Dollars to be establishedby the PCU in a
commercial bank. The PCU will operate a local currency Special Account, to finance project
expenditures inlocalcurrency, where Bank funds will be periodically transferred (inan amount
to cover no more than 30 days of projected expenditures) and will be operatedinaccordance
with the proceduresand guidelines set forth inthe Bank's DisbursementHandbook. The PCU
will also operate a Project Account for the purpose of receiving counterpart funds from the Saint
Lucia government and provide the counterpart funds for the payment of civil works, consultancy
services, goods and other items. This account will also be maintained ina commercial bank.

To facilitate disbursementunder this project, proceeds of the credit/loan would be disbursed
following effectiveness to the US Dollar denominated special account managedby the PCU.
The initialdeposit intothe special accountwill be US$800,000. Since the PCUhas extensive
experiencewith financial managementof Bank projects and the preparation of FMRs,
disbursementswill be made basedon FMRs to be submitted to the Bank quarterly, along with a
withdrawal application.

Procurement Activities

Procurement activities will be carried out by the PCUinclose coordination with the Government
TenderBoards. The PCUis satisfactorily staffed by a Project Coordinator, aDeputy Project
Coordinator who also acts as a Procurement Officer, an Administrative Unit of 3 staff, an
Accounting Unit of 2 staff, and a Clerk. It i s also contemplated to hire indue time an
EngineedQuantity surveyor to overview the design and Billof Quantities prepared by the
consultants contractedunder the project and would act as a procurement assistant. The
OperationalManualwill include, inaddition to the procurement procedures, the Standard



                                                  28

BiddingDocuments (SBD) to be usedfor eachprocurementmethod, as well as model contracts
for works and goods procured on the basis of three quotations or shopping.

An assessment of the capacity of the PCUto implementprocurement actions for the project was
carried out inJanuary 2004. The assessment reviewedthe organizational structure of the PCU
and the interaction betweenthe project's ProcurementOfficer and the Government's Tender
Board. Basedon that review the overall project riskfor procurement is AVERAGE.




                                              29

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                       ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagementProjectI1

SummaryConclusionof FinancialManagementAssessment. Onthe basis of the assessments
performed, the financial managementteampresents the following conclusions:

    The PCUhas inplace an adequatebudgetary andfinancial managementsystem. Moreover,
    the PCUhas experience inmanagingFMaspects of Bank projects through its involvement
    with two previous Bank projects. The PCUhas a full complement of experienced staff, i s
    well versed inBankfinancial management and procurement procedures, and has performed
    satisfactorily inthe past. Inaddition, the PCUhas experience with report-based
    disbursement procedures.

    Assumingthe PCUcarries out the proposedaction planpresentedinthis assessment, it
    would have inplace adequate financial management arrangementsthat meet the Bank
    minimumfiduciary requirementsfor the proposedproject.

ImplementingArrangements. The PCU, under the Ministry of Physical Development,
Environment and Housing, will be responsiblefor coordinating the implementation and the
financial managementof the proposedproject. The PCUhas experience managingBank projects
as it was responsible for managing the previous disaster mitigationproject (ERDMP) andi s still
managing the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP). Through its involvement with these two
projects, the PCUhas acquired expertiseinprocurement and financial managementof Bank
projects.

Flow of Funds. The flow of funds calls for the Loadcredit funds to be channeledto the project
through a Special Account denominatedinU S Dollars to be establishedby the PCU ina
commercial bank. The PCU will operate a local currency Special Account, to finance project
expenditures inlocal currency, where Bank funds will be periodically transferred (inan amount
to cover no more than 30 days of projected expenditures) and will be operatedin accordance
with the proceduresand guidelines set forth inthe Bank's Disbursement Handbook. The PCU
will also operate a Project Account for the purpose of receivingcounterpart funds from the Saint
Lucia government and provide the counterpart funds for the payment of civil works, consultancy
services, goods and other items. This account will also be maintained in a commercial bank.

Audit Arrangements: Underthe proposedproject, project financial statementswouldbe audited
annually. The audit reports would be preparedin accordancewith International Standards on
Auditing, by independentauditors acceptableto the Bank andinaccordancewith the TOR. The
PCUwill needto present TOR and a letter of appointment of the external auditor during
negotiations for Bank review andapproval. The audit report would include supporting schedules
providingsufficient informationon the project ( i.e. Sources and Uses of Funds, Statement of
Expenditures (SOE), the Special Accounts, andthe Project Account pertainingto the project).
The project's annual audit report will be required to be submitted to the Bank no later than 4
months following the endof the fiscal year (April-March).




                                                30

DisbursementArrangements: To facilitate disbursementunderthis project, proceedsof the
crediaoan would be disbursed,following effectiveness, to the US Dollar denominated special
account managedby the PCU. The initialdeposit into the special account will be US$800,000
with an initial advance of US$350,000. Since the PCUhas extensive experience with financial
managementof Bankprojects and the preparation of FMRs, disbursements will be made based
on FMRsto be submittedto the Bank quarterly, along with a withdrawal application. The FMR
will include a narrative outliningthe major project achievementsfor the quarter, the project's
sources and uses of funds, adetailed analysis of expendituresby sub-component, aphysical
progressreport, a procurement report and a procurement table. The FMRs should be submitted
to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end of the reporting period.

Budgeting Process. An annual budget would be prepared by the PCU on the basis of a
consolidated annual investment plansfrom other participating agencies.


FinancialManagementActionPlan

Action                                           ResponsibleEntity      CompletionDate
1.Audit Arrangements
1.1 TOR and letter of Appointment for the
auditors                                                 PCU              Effectiveness

            ~


2. Reporting
2.1 Submit to the Bank a sample format of
the FMR to be used for disbursement                      PCU              Effectiveness
purposes
3. PCU
3.1 Prepare an operational manual for the
proposed project and submit to the Bank for              PCU              Effectiveness
review and no objection
4. Flow of Funds
4.1 Open the Special Account in USD in a
commercial bank                                          PCU              Disbursement

4.2 Request the initial deposit of counterpart
funds inthe Prqject Account for the first year           PCU              Disbursement




                                                31

Allocation of LoadcreditProceeds

                                                   ~    ~~    ~    ~~

                                 Amount of the  Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated Credit Allocated
Expenditure Category                (US$)           (SDN              FinancingPercentage
1.Works                           2,700,000       1,800,000                   85
2. Goods                            183,000         125,000                   85
3. Consulting Services (intl.)      338,000         230,000                   80
4. Consulting Services (local)      105,000          72,000                   70
5. Operating Expenses               128,000          87,000                   85

Front-end Fee                        37,000
Unallocated                         209,000         286,000
Total                             3,700,000       2,600,000

Special Account: US$800,000




                                          32

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
                       ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagementProjectI1

A. ProcurementArrangements

Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", publishedinJanuary 1995
(Revised January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers'' publishedinJanuary 1997 (revised
inSeptember 1999, January 1999andMay2002) andthe provisions stipulatedinthe
Loadcredit Agreement.

B. Procurementmethods:

The methods to be used for the procurement describedbelow, andthe estimated amounts for
eachmethod are summarized inTable A. The threshold contract values for the use of each
method are shown inTable B.

Procurement of Works

Works procured under this project would normally include the Dennery Coastal protection
works, the construction of an EOC, the rehabilitation of two bridges, the rehabilitation of La
Clery main drain, small mitigationworks, the retrofittingof 3 schools and 3 health centers, the
construction of about 10satellite warehouses, and the installation of water tanks inthe retrofitted
schools, all totaling about US$6.71million equivalent (including contingencies). Major
contracts for these works estimatedto cost more than US$l millionequivalent per contract, up to
an aggregateamount of US$2.46, will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
procedures (ICB) usingBank-issued SBD. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million
equivalent per contract may be procured usingNational Competitive Biddingprocedures (NCB)
upto an aggregateamount of US$2.33 million, usingstandardbiddingdocuments agreedin
advance with the Bank. Small works, estimatedto cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.91 million, may beprocured on the basis of at least
three quotations received from localqualifiedcontractors inresponseto a written invitation,
which will include a detailed description of the works, basic specifications, the required
completion date, abasic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable.

Procurement of Goods

Goods procured under this project would include stock of gabions baskets, strong boxes for
positioning, communication equipment, and shelters emergency suppliestotaling about
US$473,000. To the extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding
packages of more than US$150,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$220,000, and
procured following ICB procedures, using Bank-issued SBD. Contracts with estimated values
below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$253,000 equivalent may
be procuredusing NationalCompetitive Biddingprocedures (NCB) usingstandardbidding


                                                33

documents (SBD) agreedwith the Bank. Contractsfor goods which cannot be grouped into
larger packages and estimatedto cost less than US$25,000 per contract, may be procured using
shopping (Nationalhternational) proceduresbasedon a model requestfor quotations
satisfactory to the Bank.

Selection of Consultants

Under this project, consulting services will be contractednormally inthe following areas of
expertise: Risk transfer, Hazardmapping, Emergency Responseplan, Emergency Shelters
Manuals, Shelter regulation, Design and Supervision of civil works, andTraining. These
services are estimated to total about US$1.59 millionequivalent and would be procuredusing
BankStandardRequestfor Proposals(RFP).

Firms

All contractsfor firms wouldbe procuredusingQCBS except for small and simple contracts
estimatedto cost less than US$lOO,OOO that would be procured using CQ/SS, up to an aggregate
amount of US$423,500 equivalent.

Contract up to a maximumamount of US$346,500 may be procured with the previous agreement
of the Bank usingsingle source selection as they represent natural continuation of previous work
satisfactorily carried out underERDMP, and as continuity for downstream work is essential (e.g.
for supervision of works designedby the specialized firms).

Individuals

Specialized advisory services would be provided by individualconsultants selectedby
comparisonsof qualifications of three candidates and hiredin accordance with the provisions of
paragraph5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of
US$185,900.

Inexceptional cases, single-sourcecontracting may beusedwith the previous agreement of the
Bank and inaccordancewith the provisionof paragraph5.4 of the consultants Guidelines, up to
an aggregate amount of US$llO,OOO.

C. OperationalCosts

PCU Staff salaries, sundry items, office supplies, utilities and other operational costs would be
financed by the loadcreditproceeds up to a total amount of US$330,000 and will be procured
under proceduresacceptableto the Bank.

D. ProcurementCapacitvAssessment

A ProcurementCapacity Assessmentwas preparedby the Procurement Specialist following a
mission to St Luciafrom January 12to 16,2004 and the report is inthe Bank's files.




                                                34

The PCUhasbeenresponsiblefor coordinatingimplementation underthe previous disaster
mitigation project (EDRMP) and is still coordinating the implementationof the ongoing ERP,
which is assisting the Government of Saint Luciato improve security in airports and seaports.
The PCUis under the MPDE&H. Though the PCUwas slow to begin activities underthe
EDRMP, it is now satisfactorily staffed and has acquired expertise inprocurement and financial
management. The expertisewas further strengthenedthrough the implementation of the ERP,
which becameeffective inAugust 2002. The PCUwill be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of this proposedproject, includingmost of the major works and buildings.

The MCWT&PU will be responsiblefor flood control works at Dennery and much of the small
mitigationworks. The Ministry of Education and the Ministryof Healthwill contract works
under their respectivejurisdictions. NEMO will implementthe Emergency Preparednessand
InstitutionalStrengthening components.

The quality and quantity of the staff of the existing PCU is good and essentialto positive
procurement implementation and administration. This assessment determinesthat ingeneral
sufficient qualified staff are available to carry out the normalprocurement tasks that would be
assignedto them. The existing staff haverelevant knowledge of the disciplines andthe capacity
requiredfor carryingout the proposedprocurement planunder the project. Dueto the fact,
however, that the PCUwould berequiredto managetwo loans at the same time, additional staff
for procurement and implementation purposesi s proposed inthe Action Plan, that takes into
consideration the specificity of the new loan.

E. Action Plan

Discussions took place with the Counterpart about any possible scenariosof a suitable action
planby loan's effectiveness and during implementation.

As aconsequence, the action plan should include:

    0   Hiringof afull time expert [as apreferenceaquantity surveyor or any expert with
        engineering,construction and supervision of works background] to assist the PCUstaff
        for the entire duration of the project. The expert should have also procurement expertise
        to support, among others, the processesof hiringindividual consultants, procuring goods,
        procuring small works and supervision of small works;
    0   Preparationby the PCUof a chapter inthe Operations Manual on procurement detailing
        all the procedures and channels of responsibilities and flow of documentation. Final to
        be approvedby effectiveness;
    0   Establishment of aprocurement filing system satisfactory to the Bankto be included in
        the OperationsManual;
    0   Preparationby the PCU of a detailed procurement plan for the first 18 months of
        implementation to be includedinthe Operations Manual (to be agreedupon by
        effectiveness);
    0   Preparationby the PCUof draft SBD for all processes to be presentedinAnnex of the
        OperationsManual (to be agreed upon by effectiveness).




                                                  35

F. Procurement Plan

Duringpre-appraisal, the Borrower developed adraft procurement planfor project
implementation, which providedthe basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement
methods (per Table A). This plan is inthe project files. The final Procurement Plan will be
submittedby the Borrower to the Bank's review and approval before negotiations andthe
beginning of each fiscal year [or earlier if requiredunder paragraph 1of Appendix 1to the Bank
Guidelines].

                           Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                                (US$ equivalent)

                                                     Procurement Method'
 ExpenditureCategory                 ICB               NCB              Other2         N.B.F3       Total Cost
 1.Works                             2.46               2.33             2.02                          6.80
                                     2.09               1.98             1.71                          5.78
 2. Goods                            0.22               0.25                                           0.47
                                     0.19               0.22                                           0.40
 3. Services                                                              1.26                          1.26


 4. OperatingExpenses                                                    0.33                          0.33


 Total                               2.68               2.58             3.60                          8.87
 BankFinanced                        2.28               2.19             3.25                          7.72
 Local Funding                       0.40               0.39             0.35                           1.14

'Figures in bold are the amounts to be financed by the Loadcredit. All costs include contingencies.
'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i)
                   managing the project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local government units.
3NotBank Financed.

                                Table A1:Consultant Selection Arrangements
                                                (US$ equivalent)

 ConsultantServices                                Selection Method
 Expenditure Category              QCBS              CQ            0ther          N.B.F          Total Cost
 A. Firms                           0.55             0.52                                           1.07
                                    0.44             0.39                                           0.83
 B. Individuals                                                     0.19                            0.19
                                                                    0.14                            0.19
 Total                              0.55             0.52           0.19                             1.26
 BankFinanced                       0.44             0.39           0.14                            0.97
Local Funding                       0.11             0.13           0.04                            0.28



                                                          36

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and Prior Review



                              Contract Value  Procurement
  ExpenditureCategory        Threshold (US$)    Method       Contracts Subjectto Prior Review
                               > 1,000,000        ICB                      All
                                                                     >$300,000 All
  1.Works                      < 1,000,000       NCB                <$300,000 None
                               < 150,000      3 Quotations                First

  2. Goods                     > 150,000          ICB                      All
                                >25,000          NCB                     First2
                                <25,000         Shopping                  None
~~

  3. ConsultingServices      > 100,000Firms      QCBS                      All
                               < 100,000         CQ/SS                 TORs only
                                >50,000       Guidelines V                 All
                               <50,000 IC     Guidelines V             TORs only




                 Total Value of Contracts subject to prior review: $5,608,000 (71%)

                   Total Number of Contracts subject to prior review: 19 over 103


  G. Frequencyof procurement supervision

  Inaddition to the prior review supervision to becarried out from Bankoffices, the capacity
  assessment of the PCUhas recommendedone full supervision mission every year to carry out
  post-review of procurement actions. Basedon the overall risk assessment (AVERAGE)the post-
  review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than 1in 10contracts signed.




                                                 37

                           Annex 9: Economicand Financial Analysis
                         ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagement Project I1

1. EconomicAnalysis

Overview

The economy of Saint Luciais estimatedto have grown by 0.5% inrealterms during 2002, after
declining by 5.2% in 2001. Prior to 2001, the economy hadexperiencedmore than a decade of
uninterrupted growth averaging 2.2%. The recent decline i s attributed to the reduction inthe
tourism industrydue to the terrorist attacks on the UnitedStateson September 11,2001. This
event, coupled with the fact that the recent changes inthe EUimport preferenceregime and the
increasedcompetition from Latin American bananas, has made economic diversification an
increasingly important consideration for Saint Lucia. The island nation has been able to attract
foreign business and investment, especially inits offshore bankingandtourism industries.

The real value addedof the hotel and restaurant sub-sectors, a major aspect of the tourism sector,
i s estimatedto have increasedby 1.3% in2002. The contributionof the industry to real GDP
was 12.2% in 2002, and was the leading activity inthe traded sector. Arrivals of stay-over
guests continue to increase, as Saint Lucia sees results from increasedpromotionof the
destination. Saint Lucia also has a substantialnumber of short tendexcursionist arrivals from the
cruise ships arrivinginCastries. The average number of cruise ship arrivals for the period 1999
to 2002 is over 466,000 per annum.

Interms of tourism activities, Dennery lies at acrucialpoint on the island. Dennery is midway
betweenthe international airport at Vieux Fort and the resort areajust north of Castries-
Passengers for the over 10,000 international flights that arrive at the Hewanorra Airport inVieux
Fort have to pass through Dennery to arrive at their accommodation. Interms of cruise ship
excursionists, many of the tours, which center around "Heritage Tourism" (a combination of eco-
tourism and culturaltourism), for example the Frigate Bay Nature Reserve, take place inthe
south of the country. Dennery i s a logical short stop for these excursionists for refreshment and
fresh air.

The village already capitalizes on the location duringits Saturday NightFishFiesta, where
patrons may on average spendbetweenEC$50 and EC$80per person. Since the project is
intended to protect and enhance the beachfront lands, it i s anticipated that along the beachsite
there will be resulting additional recreational and commercial opportunities.

The preservation of the mainroad through the village i s also crucial, as it serves as a main link
for commercial andtourism trade betweenthe village and the international airport, as well as the
nation's capital. Itis vital that the road link remains intact, as facilitated by the project. A
disruption of road communications would have materialeffect on commercial and social
activities for the village.




                                                  38

CostBenefit Analysis

A complete economic cost benefit analysiswas conductedto determine the economic viability of
the Dennery component, as it i s the most significant component to be financed by the project,
representing approximately 50% of all physical works to be constructed. The analysis presented
inthis Annex demonstratesthe overall viability of this component. Apart from the detailed
economic cost benefit analysiscarried out for the Dennery village coastal protection works, no
economic analysis was warrantedfor the other physical civil works components of the project
due to their relative small individual amounts of investment required for their implementation,
generally less than US$500,000.

To determine the net incremental costs andbenefits, "with" and "without" project scenarioswere
constructed. On the basis of these scenarios, the net incremental financial benefits and costs of
the proposed investment were assessed and were then adjustedfor the impact of taxes, subsidies,
andexternalities to arrive at the economic flow of costs andbenefits. The cashflows were
discounted usinga discount rate of 12percent, which i s estimatedto be a proxy of Saint Lucia's
opportunity cost of capital. The following sections provide more detailed information on the
estimation of economic benefits and costs.

Technical project designincluded a detailedleast cost analysis for each of the different
subcomponentsthat are part of the proposed works, and detailed analysis of the works neededto
protect Dennery village. Finalproject design includes two packagesof works divided intwo
phases. Specifically, inPhase I,  the protection of the "front line" residents and infrastructure
along High Street was mandatedas being a priority. This is achieved through the design of a
buriedrevetment. The works to becarried out underPhase Iinclude:
        Construction of a 415m longburiedrevetment, with crest level at +2.0 mto guard against
        storm surge, starting from the Dennery River inthe south and going as far north as
        approximately opposite St. Peter's Church.
        River training works along the Dennery River from the bridge with the highway,
       eastwardsto the mouth of the river. The primary intentionof these works i s to increase
        the height of the northriver bank, thereby reducing flooding potential for the people of
       the village.
        Canal training works for the Trou a L'Eau Ravine at the north end of the village. These
        works are intended primarily to increasethe carryingcapacity of this drain, thereby
       reducing the potential for flooding at this north end of the village.
       An ongoing component of this phasewill be the clearing of the mouthof the Dennery
       River (approximately 500 m3),and the placement of that sand on the beach infront of the
       revetment, in the south-central part of the beach.

InPhase11,three offshore breakwaters are to be constructed. These are intendedto provide
protection to the shoreline intheir lee through the reduction of wave action. The structures are
not, however, intendedto shut off all wave action and consequently, sediment movement. In
addition, these breakwatersare intended to mitigate somewhat, the effect that the Daitohas had
inreducingthe southerly transport of sandalong the beach, through the lesseningof the gradient
for sandtransport along the entire beach. The works to be carried out under PhaseIIinclude:




                                                 39

    0   Construction of three (3) offshore breakwaters, each 50m, 50m and 60m respectively,
        going from the southto the north.
    0   Construction of an armoredberm, at the north end of the bay, andimmediately north of
        the Daito.
    0   Fillingbehindthe berm, to create alandfill area at an elevation of +1.5m.
    0   Extension of the ravine southdrainwall, east of the roadbridge, by 54m.
    0   Raising the northwall of the ravine, east of the roadbridge, for a distance of 50m.
    0   Construction of a revetment along the north boundary of the village, for a linear distance
        of 50m. This revetment will be built with a crest elevation of +2m to protect against
        storm surge.

Benefits

The primary objectives of the proposedinvestment are the preservationof beachfront property,
the mitigation of beacherosion at the project site, the protection of the existing costal road at
Dennery, the reduction of flooding problems for the community and the provision of economic
opportunities for the community that may helpinpoverty alleviation. The project is intendedto
provide a number of benefits to the economy, which will span social, cultural, economic and
commercial activities. Inaddition, the project will ensure the free movement of people and
goods between the village and the North and South of the country, especially of tourists, the
main contributor to GDP.

For this analysis, the mainquantifiable benefits were considered to be as follows:


    0   Avoidable road reconstructioncosts assuminga substantial storm event every ten years
        that couldresult instorm surgeflooding androad damage;
    0   Loss incommercial revenuefrom consumption of food and services along the project site
        iftherewere nobeacharea andtherewas adiversion away from the coastline of the
        village.

Other benefits, such as the cost of relocatingresidents inthe event of a storm, the opportunity
cost of the increasedvehicle operating costs if there was a diversion, the aesthetic and
recreational benefits, or the cost of reconstructing damage to the Daito facility were
conservatively not considered.

Social surveys conductedinthe Dennery area indicated that the residents would welcome
increasedopportunities for employment within the area. Based on the substantial contribution
that the hotel and restaurantsector makes to GDP, it is foreseen that the opportunity exists for the
current food services providedto be expandedover the project period. One possible area for
expansion of servicescould, for example, be a restaurant on Dennery Island, with a ferry service
to it. A number of other opportunities exist.

Road Reconstruction

It is assumed that a storm event that will substantially damage the roadwill occur approximately
once every ten years. The average road reconstruction cost i s EC$1.5 million per kilometer


                                                  40

(2003 constant prices). The potential road frontage that couldbe damagedis estimatedto be 500
meters. It is also assumedthat the capital works will also reduce road maintenanceresulting
from flooding due to the river action andto sea surges, which may substantially damage sections
of roadevery other year.

TourismRevenue

The village already capitalizes on the locationduring its SaturdayNight FishFiesta, where
patrons may on average spendbetweenEC$50 and EC$80 per person. Since the project i s
intended to protect andenhance the beachfront lands, it is anticipated that along the beach site
there will be resultingadditional recreational and commercial opportunities.
The projection of the benefit streams derived from the sale of food inDennery is basedon an
economic model assuming:
    0   That 12% of personson the way to the airport stop for a light snack or drink only,
        spending EC$12perperson, andonly stopping one way;
    0   That 15% of the cruise ship passengers are excursionists traveling south, and of these,
        30% stop for a snack or lunch, spendingEC$15 each;
    0   That the existing SaturdayNight FishFiesta serves 62 meals per week, at EC$40,
        growing to a maximumcarrying capacity of 250 meals per week by 2007 due to the
        upgrading of facilities and marketing, andthen growing at a real rate of 1%per annum
        thereafter.
    0   That the value addedor profit margin is 40% of the revenue gained, basedon the low
        import content of the meals served. Saint Luciahas its own rumdistillery, brewery, and
        drink bottlingcompany, andwouldbe serving mostlylocalfishdishes.

costs

The financial project investment andoperation andmaintenance costs were converted to
economic prices, adjusting for distortions such as taxes and subsidies. Detailed information
about the calculation of the conversion factors usedinthe analysis is available inthe consultant's
report inthe project files.

Results of the Analysis

The analysis yielded an economic rateof returnof 23%, and an economic net present value of
EC$ 3.85 million benefiting to the economy of Saint Lucia, basedon a hurdlerate of 12%
representingthe opportunity cost of capital. The assumptions underlyingthe ERRcalculations
are listedbelow:

    1.   The analysisi s basedon 2003 constant prices.
    2.   The analysisperiod is 25 years.
    3.   Without the project, the costal road remains vulnerable and will be underminedonce a
         major storm occurs (approximately every 10years). The net cost of reconstruction is
         EC$1.5 million per kilometer and 500 meters of the roadruns along the beachfront.
    4.   The financial cost of implementing the Project has been convertedto equivalent
         economic cost by the application of standard conversion factors.



                                                41

   5.   The reconstructioncost of the roadis net of annualrepairs andmaintenance.
   6.   Tourism losses avoided are assumed to be amountsthat are normally spent by tourists
        visiting Dennery and other communes.
   7.   The residual value of the project is 40% of the capital costs.
   8.   The general and preliminary items havebeencapitalized.
   9.   The tourism figures are projected usinghistorical data on aircraft arrivals and cruise
        shippassengers.
   10. Tourism lossesavoided are calculated basedon the following assumptions:
          -    That 12%of persons on the way to the airport stop for a light snack or drink only,
               spending EC$12 per person, and only stopping one way
          -    That 15%of the cruise ship passengers are excursionists traveling South, and of
               these, 30% stop for a snack or lunch, spendingEC$15
          -    That the existing Saturday NightFishFiesta serves 62 meals per week, at EC$40,
               growing to a maximumcarrying capacity of 250 mealsper week by 2007 due to
               the upgrading of facilities andmarketing, and then growing at a real rate of 1%
               per annumthereafter.
          -    That the value addedor profit margin is 40% of the revenue gained, basedon the
               low import content of the meals served. Saint Lucia has its own rumdistillery,
               brewery, drink bottling company, andwould be serving mostly localfish dishes


2. Financial

This analysis is not applicable, since it is anot-revenue generatingproject.




                                                  42

                                Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                        ST. LUCIA: LCDisaster Management Project I1

                                 Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet

I.A.l. Project Statistics

Country:                Saint Lucia
Project ID:             PO86469
Project:                Saint Lucia - DisasterManagement 11
Task Team Leader:       Francis Ghesquiere

I.A.2. Project Objectives:

The project aims at further reducing the country's vulnerability to adversenatural events
(hurricane, floods, etc.) through investment inrisk managementactivities. As such, the
objectives of the project are to further strengthen (a) infrastructure against the impact of adverse
to natural events (hurricanes, flooding, etc.) through the implementation of physical mitigation
measures; (b) the responsecapacity incase of adversenatural event (hurricane, flooding, etc)
through capacity building, equipmentpurchaseand investment inemergency infrastructure; and
(c) the institutional capacity of the various ministries and agencies dealing with disaster
managementthrough the provision of adequate facilities, criticalequipment, technical assistance
and training.

I.A.3. Project Description:

Component I:Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works (a) Coastal protection works for
                                                               -
Dennery Village. The village of 5,000 inhabitants i s located on the east coast andi s vulnerable
to floods; (b) rehabilitation andreconstruction of two vulnerable bridges; (c) drainage, river
walls and slope stabilization includingrehabilitation of the La Clery Main DraidRavine and
implementation of smallmitigationworks, with gabion rubble walls and slope protection; (d)
retrofitting of three schools and providingthem with emergency equipment, sanitary facilities
andimproveddrainage; (e) retrofittingof healthcenters to ensurethat they can assist
communities during disasters; (f) procurement of additional stock of gabion baskets, mattresses
and geotextile for use inthis project and inthe future; and (g) training and capacity buildingfor
the Technical Service Division of the Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public
Utilities (MCWT&PU) which i s responsible for implementingand maintainingphysical
prevention andmitigation works.




                                                  43

Component2: StrengtheningEmergency Preparedness and Response - (a) Construction of the
Emergency Operation Center (EOC) and Central Warehouse for emergency equipment and
supplies; (b) construction of additional satellite warehouses throughout the country to store
emergency equipment andsupplies; (c) installation of water tanks inshelters; (d) technical
assistance and training for the National Emergency Management Office (NEMO), including
emergency shelter manuals, shelter regulations, training in shelter management,
telecommunication & supply management andpreparationof aNationalEmergency Response
Plan andproductionof video on preparation for disasters; and (e) specialized disaster
equipment: (i)   strong box for pre-positioning items; (ii) emergency supplies; and (iii)
                                                          shelter
additional communications equipment.

Component3: Institutional Strengthening (a) Buildingcode training and sensitization; (b)
                                              -
technical assistance and training interritorial planning; (c) vulnerability assessment and hazard
mapping; and (d) studies of vulnerability and risk transfer of government assets.

Component4: Project Management (a) Technical assistance to the Project Coordination Unit
                                        -
and office equipment and project managementservices; and (b) technical audits.

I.A.4. Project Location: The project will be carried out throughout the island of Saint Lucia;
site selection for small works have beenbasedon the following criteria:
 (i)Specificriskexposuretonaturaldisasters(flood,winddamage,landslips,etc);
 (ii) Strategic importance of infrastructure at risk; and
 (iii)Probable Community participation inthe works.

Environmental Classification: B (PartialAssessment)

Comments: The proposedproject will finance vulnerability reduction works andsome
institutional strengthening. Overall it is expectedthat it will have a beneficial impact on the
environment. One safeguard has beentriggered as a result of the FloodProtection Works at
Dennery Village. These works were of sufficient magnitude to be classified as category "B" for
the purpose of OP 4.01Environmental Assessment. The remaining works plannedunder the
program are considered category C. No other policies have been triggered.

As the program of works develops, an additional screening procedure has beendeveloped for use
by the PCUto assure that future works proposed do not trigger environmental safeguards. Ifthis
should occur, the PCUwill reject the proposal or require compliance with Bank and Saint Lucian
environmental policy. Given the nature of the works contemplated, this i s an unlikely scenario.




                                                  44

Policy Triggered:

EnvironmentalAssessment (OP4.01, BP4.01, GP4.01)
(*) Yes
ON0
()TBD

NaturalHabitats(OP4.04, BP4.04, GP4.04)
( Yes
(*>No
()TBD

Forestry(OP4.36, GP4.36)
() Yes
(*) No
()TBD

PestManagement(OP4.09)
()Yes
(*) No
( TBD

CulturalProperty(OPN11.03)
(*) Yes
ON0
( 1TBD

Noparticular issue is foreseen on CulturalProperty. However, since the project includes works,
it wasjudged prudent to trigger OPN 11:03 (currently beingrevisedas OP4.11j. Special guidelines
anda screeningprocessfor small mitigationworks havebeendevelopedto detectpossible
impacts on archaeological or historical sites and ensuringcompliance with OPN 11.03.

IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)
( Yes
(*>No
()TBD

InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)
( Yes
("1 No
( TBD

Safetyof Dams (OP4.37, BP4.37)
( 1Yes
(*>No
( ) TBD



                                                45

Projects inInternational Waters (OP7.50, BP7.50, GP7.50)
()Yes
("1 No
(1TBD

Projects inDisputed Areas (OP7.60, BP7.60, GW.60)*
( Yes
("1 No
( )TBD


Section I1 Key Safeguard Issuesand Their Management
            -
1I.D.la. Describeany safeguardissues and impactsassociatedwith the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.

OP.4.01 Environmental Assessment (EA):

The project will finance the construction of flood protection works inthe village of Dennerv on
the Atlantic coast of the Island. These works consist of the construction of (i)400 meter long
                                                                                 a
buriedstone revetment that will enhance the shoreline and protect the residenceslocated along
the beach; (ii) break waters of approximately 70 meters long each designedto reduce
               three
erosion and scouring actions, and improve sandreplenishment along the shoreline; (iii)
reclamation of about 2000 sq. mof landat the Northern side of the site, including75 meter long
stone beam to protect the reclaimed landfrom sea surge; (iv) appropriate bank revetment along
critical segments of two rivers delaminating the Southern andNorthernpart of the village; and
(v) works aimed at enhancing the drainage systemin and around the village. The proposed
program of works was designedafter extensive community consultation and an Environment
Impact Assessment. After review of the engineering designdocumentation, andenvironmental
analysis, no significant negative impacts were identified which could not be mitigated.
Generally the socio-economic impacts are wholly positiveresultinginimprovedcoastal
protection and reduction ineconomic loss. These works also serve to partially mitigate the
negative effects of coastalerosion resulting from the construction of the Dennery harbor and fish
processingcenter in 1992. This contributed to a change inbay hydraulics adversely affecting the
natural replenishment of sand along the bay margins. Bank stabilization works along the
Dennery river are largely to repair existing structures and rehabilitate the existing bank system.
Improveddrainage will reduce negative health impacts resulting from standing water improving
mosquito control reducing the needfor pesticide controls.

The project will also finance the construction of anEmergency Operation Center (EOC), the
retrofittingof schools andhealthcenters, andthe continuation of a programof small mitigation
works; includingthe construction or repair of retention walls, river wall protections, drains, and
the retrofittingof public buildings and three bridges.




                                                 46

1I.D.lb. Describe any potentialcumulative impactsdue to applicationof more thanone
safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.

NIA

1I.D.lc. Describe any potentiallong term impactsdue to anticipated future activities inthe
project area.

Inthe case of the Dennery coastaldefenses, impacts are expectedto reducecatastrophicproperty
loss from severe storm damage, reduce coastalerosion and reduce the pressurefor relocation
along the marginsof the adjacentriver watersheds. The limited beachreclamation will restore
the communities principalrecreation area generally improving local quality of life. Impacts are
limited to the Dennery Bay area with no impacts identifiedaffecting areas beyondthe Dennery
community. This i s due to the fact that the bay is a wholly closedhydraulic system.

II.D.2. In light of 1,describe the proposedtreatment of alternatives (if required)

Flood Protection Work at Dennery: Five scenarios were analyzedto evaluate how best to protect
the area. These are:

Option 1: Do Nothing
Option 2: SandManagement
Option 3: BuriedRevetmendsandManagemendRiver BanProtection
Option4: Same as 3 with one Breakwater
Option 5: Same as 3 with two Breakwaters

Option six was createdfrom the options presentedafter extensive consultation with the Dennery
community andconcurrencewith environmental and engineering review.

Option 6: Same as 5 with LimitedLandReclamation and ImprovedDrainage

II.D.3. Describearrangement for the borrowerto address safeguard issues:

Dennery Village FloodProtection Works: An Environmental Impact Assessment (EN) has been
prepared; includinga social assessment and stakeholdersworkshop has beenconducted. The
proposedprogram of works has beendeveloping inconsultation with the Dennery community,
so as to minimize environmental degradation and avoidresettlement. The environmental impact
assessment shows that there is strong demand for the project from the Dennery residentswho are
at risk of experiencing damage to their businesses, homes and properties incase of sea swells,
storm waves andfloods. According to the study, many of the residentsplace a high social value
on living intheir present location, which would be protected if the project were implemented.

Small Mitigation Works: Project preparation included an Environmental Assessment to identify
key elements that mustbe evaluated andconsidered duringproject locationand design. These
guidelines and screeningprocessfor small mitigationworks will be capable of detecting possible
impacts on archaeological or historical sites and ensuring compliance with OPN 11.03. The EA
report to be included inthe Operations Manualconsists o f


                                                47

    a. A PCUproject implementation procedurefor environmental management of small works
        activities. This requires special attention basedon the Bank's environmental and social
        safeguardpolicies and integratesrequirementsrecentpromulgated under Saint Lucian
        law.
    b. Environmental guidelinesand screeningprocessdescribingproceduresto befollowedto
        comply with the Bank's safeguardpolicies; these guidelines result inthe incorporation of
        contract clauses to be includedincontracts issuedunderthe program of small mitigation
        works. This processapplies to small works activities such as construction or repair of
        retention walls, river wall protections, drains, andthe retrofitting of public buildings and
        three bridges.

Capacity Building: Through experience acquired inthe implementation of past and on-going
operations, the PCUis aware of the Banks policy on environmental impact. The project also
includes strengthening of the capacity of the MCWT&PU to address disaster risk inits
infrastructure program, and inparticular ways to prevent or address environment degradation.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders anddescribe the mechanisms for consultationand
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.

Dennery Village FloodProtection Works: The primarybeneficiaries will be the low income
Dennery community, local authorities, and local civil society that have been closely involvedin
the development of the proposed mitigationmeasures. Extensive public consultations were held
with the community which resulted in the development of the engineering approachthat was
chosen.

Additional Small MitigationWorks have generally been identified at the request of local
communities. Inmany cases, works will be implemented with strong community participation
and will result inthe strengthening or hardeningof existingworks against severe storm events.
If screeningprocedurerevealsthatasafeguardmightbetriggered,theprojectiseither
   the
rejectedor the review requirements under Bank policy and Saint Lucian law will be triggered
under PCUimplementation procedures. These require public consultation with affected groups.
As these projects relate to evacuation centers, protection of transportation corridors and
mitigationof flood impacts, the stakeholders include all levels of society with particular benefit
realizedby economically disadvantagedsegments unable to provide for their own proper
protection.

E. SAFEGUARDS CLASSIFICATION:

[ ] S1. ? Significant, cumulative andor irreversible impacts; or significant
     technical and institutionalrisks inmanagementof one or more safeguard
     areas
[XI S2. ? One or more safeguardpolicies are triggered, but effects are limited
     intheir impact andare technically andinstitutionallymanageable
[ ] S3. ? No safeguardissues
[ ] SF. ? Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community
     driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
     framework or programmatic approachto address safeguard issues.


                                                  48

Ifin-countrydisclosureofanyoftheabovedocumentsisnotexpected,pleaseexplainwhy.

Signed and submitted by
Task Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere, Urban Specialist

Project Safeguards
Specialists 1: Juan Quintero, LeadEnvironment Specialist, LCSEN

Project Safeguards
Specialists 2: Gerald Meier, Environment Consultant

Project Safeguards
Specialists 3:




                                            49

                       Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                      ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagement Project I1

                                                    Planned           Actual
PCNreview                                         10/24/2003        10/28/2003
InitialPID to PIC                                                   11/03/2003
InitialISDS to PIC                                                  11/06/2003
Appraisal                                         03/26/2004        05/04/2004
Negotiations                                      04/26/2004        05/05/2004
BoardRVP approval                                 06/22/2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                      0810112004
Planneddate of mid-termreview                     0911512006
Plannedclosing date                               06/30/2009

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:

NationalEmergency Management Office
Ministry of Physical Development, Environment and Housing
Ministry of Education, HumanResourcesDevelopment, Youth and Sports
Ministry of Health, Human Services and Family Affairs
Ministry of Communications, Works Transport and Public Utilities
Ministry of Finance andEconomic Affairs


Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                           Title                  Unit
Francis Ghesquiere                      UrbanSpecialist             LCSFU
Maryse Gautier                        Sr. Urban Specialist          LCSFU
GCrardLiautaud                            Civil Engineer            Consultant
Gerald Meier                         Environment Specialist         Consultant
MariaAngClica Sotomayor                    Economist                LCSFW
Juan Quintero                     LeadEnvironment Specialist        LCSEN


Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources:         US$75,000
    2. Trust funds:            US$       0
    3. Total:                  U S$75,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcosts to effectiveness: US$50,000
    2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$95,000




                                                50

                      Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File
                  ST. LUCIA: LCDisaster ManagementProject I1


1. ProjectProposal, Governmentof Saint Lucia, September 2003.
2. Review of EnvironmentalImpactAssessment inSelectedCountriesinLatinAmerica and
   the Caribbean, Methodology, ResultsandTrends, Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
   (IADB),Centerfor DevelopmentStudies,2001.
3. NaturalHazardRiskManagement inthe Caribbean: Revisitingthe Challenge,The World
   Bank,June2002.
4. Draft NationalDisaster Plan, NationalEmergencyManagementOffice (NEMO),
   December 2003
5. EnvironmentGuidelinesfor SmallWorks (Report of the EnvironmentSpecialist),
   February2004.
6. EnvironmentImpactAssessment for the proposedCoastalprotectionWorks at Dennery
   Village, SmithWarner International,February2004.
7. FinalDesignReportfor DenneryFloodProtectionWorks, SmithWarner International,
   October 2003.
8. Assessment of the Risktransfer Componentby RobertMuir-Wood, RiskManagement
   Solutions, Inc. (RMS), February2004.




                                        51

                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                    ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagementProjectI1

                                                                                                                       Differencebetween
                                                                                                                       expectedandactual
                                                                Original Amount inUS$Millions                            disbursements

Project ID   FY    Purpose                                  IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.     Fm.Rev'd

PO77712     2002   6 0 LC Education(APLOl)                      6.00      6.00    0.00      0.00    0.00     12.64      3.66        0.00
PO70244     2002   LC Water Sector Reform Tech Assist           1.30      1.30    0.00      0.00    0.00     2.27       0.96        0.00
PO77687     2002   Saint LuciaEmergencyRecoveryProject          1.89     4.41     0.00      0.00    0.00      3.15      0.25        0.00
PO54939     2000   LC- POVERTY REDUCTION FUND                   1.50      1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.44       0.36        0.00
                                                     Total:    10.69     13.21    0.00      0.00    0.00     18.50      5.23        0.00




                                                               ST. LUCIA
                                                        STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                                Committed                                Disbursed
                                                               IFC                                      IFC
        FY Approval    Company                     Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.   Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.




                                 Total portfolio:   0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                             ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                       FY Approval    Company                            Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                            Total pendingcommitment:      0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                     52

                                              Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                                ST. LUCIA: LCDisasterManagementProjectI1


POVERTYand SOCIAL
                                                           St. Lucia  & Carib.      income      Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                                    0.16      527         331                    Lifeexpectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                              3,750    3,280         5,040
GNI (Maas method, US$ billions)                                  0.60   1,727         1,668
Average annual growth, 199602                                                                                       T
Population(%)                                                     1 4       1 5         1 2
Laborforce (%)                                                              2 2         1 8     GNI                                          Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                           per                                       primary
                                                                                                capita                                 nrollment
     rty (% ofpopulation belownationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulahon)                             38        76          75
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                  71        71          73                           1
      mortality(per 1,000live births)                              13       27          19
      malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                                       9                       Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwatersource P'     ofpopulation)              98        86          90
                                                                            11
                                                                 106       130
                                                                 105       131         106
   Female                                                        108       128          105

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                                                  II
                                                   1982         1992     2001         2002      Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                   014          046      065          066
Gross domestic Investment'GDP                       33.5         24 1     161          170
Exports of goods andservices/GDP                    576          677      55 2                                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                           7.4         153      145
Gross national savingdGDP                           16.0         122      103                                        T


Currentaccount balance/GDP                         -25 4        -11 8      -5 8
Interestpayments/GDP                                 0 4          0 9       1 4                 3omestic                    + Investment
Total debffGDP                                      11 9         205      36.4                  savings
Total debt setvice/exports                            1 4         3 3       6.6
Present value of debffGDP                                                 35 4
Presentvalue of deWexports                                                59.7
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02            2001     2002      2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        9 2        1 2        -63       0.0                              St. Lucia
GDP per capita                             7 6      -0.3         -7 6      -1 2                     -Upper-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods andsewices               120        -1.0        -11.3       1 2


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                   1982         1992     2001         2002    IGrowthof    investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                                                         h
Agriculture                                         13.9         13.4       6.3         6.7     2o

Industry                                            20.8        20.0      18.8         18.8
  Manufacturing                                      9.1          7.5      4.9          5.0     1;

Services                                            65.3        66.7      74.6         74.5    11;
Privateconsumption                                  68.5        70.2      68.6         70.5    -30
General governmentconsumption                       24.0        14.6      16.9         16.5
Imports of goods and services                       83.8        76.5                                       -GDI            ' I O I G D P



                                                1982-92 1992-02
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                          6.4         -6.6   -24.4           7.2    'O

lndustly                                            10.2          1.5     -3.7         -0.6
  Manufacturing                                      9.6         -0.8     -4.9          1.2
Services                                                                                       .;
                                                     7.1         2.3       -3.7        -1.1
                                                                                              -10
Privateconsumption                                   9.9          1.5     -6.0          4.6   -15
General governmentconsumption                        4.2         2.4       4.9          0.7   -20
Gross domestic investment                            9.9         -1.8   -26.9           7.6              -~xports          - O l l m p o r t s
Imports of goods and services                       11.1         -1.2   -16.4           5.3

Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its incomegroup average. If data are missing,the diamondwill
  be incomolete.




                                                                      53

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                       1982  1992  2001   2002
Domesticprices                                                   Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                                                   I
Consumerprices                          4.6   5.6   2.5    2.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                    5.8   3.5    1.3   1.a
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                              25.5  25.3   23.3
Current budget balance                        6.8   2.6   -0.3
Overallsurpiuddeficit                        -1.4   -4.6  -8.3

TRADE
                                       1982  1992  2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                     Exportand importlevels( U S mill.)
Totalexports (fob)                       42   129    52    71
 Bananas                                 16    68    15     17  350
 Fruitsand vegetables                     0     1      1     1  300
 Manufactures                            15    31    11    26   250
Total imports(cif)                      118  308    311   333  m
 Food                                    25    59    85    69   150

 Fueland energy                          14    16    15     16  I W

 Capital goods                           20                       50
                                               66    61    65      0

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                  110     95    94
Importpriceindex (1995=100)                    94    84
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    116    113

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                       1982  1992  2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                     Currentaccountbalanceto GDP(%)             c
Exportsof goods andservices              86  324    357    361    0
Importsof goods and services            135  366    368   387     2
Resourcebalance                         -49   -42   -10    -26    4
Netincome                                -1   -30   -41    -43    -6
Netcurrenttransfers                      14    16    14     13    a

Currentaccount balance                  -37   -56   -37    -56  -10
                                                                -12
Financingitems (net)                    39    60     47    48    -14
Changesinnet reserves                    -2    -3   -10      7  -16
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$mi//ions)       8   54     87    80
Conversionrate (DEC,loCalAJS$)          2.7   2.7   2.7    2.7

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                       1982  1992  2001   2002
(US$millions)                                                      :ompositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebt outstanding anddisbursed      17    98    236   414
  IBRD                                   0      0     5      5
  IDA                                    0     4     12    20                        A 5 8 2 0

Total debtservice                         1   12     25    98
  IBRD                                   0     0      1      1
  IDA                                                                                                 83
                                         0     0      0      0
Compositionof netresourceRows                                        G. 204

  Officialgrants                         4     5     18      0
  Officialcreditors                                                                                   E 18
                                         2    22     -5     10
  Privatecreditors                       0     -1     7    30
  Foreigndirect investment              27    41     51      0
  Portfolioequity                        0     0      0      0
Wotid Bank program
  Commitments                            0     0      0    12      - IBRD                        E Bilaterd
  Disbursements                          0     4      1     8        IDA                        F Private
                                                                                                  --
                                                                   ~        D. Othermultilateral
  Principal repayments                   0     0      1      1       IMF
                                                                    ~                           G. Short-term
  Netflows                               0     4      0      7
  Interestpayments                       0     0      0      0
  Nettransfers                           0     4      0      7


DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                    4/8/04




                                                 54





