                                                                                                OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                         IDA/R2008-0233/1

                                                                                                                   June 25, 2008




                                                                                     Streamlined Procedure
                                                                                           For meeting of
                                                                                Board: Tuesday, July 15, 2008



FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary


                                St. Lucia - Disaster Management Project II

                                                Additional Financing

                                                     Project Paper


         Attached is the Project Paper regarding a proposed additional financing credit to Saint
Lucia for a Disaster Management Project II (IDA/R2008-0233). This project will be taken up a
meeting of the Executive Directors on Tuesday, July 15, 2008 under the Streamlined
Procedure.



Distribution:
 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                        Documentof
                                     The WorldBank

                               FOR OFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo:44002-LC




                                    PROJECTPAPER

                                           ONA

                  PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                       INTHEAMOUNT OFSDRl.9 MILLION
                            (US$3MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO

                                      SAINT LUCIA

                                         FORTHE

                       DISASTERMANAGEMENTPROJECTI1

                                       June 17,2008




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion


T h i s document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without
WorldBank authorization.

                       CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                  (ExchangeRateEffectiveApril 16,2008)
                       Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
                     EC$(XCD)2.65       = US$1
                           US$0.377     = EC$ (XCD) 1
                            US$1.64     = SDR 1
                            SDR0.61 = U S $ l

                               FISCALYEAR
                          January 1     - December31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF       Additional Financing
APL      Adaptable ProgramLoan
DO       DevelopmentObjectives
DMP I1   Disaster Management Project IUSecond Disaster Management Project
EA       EnvironmentalAssessment
EL4      EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
EOC      Emergency Operations Center
ERDMP    Emergency Recovery and Disaster Management Project
GOSL     Government of Saint Lucia
IBRD     International Bankfor Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International DevelopmentAssociation
INTOSAI  International Organizationof Supreme Audit Institutions
IP       ImplementationProgress
ISDS     IntegratedSafeguards Data Sheet
ISR      InterimStatus Report
LCR      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
MCWT&PU  Ministry of Communications, Works, Transport and Public Utilities
MOE      Ministry of Education and Culture
MOEA     Ministryof Economic Affairs, EconomicPlanning, InvestmentandNational
         Development
MOF      Ministry of Finance
M O H    Ministry of Health, Wellness, HumanServices, Family Affairs, Gender
         Relations, andNational Mobilization
MOPD     Ministry of Physical Development
NEMO     NationalEmergency Management Office
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
OECS     Organizationof Eastern Caribbean States
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
SOE      Statement of Expenditures
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
XCD      Eastern Caribbean Dollar

                        Vice President: Pamela Cox
            Country ManagedDirector: Yvonne M.Tsikata
                        Sector Director: Laura Tuck
                       Sector Manager:   GuangZ. Chen
                    Task Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere

                                        ii

                                                                                         FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                              TABLEOFCONTENTS

                                                                                                                        Page

         IINTRODUCTION
          .                      ....................................................................................       1

         I1 BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING
           .                                                                                                        ..........1
         I11 PROPOSEDCHANGES
            .                                .......................................................................        6

         IV .CONSISTENCYWITH ...................................................................
                                            CAS                                                                             9

         V APPRAISAL OFSCALED-UPPROJECT
           .                                                          ...............................................      10

         VI .EXPECTEDOUTCOMES...................................................................                           14

         VI1 BENEFITSAND RISKS
             .                                .....................................................................        14

         VI11 FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONSFORTHE ADDITIONAL
              .
         FINANCING       .......................................................................................          16

         Annex 1: Project Costs..............................................................................              17

         Annex 2: Summary o f Additional Financing Procurement Plan......................................                  18

         Annex 3: Safeguard Policy Issues..................................................................                19

         Annex 4: Results Framework and Monitoring...................................................                      25

         Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule and Team Composition........................................                 31




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.




                                                              iii


                     Additional FinancingProject Paper Data Sheet
         Saint Lucia DisasterManagement Project11: Additional Financing
                       LatinAmerica and the Caribbean Region

Date: June 17, 2008                              Team Leader: Francis Ghesquiere
Country: Saint Lucia                             Sector Manager: Guang Z. Chen
Project Name: Additional Financing for the       Sector Director: Laura Tuck
Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project I1 Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
Project ID:P111708                               Environmental Category: B




Annual         0.8            1.5                0.7
                    ~


Cumulative     0.8            2.3                3.O
Current Closing Date: December 31,2009




Does the project include and criticalrisks rated "substantial" or "high"? o Yes X No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Yes




                     Source                        Local         Foreign       Total
Borrower                                            0.96           0.0         0.96
[BRD/IDA                                            3.00           0.0         3.OO


                                            iv


I.Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide Additional
Financing (AF) in the amount of SDR 1.9 million (US$ 3 million equivalent) to the
Government of Saint Lucia (GOSL), to be funded with equivalent amounts of an IDA
credit and to be used for the Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project I1(Project ID
P086469) - Loan72380-SLU/Credit 39360-SLU.

2. The proposed AF credit for the Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project I1 (DMPII)
would scale up investments in Component 1: Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works
(90% of project funds) and would allocate additional project funds to Component 4:
Project Management (10% of project funds). The rationale for the request is: (i) need
                                                                                 the
for additional mitigation works to solidify the gains achieved through works implemented
in Dennery Village - one of the most vulnerable communities as prioritized by the
government; (ii)   the continuation of the successful small mitigation works, including
small works in response to last year's Hurricane Dean, and completion of a technical
audit of the small mitigation works financed under the DMPII; and (iii) the need to cover
some of the additional project management costs. The following sections describe the
request for this financing inmore detail.


11.Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Country Context

3. An important issue confronting Saint Lucia's development i s the vulnerability of its
population and economy to natural disasters, which can seriously impact the productive
sectors of the economy, such as agriculture and tourism, with particularly severe effects
on communities and households. Natural disasters impose large costs on the country's
fragile economy and exacerbate poverty levels. Saint Lucia was hit by Hurricane Allen
in 1980 and Tropical Storm Debbie in 1994. It has also been affected to a lesser degree
by several other storms that damaged neighboring countries, including most recently,
Hurricane Ivan in2004 and Hurricane Dean in 2007.

4. Since natural disasters recur at frequent intervals, preparedness and mitigation
measures are important to minimize their impact. In 1998, an Adaptable Program Loan
(APL - PAD No. 18655) was developed to support the physical and institutional efforts
of five member countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), in
their execution of disaster recovery and emergency preparednessmanagement activities.
Within the framework of the APL for the OECS Emergency Recovery and Disaster
Management Project (ERDMP), two individual lending operations were financed in Saint
Lucia. The first project, the Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project I(Project ID
P070430), was financed through an IBRD/IDA blend totaling US$ 6.27 million (Loan
44190-SLU/Credit 31510-SLU).        The Loan and Credit Agreements were signed on
December 11, 1998 and the project was effective on August 13, 1999. By October 31,



                                              1

2003, the project was closed, with all o f the project development objectives having been
realized. Despite considerable progress made under the Saint Lucia ERDMP, further
work was needed, which was successfully presented for financing under the Saint Lucia
Disaster Management Project 11.

Original Loan and Credit: Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project II

Project Background Original Project
                      -

5. Building on the foundation established by the successful Saint Lucia ERDMP, the
Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project 11, Project ID P086469, was financed through
an IDMBRD blend totaling US$7.5 million (Loadcredit 7238O-SLU/3936O-SLU). The
Loan and Credit Agreements were signed on July 29, 2004. The borrower agreed to co-
finance US$1.43 million, and the project came into effect on October 27, 2004, with a
scheduled closing date of December 31, 2009. Upon approval of the additional financing
request, this date will be extended for two years to December 31, 2011.

6. Project Objective: The objectives of Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project 11, as
stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, Report No. 27952) are: (a) to further
reduce the country's vulnerability to adverse natural events (such as hurricanes, floods
etc.) through investing in risk management activities; and (b) to strengthen the
institutional management and response capacity of the respective ministries and agencies
for disaster management through the provision of facilities, critical equipment, technical
assistance and training.     These objectives will be met by the strengthening o f the
country's: (a) infrastructure against the impact of adverse natural events through the
implementation o f physical mitigation measures; (b) response capacity in case o f adverse
natural events through capacity building, equipment purchase and investment in
emergency infrastructure; and (c) institutional capacity of the various ministries and
agencies dealing with disaster management through the provision of adequate facilities,
critical equipment, technical assistance and training.

Components, Scope, and Design of the Project OriginalKurrent Project
                                                  -

7. The project has four components: (i)    Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works; (ii)
Strengthening Emergency Preparedness and Response; (iii)         Institutional Strengthening;
and (iv) Project Management. The component activities are as follows:

8. Component 1 - (US$5.96 million). The first component finances physical prevention
and mitigation works, including: a) coastal protection works for Dennery Village; b)
drainage, river walls and slope stabilization activities; c) rehabilitation and reconstruction
of selected bridges; d) retrofitting of schools and health centers; e) procurement of
additional stock of gabion baskets, mattresses and geo-textiles; f) technical audits for the
coastal protection works at Dennery Village and other works components; and g) training
and capacity building for the Technical Services Division of the Ministry o f
Communication, Works, Transportation and Public Utilities (MCWT&PU).




                                             2

9. Component 2 - (US$1.38 million). The second component intends to strengthen Saint
Lucia' s emergency preparedness and response capacities through the following activities:
a) construction of the national Emergency Operations Center (EOC); b) construction of
additional Satellite Warehouses; c) installation of water tanks in shelters; d) technical
assistance and training for the National Emergency Management Office (NEMO); and e)
purchase o f specialized disaster equipment.

10. Component 3 - (US$0.42 million). The third component intends to strengthen the
ministries and agencies dealing with disaster management through the following
activities: a) building code training and sensitization; b) technical assistance in territorial
planning; c) vulnerability assessment and hazard mapping; and d) a study on vulnerability
and risk transfer of government assets.

11. Component 4 - (US$0.30 million). The fourth component intends to support project
management through the following actions: a) technical assistance to the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) through the recruitment of a project accountant, technical
engineer and support staff; and b) the execution o f technical audits.

12. Implementation: Overall project oversight i s now under the responsibility of the
Ministry of Economic Affairs,          Economic Planning,       Investment and National
Development (MOEA), with the day-to-day coordination ensured by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) housed at the same Ministry. The PCU i s responsible for
coordinating implementation agencies, procurement,            financial management and
disbursement activities, and reporting to the World Bank. The MCWT&PU contracts and
supervises the coastal protection works at Dennery Village and the majority of the small
mitigation works under Component 1. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE)
and the Ministryof Health, Wellness, Human Services, Family Affairs, Gender Relations,
and National Mobilization (MOH) are responsible for contracting and supervising
mitigation works under their respective jurisdictions.          NEMO i s responsible for
implementing Component 2. The Ministry of Physical Development (MOPD) and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) are responsible for implementing Component 3.                   The
respective line agencies have designated a contact person to work closely with the PCU
and to provide progress reports to the PCU on a quarterly basis.

Project Status

13. Overall implementation performance to date i s satisfactory. The results achieved
towards the realization of the development objectives are consistent with the expectations
set out inthe PAD. These achievements have been recorded in all InterimStatus Reports
(ISRs), including the most recent, dated January 29, 2008.

14. This project has benefited from successful implementation since its inception
(including compliance with loan and grant covenants). The outputs/outcomes and results
recorded in all the most recent ISRs show that its impact thus far has been consistent with
the expectations set out in the Project Appraisal Document. The ISR ratings, including
those for implementation progress (IP) and development objectives (DOs) have been



                                             3

consistently satisfactory. The fiduciary management system i s satisfactory and there are
no pending audit reports. There are no unresolved fiduciary, environmental, social or
other safeguard problems or outstanding credit covenants.              After three years of
implementation, a total of US$ 6.21 million (78% of the project funds) has been
disbursed. An additional US$ 1.43 million i s committed through signed contracts, which
increasesthe disbursed and committed amounts to US$ 7.64 million or 96% of the entire
project period amount.

Achievement of Project Objectives:

15. The first objective, strengthening of public infrastructure, is being achieved through
physical prevention and mitigation works.          Shore defense, local drainage and river
defense works have been completed in Dennery Village, which provided substantial
protection to the community during Hurricane Dean last year. Retrofitting works at four
schools identified to serve as emergency shelters have been completed, and designs to
retrofit three health centers have been finalized, with works to commence shortly.
Finally, two bridges have been strengthened and forty-one small mitigation works have
beencompleted and financed under the project.

16. The second objective, strengthening of national response capacity through an
improvement in the emergency preparedness and response capabilities of the various
responsible agencies, i s being achieved through the design and construction of several
emergency facilities - already seven satellite warehouses have been constructed and
stocked with emergency response supplies.              Despite some delays, the PCU, in
collaboration with the National Emergency Management Office (NEMO) and the
MOEA, has completed the necessary documents to construct an Emergency Operations
Center (EOC). The government has confirmed its intention to proceed with the current
approved designs and the works are being tendered. These plans have been reviewed by
the Bank's environmental specialist, a summary of which is included in the Mid Term
Review.

17. The third objective, strengthening the capacity of the Government to mitigate the
effects of natural disasters at the policy level, i s being achieved through the execution of
consultancies for building code sensitization, territorial planning, and hazard mapping.
The Vulnerability and Risk Transfer of Government Assets has been fulfilled under the
Caribbean CatastropheRiskInsurance Facility (CCRIF).

18. Safeguards: Satisfactory measures have been taken to ensure that safeguard issues
are properly addressed during project implementation. The project i s operating under an
environmental framework that was developed at project inception.              Environmental
measures are managed through a series of contract clauses listed in the Operations
Manual. According to the framework, if projects are identified and classified as B, the
project undertakes an appropriate Environmental Assessment (EA) in accordance with
Bank safeguard procedures. In the specific case of the flood protection works at
Dennery, an EA was developed and approved by the Bank.




                                              4

19. In terms of social safeguards, when consulting the community on the original
program of works, the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy was not triggered.
However, during implementation, work in Dennery Village revealed that an extension of
the berm at the Dennery River i s necessaryfor the newly constructed river defenses to be
fully effective. An engineering firm was contracted to conduct a topographical survey
that served as the basis for the revised design of the coastal protection works for the area.
An Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan was prepared, satisfactorily to the Bank, to
establish the procedures that would be put in place, in order to acquire land to
accommodate the extension of works.                These procedures have been followed
satisfactorily by the client (see Annex 3 for more details).

Proposed Proiect Rationale for Additional Financing
                   -
20. The GOSL officially requestedadditional financing from the World Bank on June 15,
2007 and on September 14, 2007. The request was based on the need for additional
mitigation work to solidify the gains madeinDennery village, and for the continuation of
the successful small mitigation works activities, which include other small works in
response to last year's Hurricane Dean, and the completion of a technical audit. The
following sections describe the request for this financing inmore detail.

21. Given the Government's commitment to disaster risk management, as evidenced by
investments it has been making in landslide risk mitigation and other related programs,
and given the satisfactory implementation of the current project, the team endorses the
Government's request for additional financing to the project. The Prime Minister has
indicated in a letter to the Country Director that one of his Administration's key priorities
i s to continue investments in disaster prevention and to use the remaining limited IDA
allocation funds to cover the additional financing of the Disaster Management project.

22. The activities proposed under the Additional Financing were reviewed in January
2008 during a pre-appraisal mission and represent a continuation of those carried out
under the DMPII. The proposed activities do not raise the environmental category of the
Project.

23. With this AF, the Government expects to scale up the following activities: (a) coastal
protection works for Dennery Village, including: i)creation of communal recreation
areas as part of the consolidation of the beach reclamation activity at Dennery Village,
and ii)extension of the works at Dennery River and Trou a L'eau Ravine to ensure
greater stability as a result of recent river erosion; (b) continuation of the small mitigation
works in the form of drainage, river walls and slope stabilization activities, including
small works in response to last year's Hurricane Dean and a technical audit; and (c)
project management.




                                                5

111.ProposedChanges

24. The proposed AF would support the original objectives of the DMPII and would
allow increasing achievements for the first two outcomes of the project: (a) percentage of
population with access to improved infrastructure; and (b) Dennery Village protected
from storm surge of a 10 year return. The project's outcome and output indicators have
been revised and are presentedin Section VI and Annex 4. The AF would scale up the
activities undertaken under Component1:Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works and
will allocate some of the additional project funds to Component4: Project Management.

25. The AF will be implemented using the same institutional framework, procurement,
and disbursement arrangements currently employed since these systems are performing
well, remain appropriate, and have the capacity to absorb the additional funds. Social
and environmental issues will for the most part apply the same parameters as in the
original project, in accordance with the World Bank's guidelines and in compliance with
safeguarding requirements.             The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be
updated to account for any potential cumulative impacts of additional works, such as the
extension of a berm or the elevation of the embankment from the Dennery Bridge, and
will reflect the triggering of the Bank's 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement Policy as a result
of the land acquisition that was done by the GOSL under the original project, and found
to be acceptable to the Bank. Although not envisioned originally, work in the area has
revealed that extension of this berm i s necessary for the newly constructed river defenses
to effectively protect the area against flooding.

26. The project's original closing date i s December 31, 2009.                       A two year project
extension i s proposed, bringing the closing date to December 31, 2011. Although most
activities are expected to be executed within 24 months from effectiveness, the team has
learned from its long engagement in the region that it i s advisable to allow additional
time in anticipation of delays incontracting activities - as seen for the construction of the
EOC. The Government has included this request for project extension in its proposal for
additional financing of the project.

Objective,Descriptionand Cost Activitiesfor Additional Financing
                                         -

27. ComDonent 1 - Physical Prevention and Mitigation Works: The estimated cost of
these activities i s US$3.345 million (of which US$2.71 million of IDA resources are
requested, representing 90% percent of the Additional Financing).

28. Subcomponent 1(a): Coastal Protection Dennery Village' - Beach Reclamation
Efsorts: The estimated cost of these activities i s US$360,000 (of which US$306,000 of
IDA resources are requested,representing 10.2% percent of the Additional Financing).




  The village of 5,000 inhabitants is located on the East coast and is one of the most vulnerable
communities as prioritizedby the Government. Dennery continues to play an important part inthis



                                                      6

29. In Dennery, the success of the sea defense construction led to 15,000 square feet of
reclaimed beach, more than originally envisioned - this process was also acceleratedby
the performance of the breakwaters during Hurricane Dean.                          The additional funds
allocated to this sub-component would support the creation of a communal recreation
area, such as a small public park, to prevent potential encroachment on this land by
unauthorized persons, as recommended by the technical audits. Three concepts for
landscape improvement were proposed to the local community - the community's
preferred plan depicts landscaping and recreational improvements, providing the public
with an open space for communal use. Terms of Referencefor the final technical designs
of the public space will be preparedby June 20,2008. Inthe meantime, the PCUwill also
work closely with partner agencies to ensure that land encroachment from the newly
reclaimed beach i s prevented. The PCU has hired a Land Surveyor to determine the
boundaries of the reclaimed land. The survey will be completedby June 30, 2008.

30. Subcomponent I(b): Dennery River and Trou A L'eau Ravine Works: The estimated
cost of the works i s US$470,000 (of which US$367,000 of IDA funds are requested,
representing 12%percent of the Additional Financing).

31. The additional funds allocated to this sub-component would support the revised scope
of works, which entails extension of a berm and elevation of the embankment from the
Dennery Bridge; 100 meters upstream to the mouth of the Dennery River, where the
existing gabion baskets have been installed.                    T h i s will protect an additional 50
households. Although not envisioned originally, work in the area has revealed that this
extension i s necessary for the newly constructed river defenses to effectively protect the
area against flooding. An engineering firm was contracted to conduct a topographical
survey that served as the basis for the revised design of the coastal ravine protection
works for the Dennery Village. An EIA was developed and approved by the Bank in
2004 as part of the original works. The team's environmental and social specialists have
checked that the new works proposed, including the Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan
done under the original project for this purpose, are in compliance with the Bank's
safeguardspolicies.

32. Subcomponent I(c): Small Mitigation Works - Integration of Hazard Mapping
Objective with Small Mitigation Works and Technical Audit: The estimated cost for these
activities i s US$2,515,000 (of which US$2,037,000 of IDA are requested, representing
68% percent of the Additional Financing).

33. The additional funds allocated to this sub-component would support the continuation
of investment in the drainage, river walls and slope stabilization works that i s of great
interest to the Government.            In addition, the MCWT&PU would like to conduct a
technical audit of the mitigation works executed under the original project and undertake



program and it i s a demonstration site (good case study) for replication of lessons learned. This will be an
example to show local communities that full protection against flooding i s possible.



                                                      7

a scientific analysis of current landslide vulnerabilities to determine the suitable or
appropriate investments. This analysis will be used to assess the benefits of the works
already completed and to predict slope stabilities in order to best plan and continue the
works. It will also estimate the potential costs of landslide and hurricane losses to
determine the benefits of local investment inlandslide and hurricane mitigationmeasures.
The proposal includes obtaining technical assistance from a specialized NGO who has
worked with the Saint Lucian Government on low-cost community-based strategies for
landslide mitigation. This component also includes small works for the recovery from
Hurricane Dean last year.


34. Component 4 - Proiect Management: The estimated cost of these activities i s
US$615,000 (of which US$290,000 of IDA are requested), representing 10% percent of
the Additional Financing).

35. Subcomponent 4(a): Project Management Costs Associated with a Two-year
Extension
In order to allow for sufficient time to complete the existing activities, a two-year
extension of the project i s necessary, including increasing management costs to finance
the implementation of the project. Although the proportion of resources (IDA and
GOSL) for project management i s greater than under the original project, this increase i s
considered necessary to maintain quality and ensure compliance with Bank safeguard
policies. The team believes that under the original project, resources necessary for
project management were underestimated, particularly since the monitoring of technical
work and safeguard issues has required very strong supervision from the PCU. To this
end, the PCU will continue to make the necessary arrangements to ensure that increased
emphasis i s placed on monitoring and evaluation as part of project supervision. This
supervision has been very satisfactory. The Government will provide the majority of
funds neededfor this component as part of the counterpart funds.


Amount of Additional FinancingRequested
       Original project total: US$8,930,000
    0  Additional financing requested: US$3,000,000

36. The total additional financing needed for the continuation of Physical Mitigation and
Protection Works activities i s US$3.96 million. The Government i s requesting that the
World Bank finance US$3 million of this sum in the form of IDA credits and has
committed US$960,000 of counterpart funds to complete the work.              The request
represents 40 percent of the original Loadcredit.

37. The GOSL has taken the appropriate measures to mobilize and commit necessary
counterpart resources to undertake the project, evident through their contribution of
US$1.43 million to the initial project financing and the commitment to provide




                                             8

counterpart financing for this request.2 The Borrower and implementing entities are
committed to this project as evidenced by the efficacy with which they have executed the
project activities.

Detailed Project Costs and Deviations
38. Below i s a breakdown of the original cost estimates, new actual costs and final
additional resource requirements:




IV. Consistencywith CAS

39. The project i s in line with the second pillar of the OECS CAS (Report 33118-LAC) -
reducing vulnerability, by promoting greater social inclusion and strengthening disaster
risk management. The main objective of the project i s to further reduce the country's
vulnerability to adverse natural events, such as hurricanes and floods, through investment
inriskmitigation activities.

40. The CAS highlights that the cost of natural disasters to individual countries can be
substantially mitigated.    The adoption o f good building practices, complying with
international standards, can significantly lower the level of impact. Donor finance for
mitigation measures, in infrastructure in small states subject to repeated natural disasters



 Note that counterpartcommitment as apercentageof project funds being requestedhas increasedfrom
     16%to 18.5%.



                                               9

can have a very high pay-off. Hurricane Ivanprovides a good example: the only schools
that were left untouched in Grenada were the two built with Bank assistance, where
rigorous attention was paid to hurricane-proof standards.


V. Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project

41. The activities proposed under the Additional Financing represent a continuation of
those already appraised and carried out under the DMPII. InJanuary 2008, a team visited
Saint Lucia on a mission to undertake the identification and appraisal o f the proposedAF.
The Team met extensively with the PCU and all the relevant Government agencies, and
attended the Steering Committee meeting, to identify and appraise the proposed scaling-
up of the project.

Lessons learned

42. The current project has been implemented effectively and i s part of long-term effort
by Saint Lucia to engage in Disaster Risk Management. The AF i s the continuation of
the second phase of a Bank project on disaster management in the country, an
engagement spanning over 10years already. One o f the lessons learnedfrom this project,
as can be seen in the EOC, i s the importance o f anticipating sufficient time for activities
that involve design, mobilization of local contractors, and execution o f works.

Institutional arrangements

43. The institutional arrangements under the original DMPII will all remain in place.
Overall project implementation will continue to be managed by the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), which has been satisfactorily implementing the project to date, and which is
housed at the MOEA. This PCU i s also simultaneously managing three other World
Bank projects sati~factorily.~

Economic appraisal

44. The activities to be financed are a scale-up of current activities and will generate
additional economic benefits. As specified inthe PAD for the current project, a detailed
economic cost-benefit analysis was conducted to determine the economic viability o f the
Dennery component, as it i s the most significant component financed by the current
project, representing approximately 50% of all physical works to be constructed. The
analysis yielded an economic rate of return of 23%, and an economic net present value of
US$ 1.45 million based on a discount rate o f 12%, which represents the opportunity cost
of capital in Saint Lucia.            The proposed investments in Dennery as part of


  With regards to strengtheningof the PCU, provisionhas beenmadefor the hiringof an Accountant/
InternalAuditorunder the HIV/AIDS PreventionandControl Project. Also, includinginthe staffingplan
for the PCUis the hiringof a DeputyProjectCoordinator/ ProcurementSpecialistto be financedunder the
DMPII.



                                                  10

subcomponents l(a) and l(b) of this AF are estimated at US$830,000, which i s less that
the estimatednet present value for the activities inDennery at the time of appraisal of the
original project.   Even if no additional benefits would be expected, the Dennery
component would still be economically feasible.

45. Apart from the economic evaluation carried out for the Dennery village coastal
protection works, no economic analysis was warranted for the other physical civil works
components of the original project, due to the small individual investments amounts
required for their implementation, which were generally less than US$500,000. The
works to be financed under component l(c) are also expected to be of less than
US$500,000 each, and the same approachas inthe original project will be followed. The
small mitigation works such as gabion baskets have proven to be an effective easy and
labor-intensive way to implement drainage works.

Technicalappraisal

46. The identification, selection and implementation of activities under Component 1will
be based on procedures identified in the updated DMPII operational manual. As in the
original project, they will be designed and executed according to technical and fiduciary
standards satisfactory to the Bank.

Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements

47. Financial Management Arrangements. The AF will use the same financial
management and disbursement frameworks as the original project. The last financial
managementsupervision mission found the overall FMcapacity satisfactory. Component
1 (to be increased with the AF) will be implemented by the MCWT&PU and the PCU,
under the MOEA, as in the original project.           The conclusion of the Financial
Management Assessment (FMA) i s that the overall project arrangements are adequate
and satisfy the Bank's requirements under OPD3P10.02 to provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the execution of the project.

48. Desk review of supervision documents ratifies the conclusion above on the overall
FM capacity. The external audits are performed by the Office of the Director of Audit,
the Supreme Audit Institution for Saint Lucia, and the last one submitted corresponds to
the period April lSt,2006 - March 31st, 2007. Audit reports are submitted within the due
date, incompliance with the Loadcredit Agreement's. Audit assignments are conducted
in accordancewith International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI)
Auditing Standards and the World Bank Guidelines. The Statement of Sources and Uses
of Funds are prepared on a cash basis of accounting and the Financial Statements are
preparedinaccordance with Government Accounting Policies, ina satisfactory manner.

49. The auditors have issued unqualified (clean) opinions on the project's financial
statements, the Statement of Expenditures (SOE), the Special Account, and the internal
control structure. The audit team concluded that: 1) the Project Sources and Uses of
Funds Statement presents fairly the financing and expenditures of the project; 2) the



                                            11

expenditures reported were eligible for financing and loan funds have been used only for
Project purposes; 3) the audit team did not discover any weakness that would be material
inrelation to the financial statements; and 4) the internal control structure for the period
under review was found to be fair.

50. Disbursement arrangements are found to be reasonable and they will remain the
same. The project will continue using the same Designated Account/Special Account
usedunder the old Credit and the current IBRD Loan (Bank of Saint Lucia Limited). The
Ceiling Amount for the Designated Account will be Variable. Disbursement Methods to
be used, as in the original project, are: Advance, Reimbursement, Direct Payment and
Special Commitment Payments.

ProcurementMethodologiesand Framework

51. General: Procurement will be handled by the PCU in the same way as the current
project, under the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement, including the
application of the Bank's most recent guidelines for procurement and sanctions to the
expectednew contracts under the Additional Finan~ing.~Close to 82% of the Additional
Financing will be used for small civil works such as: Coastal Protection Dennery Village
- Beach Reclamation Efforts; Dennery River and Trou A L'eau Ravine Works;
Integration of Hazard Mapping Objective with Small Mitigation works and Technical
Audit. About 8% of the funds will beusedfor the financing of reimbursable expenses for
an NGO that will provide technical assistance (TA) in the area of integration of hazard
mapping objectives with small mitigation works and technical audit. About 10% of the
additional funding will be used to cover PCU project management activities during the
remaining year of the project and its two year extension with the additional financing.
Since all of the civil works, TA and project management activities are continuations of
activities under DMPII, there will not be changes in the procurement methods and
thresholds already establishedinthe Loan and Credit Agreements.

52. Assessment of the Agency's Capacity to Implement Procurement: The PCU i s
satisfactorily staffed by a Project Coordinator who also acts as a Procurement Specialist,
and Administrative Unit of two staff members, an Accounting Unit of three staff
members, and two Procurement staff members. Capacity building activities and training
to support and strengthenthe PCU's administrative and financial management skills were
financed through the ongoing project. Procurement activities are being implemented
smoothly in a manner acceptable to the Bank. It i s therefore recommended to keep the
same team inplace.

53. Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project will follow the same
procedures as for works procured for the current project and according to the methods



4 WorldBank's "Guidelines:ProcurementunderIBRDLoans and IDA Credits" datedMay 2004, and
"Guidelines:Selection andEmploymentof Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" datedMay 2004, both
versionsupdatedinOctober 2006.



                                              12

and thresholds identified in the original project. Procurement of works would be carried
out, as agreedby the Bank, by usingthe standardbidding documents (SBD) for shopping,
NCB and ICB, as reflectedinthe Operations Manual.

54. Selection of Consultants: The selection of consultants will follow the same
procedures and will be done according to the same methods and thresholds identified in
the original project.

55. Procurement Plan: The Borrower has updated the procurement plan for project
implementation, including the additional activities, which provides the basis for the
procurement methods. This planwas agreed between the Borrower and the Project Team
on January 22, 2008 and i s available in the project files. It will also be available on the
Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements in institutional capacity. Annex 2 shows a summary of the agreed
Procurement Plan for this AF.

56. Frequency of Procurement Supervision: In addition to the prior review to be carried
out from Bank offices, the results of the capacity assessment of the ImplementingAgency
has recommended one supervision mission every 12 months to carry out post review of
procurement actions and hands-on training.

Environment & Social Safeguards

57. General: The project has been placed under environmental category "B" in
accordance with OP 4.01 which requires the preparation of an Environmental
Management Plan. This plan, prepared by the GOSL and cleared by the Bank for the
original DMPII, will be updated and incorporated into the updated Operational Manual
prior to the start of the additional works. The Operation Manual also sets the criteria for
the need and extent of environmental assessments for the small works projects. These
same criteria will be followed.

58. Additional works contemplated under the extension of the project are of the same
nature as those currently underway and no mayor change in the safeguards framework i s
anticipated. However, the EIA will be updated to account for any potential cumulative
impacts of additional works involving the extension of a berm and elevation of
embankment from the Dennery Bridge. Inaddition, since the works at Dennery as part of
the AF will trigger the application of the InvoluntaryResettlement Safeguards Policy (OP
4.12), the Land Acquisition Framework satisfactorily adopted during the original project
has been updated and will be applied for works under the AF as required. No physical
relocation or loss of a preexisting shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, or loss of
income sources or means of livelihood, resulting from an involuntary taking of land
occupied before the beginning of the project, i s foreseen. However, the Bank's safeguard
policies will apply to any activities unexpectedly resulting in involuntary resettlement
(see Annex 3 for more details).




                                             13

59. Scope and coverage: The works identified were envisioned inthe original project and
are within the same scope and coverage. Works completed in Dennery under the current
project were designed after extensive community consultation and the development of an
Environmental Impact Assessment.        The same procedures will be followed in the
additional phase. The works completed so far improved coastal protection and reduced
economic losses.

60. Institutional capacity and lessons learned: as summarized in the Mid Term Review,
and in Annex 3 to this Project Paper, the Borrower has successfully implemented past
and on-going operations with the Bank and i s well aware of the Bank's policy on
environmental impact. The review shows that implementation of the project and the EA
framework has been very satisfactory; the project has met or exceeded all environmental
safeguard expectations. The findings of this assessment are summarized in Annex 3 and
are included in the updated ISDS. In addition, the team's environmental specialist has
monitored closely the implementation of this framework and has participated in every
mission since project inception.


VI. ExpectedOutcomes

61. In view of the experience from project implementation, the team has revised the
Results Framework and the Arrangements for Results Monitoring to make it more
concrete and measurable. The expected total project outcomes are the following: (a)
Percentage of population with access to improved infrastructure; (b) Dennery Village
protected from storm surge of a 10 year return; (c) National Emergency Management
Office (NEMO) operational in a new Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and with an
updated Emergency Response Plan; (d) Population with access to shelters with
acceptable water systems and with access to emergency equipment throughout the
territory; and (e) at least 5 contractors using improved building standards.          The
Additional Financing will contribute to the incremental achievement of the first two
expected outcomes of the project. Increased emphasis will be placed on monitoring and
evaluation as part of project supervision.


VII. Benefitsand Risks

62. Benefits. The AF will generate the same type of benefits as the original project, with
expanded coverage of the number of people throughout the island.

63. Risks. The level of risk associated with the Additional Financing i s substantially
lower than the one prevailing at the time of project approval due to the successful
implementation of Disaster Management Project I and the ongoing satisfactory
implementation of the Disaster Management Project I1that provide reassurance that the
implementation of the Additional Financing activities should proceed without major
delays. The following matrix lists the risks identified and describes mitigation measures
taken thus far:



                                            14

64.Risks

                                                                                          Residual
                                                                                          RiskRating

                                                                                          M
   by-delays in prephation of technical designs f o r communal area are in the
   engineering     designs    and advanced stage, while technical designs for extension
   Terms of Reference (TOR) of the berm at the Dennery Bridge have been
   for works andTA.                completed. Terms of Reference for the TA and for
                                   other works have been completed, at least in draft
                                   form.

   Inadequate     staffing    and After more than 3 years of implementation, the PCU M
   experience inthe PCU.           functions   smoothly     and i s   fully staffed with
                                   individuals who have experience with the successful
                                   implementation of two projects. Staff at PCU and, to
                                    a minor extent at MCWTPU, are now trained and
                                   experienced in Bank procurement, which should
                                   minimize delays. The Borrower has agreed to
                                   maintain staff with the same level of qualification for
                                   this Project.

                                   As highlighted in Section V, the last financial
                                   management supervision mission found the overall
                                   capacity satisfactory. In addition, the auditors have
                                   issued unqualified (clean) opinions on the project's
                                   financial statement, the Statement of Expenditures
                                    (SOE), the Special Account/Designated Account, and
                                   the internal control structure.

   Project     complexity       - There have been limited project implementation N
   challenge    of   coordinating problems      caused by      inter-agency coordination
   implementation          efforts challenges. The operational manual for the Disaster
   amongst several government Management Project I1 was designed based upon a
   agencies:                       previously existing and satisfactory modus operandi
                                   and has very clear          agency level roles and
                                   responsibilities. The Additional Financing would
                                   involve fewer institutions, thereby decreasing the risk
                                   even further. The Steering Committee supervising
                                   project implementation i s effective.

   isk Rating(includingmitigatingactions): H=HighRisk, S=SubstantialRisk, M=ModestRisk,
   N=Negligibleor Low Risk.




                                             15

VIII. Financial Terms and Conditionsfor the Additional Financing

65. Standard IDA Credit terms apply to this Credit. The financial management and
disbursement arrangements for the Saint Lucia Disaster Management Project I1will be
equally applicable for the Additional Financing. The current financial management and
disbursement arrangements for the original project are adequate to handle the financial
transactions of the Additional Financing.




                                          16

                                  Annex 1: Project Costs



                                       Xdditiorial IDA  Additional
                                                         cms1
                                                         ----        .4dditional Total

PrqjectCosts

Component 1:PhysicalPreventionand
Mitigation Works                           2.710         0.635            3.345
a) Coast Protection Dennery Village -
BeachReclamationEfforts                    0.306         0.054            0.360
b) Dennery River andTrouA L'eau
Ravine Works                               0.367         0.103            0.470
c) Small MitigationWorks - Integration
of HazardMapping Objective with
Small Mitigation Works and Technical       2.037         0.478            2.515
Audit

Component4: ProjectManagement              0.290         0.320            0.615

FinancingPlan
                                  IDA       3.00
                            Borrower                      0.96
                                 Total                                     3.96




                                           17

   Annex 2: Summaryof AdditionalFinancingProcurementPlan(US$ equivalent)




 Figuresinbold are the amounts to be financed by the Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, services of
contractedstaff of the project management office, training, TA services, andincremental operatingcosts
relatedto (i)managing the project, and ($re -lending project funds to local governmentunits.
 Not Bank Financed



Thresholds for Procurement Arrangements and Prior Review are the same as for the
original loan and credit




                                                    18

                              Annex 3: Safeguard Policy Issues

The project has been placed under environmental category "B" in accordance with OP
4.01 which requires the preparation of an Environmental Management Plan. This plan,
prepared by the GOSL and cleared by the Bank for the original DMPII, will be updated
and incorporated into the updated Operational Manual prior to the start of the additional
works.

Additional works contemplated under the extension of the project are of the same nature
as those currently underway and no mayor change in the safeguards framework i s
anticipated. However, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) will be updated to
account for any potential cumulative impacts of additional works involving the extension
of a berm and elevation of embankment from the Dennery Bridge. In addition, since the
works at Dennery as part of the AF will trigger the application of the Involuntary
Resettlement Safeguards Policy (OP 4.12),            the Land Acquisition Framework
satisfactorily adoptedduring the original project has beenupdated and will be applied for
works under the AF as required. The environmental framework inthe Operation Manual
also sets the criteria for the need and extent of environmental assessments for the small
works projects. These same criteria/ screening procedures will be followed. The PCU
will use this to assure that future works proposed are in compliance with Bank's
safeguards procedures. In the case that activities are found to increase the project's
category, an Environmental Assessment will be done.

Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis

As in the original project, the project will be carried out throughout the island of Saint
Lucia. Site selection for small works has beenbasedon the following criteria:
(i) riskexposuretonaturaldisasters(flood,winddamage,landslips,etc);
   Specific
(ii)Strategic importance of infrastructure at risk; and
(iii)
    Probable Community participation inthe works.

Scope and coverage remains unchanged: In terms of environmental issues, the project's
environmental specialist has participated in every mission since project inception. The
specialist has confirmed that the scope of work does not exceed that of the original
project. The AF will continue to support activities in areas that were already covered by
the project's original DMPII. In addition to operating in the same zones, the AF scope
and the type of AF financed activities remain unchanged. The AF will also continue to
support activities in Dennery; a village of 5,000 inhabitants, which i s located on the east
coast and i s vulnerable to floods.

Environmental and SocialSafeguards Specialists
  MrGeraldMeier (LCSUW)
  MsKimberly Vilar (LCSSO)




                                             19

  6. SafeguardPoliciesTriggered                                             Yes           No
  EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP4.01)                                        X
I NaturalHabitats(OP/BP4.04)                                           I               1 x 1

  PestManagement(OP4.09)                                                                    X
  PhvsicalCulturalResources(OP/BP4.11)                                       X

  InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP4.12)                                         X
  Safetyof Dams(OP/BP4.37)                                                                  X
  ProjectsonInternationalWaterways (OP/BP7.50)                                              X
  Proiects inDisDutedAreas (OP/BP7.60)                                                      X


  There was a full review of the implementation of the environmental management
  framework (EMF) in the Mid Term Review (MTR),which indicated that the project has
  met or exceeded all environmental safeguard expectations. In summary, the findings of
  this assessment were the following:

  General Environmental Per3Formance of Projects under DMP II - No problems were
  encountered with implementing the EMF.                           The PCU and the Ministry of
  Communications and Works have consistently demonstrated a commitment to the
  implementation of project environmental policies and guidelines both in spirit and in
  action. The roles and responsibilities for authorizing and supervising the project financed
  works, including the guidelines and the screening process, have been clearly defined and
  applied. For example, when engineers realized that without additional work on the
  private landupstream there would be continued flooding, the PCUimmediatelycontacted
  the Bank, so as to address the issue of encroachment on private lands first. The team's
  social specialist beganto work with the Government to guide them on this issue.5

  The environmental issues will remain specific to local areas since the AFs Component 1
  will focus on small physical prevention and mitigation activities. The rehabilitation from
 Hurricane Dean will be limited to small works necessary for rapid economic and social
 recovery. The environmental screening methods for environmental impact and cultural
 property currently employed under the DMPII will be applied during the identification
  and selection process of all the works implemented under the AF.

  As mentionedpreviously, the original project did not trigger the Involuntary Resettlement
  SafeguardPolicy, as the acquisition of land was not originally envisioned. However, the
 need to extend the berm from the Dennery River Bridge was identified during
 implementation. This extension required the acquisition of a portion of seven plots of



   It should be notedthat the encroachment on private lands is only along the Dennery River bank and no
       structures or facilities are located inthe area. Additionally, no actual resettlement was required and
       since the first meeting, local residents seemed anxious to have the works proceed as their properties
       would be protectedfrom flooding as well.



                                                        20

privately owned land. Although no physical relocation of housing units was necessary,
nor was there any need for livelihood restoration or social assistance, the involuntary
taking of land triggered the Banks 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement Policy. The PCU, with
the assistance of the team's social development specialist, has been working on the
implementation of the Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan the PCU drafted in February
2007, on behalf of the government. A fundamental requirement of the plan was for the
land owners to be fairly compensated, before the beginning of the physical extension
works, inaccordance with national legislation and Bank policy.


As of January 2008, three out of the seven land owners have received their due
compensation. The four pending paymentspertain to absenteeland owners living outside
Saint Lucia. The Government of Saint Lucia i s in contact with these landowners and will
continue to work with them as needed to carry out the land registration process. The
Government has opened, in the care of the High Court, a sundry deposit account in the
General Ledger, and a savings account at the Bank of Saint Lucia, to guarantee the
availability of compensation funds for the remaining landowners for a period of 12 years.
A confirmation of the disbursement of the money into the accounts was sent on June 4,
2008. The Land Acquisition Framework mandates that the works on the newly acquired
lands cannot proceed until the Bank receives confirmation of the disbursement of
compensation funds for the absentee landowners into a bank account to guarantee
payment to these landowners. In the unforeseen case that the design for the extension
works i s modified and additional land acquisition becomes necessary, this acquisition
will follow the same proceduresestablishedinthe Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan.


Likewise, in respect to the beach reclamation sub-project under Component 1.a. no
physical relocation or loss of a preexisting shelter, loss of assets or access to assets, or
loss of income sources or means of livelihood i s foreseen. However, the Bank's policies
will apply to other activities resulting in involuntary resettlement, which in the judgment
of the Bank, are (a) directly and significantly related to the Bank-assisted project, (b)
necessary to achieve its objectives as set forth in the project documents, and (c) carried
out, or plannedto be carried out, contemporaneously with the project.


Other than these safeguard considerations, the AF i s estimated to produce a positive
social impact, as it will continue to strengthen the local participation in the disaster risk
management system. This will be the case particularly inthe specialized NGO's low-cost
community-based landslide risk prevention work, where the community i s closely
involved in the identification, preparation and execution of local risk management
projects.

Potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities inthe
project area

Inthe case of the Dennery coastal defenses,as with the original project, expectedimpacts
from activities include a reduction in catastrophic property loss from severe storm



                                              21

damage, reduced coastal erosion, and less pressure for relocation along the margins of the
adjacent river watersheds. The beachreclamation area and the creation of a public space
will restore the community's principal recreation area, which will generally improve local
quality life. These impacts will be limited to the Dennery Bay area; due to the fact that
the bay i s a wholly closed hydraulic system. The relevant screening and assessment
procedureswill be used.

Measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues

Dennery Village Flood Protection Works: An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
dated February 22, 2004 was prepared for the original project, including a social
assessment and stakeholders' workshop.           The work program was developed in
consultation with the Dennery community, so as to minimize environmental degradation.
The EIA showed that there was a strong demand for the project from the Dennery
residents who are at risk of experiencing damage to their property from sea swells, storm
waves and floods. According to the original study, many of the residents place a high
social value on living in their present location, which would be further protected with the
additional works.    The success of the original activities was exemplified when it
protected the community successfully during Hurricane Dean last year, and i s also
evident by the request for Additional Financing.

As highlighted above, an Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan - required for the
acquisition of private lands involved in the extension of the ravine works in the Dennery
River - was developed in February 2007 with the oversight of the project's social
specialist. This plan was submitted by the GOSL and approved by the Bank, and the
requirements are being met. As per Saint Lucian Law, all land in question i s now owned
by the GOSL. The land acquisition required pertained only to those lands adjacent to the
Dennery River, which would be involved in the river defense works. Although the need
for land acquisition triggered the Involuntary Resettlement policy OP 4.12, this
"involuntary taking of land" did not, however, give rise to any physical relocation or loss
of preexisting shelters, loss of assets or access to assets, or loss of income sources or
means of livelihood.

Small Mitigation Works: Preparation of the original project included preparation of an
EA to identify key elements that must be considered for project location and design.
These guidelines and screeningprocesses will be capable of detecting possible impacts in
archeological or historical sites and ensuring compliance with OP 11.03. The EA
included inthe Operation Manual of the original project is applicable for this work in the
additional phase and includes:

    a) A PCU project implementation procedure for environmental management of
       small works activities.     This requires special attention based on the Bank's
       environmental and social safeguard policies and integrates requirements
       promulgated under Saint Lucian law.
    b) Environmental guidelines and screening process describing procedures to be
       followed to comply with the Bank's safeguards policies; those guidelines result in



                                              22

        the incorporation of contract clauses to be included in contacts issued under the
        small mitigation works activities. This process applies to small works activities,
        such as the construction or repair of retention walls, river wall protections, etc.

Borrower Cauacitv: The PCU has successfully implemented past and on-going operations
with the Bank and is well aware of the Bank's policy on environmental impact. As
recorded inthe MidTerm Review, implementation has beenvery satisfactory.

Key stakeholders and mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies

The key stakeholders are the residents of the communities benefiting from AF
investments in physical prevention and mitigation activities. They have received tailor-
made safeguard tutorials and are aware of the Bank's policies vis-&-vis informational
sessions provided by the project's environmental specialist.

Dennery Village: The primary beneficiaries will be the Dennery Community, local
authorities, and local civil society; those that have been closely involved in the
development of the proposed mitigation measures. Extensive public consultations were
held with the community, resultingin the development of the engineering approach that
was chosen for the original project. The additional mitigation works will solidify the
achievements of the Dennery village. The works completed so far have improved coastal
protection and reduced economic losses.

The team worked with the PCU to assure that consultations were conducted in preparing
the Abbreviated Land Acquisition Plan. These consultations revealed a need for a
continuous dialogue with affected land-owners.              Since then, the Community
Development Officer for the town of Dennery has been working satisfactorily as a liaison
between the PCU and the affected people, to ensure that they are well-informed about the
compensationprocess and the scope of the proposed works.

The EIA will be updated to account for any potential cumulative impacts of additional
works, such as the extension of the berm or the elevation of embankment from the
Dennery River Bridge, and will be disclosed prior to the start of the additional works.

Additional Small Mitigation Works: These have generally been identified at the request
of local communities. Inmany cases, works will be implemented with strong community
participation and will result in the strengthening of existing works against severe storm
events.   The proposal includes the provision of technical assistance by an NGO
specializing in low-cost community-based disaster risk management and landslide
mitigation, with previous experience with the Saint Lucian Government.

If the screening procedure reveals that a safeguard might be triggered, the review
requirements under Bank policy and Saint Lucian law will be activated, under PCU
implementation procedures, which require public consultation with affected groups. As
these projects relate to the prevention and mitigation of flood and hurricane impacts, the



                                             23

stakeholders include all levels of society, but particularly benefit the economically
disadvantagedsegments that cannot provide for their own protection.




                                         24

                         Annex 4: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
            Saint Lucia DisasterManagement Project 11: Additional Financing

                                       Results Framework

Project Development               Project OutcomeIndicators               Useof OutcomeInformation
Objectives




(a) to further reduce the          (a) Percentageof population with       To ensure that population is made
vulnerability of infrastructure to access to improved infrastructure      less vulnerable to adverse natural
naturaldisasters (hurricanes,                                             events.
floods, etc) through the           (b) DenneryVillage protected from
implementation of physical         storm surge of a 10year return
mitigation measures,
improvements andrepairs; and       (c) National Emergency Management      To ensure that the facilities and
                                   Office (NEMO) operational innew        humanresourcesputinplace under
                                   Emergency Operations Center (EOC)      the project are adequateto reduce
(b) to strengthen the              and with updated Emergency Response    or manage disaster risk
institutional management and       Plan.                                  and to respond to future
responsecapacity of the                                                   emergencies.
respective ministries and          (d)Populationwith access to shelters
agencies for disaster              with acceptable water systems and with
management through the             access to emergency equipment
provision of facilities, critical  throughout the territory
equipment, technical assistance
and training.                      (e) At least 5 contractors using
                                   improved buildingstandards

Intermediate Outcomes per          Intermediate OutcomeIndicators         Useof Intermediate Outcome
Component                                                                 Monitoring


Component1:                                                               To track quarterly progress of the
PhysicalPreventionand                                                     physical works undertaken
MitigationWorks




                                                 25

(i)Protectionworks at Dennery     Contract milestones achieved for         To track progress of physical work
[(a) Beach Reclamation Effort -   works completed at Dennery               undertaken to protect Dennery
construction of a public area for Village.                                 Community
community use, to prevent
illegal settlement on newly       15,000 squarefeet of Community area      To assess area protected from
regained beach land; and (b)      organized inthe reclaimedland            future invasion
Dennery River Ravine Works
(river walls) - Further the       Mobilizationof a community-based
protection of Dennery Village     committee to monitor, maintain, and
against flooding by extending     manage the community area, including
the reinforcement of the          preventing illegal settlements
embankment upstreamuntil
Dennery Bridge (100 meters)]      100meters of riverbank protected         To track progress of physical work
                                                                           undertaken


(ii)Reconstruction of 2 bridges   2 bridges completed and contract
                                  milestones achieved


(iii)Drainage, river walls &      75 minor works completed by class
slope Stabilization
[Small Mitigation Works -         Good practice guidelines on community
Integration of Hazard Mapping     low-cost landslide and Hurricanerisk
Objective with Small              mitigation measuressubmitted to at
MitigationWorks and               least 5 communities
Technical Audit]



(iv) Retrofitting of schools      4 schools hurricane resistant

(v) Retrofitting of health        3 healthcenters retrofittedfor hurricane
centers                           resistance/flooding




                                                26

Component Two:
StrengtheningEmergency
Preparedness& Response

(i)Constructionof EOC and       EOC and CentralWarehouse               To track quarterly progress on the
CentralWarehouse                completed.                             completion of various sub-
                                                                       components for emergency
(ii)Construction of additional  11Warehouses completed                 preparedness andresponse
Satellite Warehouses                                                   including equipment pre-
                                                                       positioning, installation of
(iii)Installationof water tanks 5 Water tanks installed                command structures, training, and
inshelters                                                             institutionaldevelopment to assure
                                                                       key milestones are met.
(iv) TA, planning and Training  Emergency plan completed; Shelter
for NEMO                        manuals completed; Shelter regulations
                                completed; 80 persons trained (shelter
                                mgmt., telecommunications & supply
                                mgmt.completed); National Emergency
                                ResponsePlancompleted.


(v) Specialized disaster        Strongboxes and additional
equipment                       Communications equipment pre-
                                positionedin satellite warehouses and
                                EOC
ComponentThree:
InstitutionalStrengthening

(i)BuildingCode Trainingand     100inspectors and staff trained on     To assess quarterly progress inthe
territorial TA                  buildingcodes andterritorial planning  strengthening of planningand
                                                                       enforcement institutions that
                                4 Assessments hazard mapping           provide vulnerability planningand
(ii)Vulnerability Assessment    completed                              buildingcode development and
and HazardMapping                                                      enforcement to assure effectiveness
                                                                       of the strengthening program.
(iii) onRiskTransferof
     Study                      Study on risk transfer completed and
Government Assets               reviewed (completed under the CCRIF)




                                             27

                  3
                  Y




 -3   3C    -a
             3
 4    4     4C




 P
 8




                            z
                            m




                  8


 i5
tyr,    I    I    I    I




t            I         I

8     e,
      B                     5      V I v )
                                   5    6
v)    LA    VI
            $    LA
                 8    LA
                      5     v)




      e,
      B                     ti
      LA    v)
            4    LA
                 8    LA
                      8     VI




e,
B     e,
      5     8    8     8    e,


v)    v)    v)   v)   v)    rn


            8                v)

            3         m
                      r-




8
3          0r-        iD
                      0            m    m




           0          0
           In         IC<          N    -




                                              B
                                              % $ $ E?-

              -       0
                      N




                    In

m
B  m
   B     B    B
        v1   m




             2        *     4
              Y)




                   0
  0CQ              0  *



z
a 3

                    Y  0

              Annex 5: Project Processing Schedule and Team Composition


                                 Project Processing Schedule

                        ProjectSchedule                            Planned          Actual

Pre-Appraisal                                                  01/26/2008       01/26/2008

                                                              I
Negotiations                                                  [06/04/2008       06/03/2008-
                                                                                06/04/2008

Approval                                                       07/15/2008

PlannedDate of Effectiveness                                   08/30/2008




                                      TeamComposition




SeyoumSolomon                              1Consultant, LCSPT

GeraldMeier                                 Consultant, EnvironmentalSpecialist

Kimberly War                                Consultant, Social Specialist

Yao Wottor                                  Procurement Specialist

Miguel-Santiagoda Silva Oliveira            Finance Officer

Maritza Rodriguez                           FinancialManagementSpecialist

RolandeSimone Pryce                         ET Consultant,LEGLA

UlrichMyboto                                ET Consultant, LCSUW

Ana Daza                                    LanguageProgramAssistant

Maricarmen Esquivel                         Junior ProfessionalAssociate




                                             31


